JW -4.3- Cre | 


creams (3297S F 
JPL Publication 87-35 49 4 
(WASA-CR- 1826 86) THE SPRING 1985 HIGH w88-21577 


PRECISION BASELINE TEST OF THE JPL GPS-BASED 

GEODETIC SYSTEM Final Report (Jet 

Propulsion Lab.) 79 p CSCL O8E Uaclas 
< G3/43 01348754 


The Spring 1985 High Precision 
y Baseline Test of the JPL GPS-Based 
1 ¥ Geodetic System 

A Final Report 


. John M. Davidson 
4 Catherine L. Thornton 
, Scott A. Stephens 
" Geoffrey Blewitt 
: Stephen M. Lichten 
i. OjarsJ.Sovers 
oe: Peter M. Kroger 
i Lisa L. Skrumeda 
i & James S. Border 
Ruth E. Neilan 
Charles J. Vegos 
i 2 Bobby G. Williams 
> Jeffrey T. Freymuelier 4 ; 
‘¢ Timothy H. Dixon 
William G. Melbourne | 


November 15, 1987 


TECHNICAL REPORT STANDARD TITLE PAGE 
1. Report No. 87-35 2. Government Accession No. | 3. Recipient’s Coteleg No. 


Sn 7 


4. Title and Subtitle 5. Report Dete 

The Spring 1985 High Precision Baseline Test of the November 15, 1987 

JPL GPS-Based Geodetic System 6. Performing Organization Code 
A Final Report 


7. Author) John M. Davidson, Catherine L. Thornton, . 
Scott A. Stephens, Geoffrey Blewitt, Stephen M. Lichen 


9. Performing Organization Neme and Address 10. Work Unit No. 


JET PROPULSION LABORATOKY 

California Institute of Technology 11. Contract or Grant No. 
4800 Oak Grove Drive NAS7-918 
Pasadena, California 91109 13. Type of Report and Period Covered 


External Report 


8. Performing Organization Report No. 


12. Sponsoring ~gency Nome and Address JPL Publication 


RATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION 
14. Sponsering Agency Code 
“ashingten, BS. S0505 RES BP-676-59-31-20-30 


15. Supplementary Notes (Authors, continued) Ojars J. Sovers, Peter M. Kroger, Lisa L. 
Skrumeda, James S. Border, Ruth E. Neilan, Charles J. Vegos, Bobby C. Williams, 
Jeffrey T. Freymueller, Timothy H. Dixon, William G. Melbourne 


16. Abstrect 

The Spring 1985 High Precision Baseline Test (HPBT) of the JPL GPS-Based Geodetic 
Measuring System was conducted between March 28, 1985, and April 5, 1985. It involved 
over a dozen collaborating institutions, with organization and coordination under 
NASA/JPL leadership, and vas designed to meet a number of objectives. Foremost among 
these was the demonstration of a level of accuracy of 1-2:10’, or better, for baselines 
ranging in length up to several hundreds of kilomweters. 

These objectives were all met with e« high degree of success, with respect to the 
demonstration of system accuracy in particular. The results from six baselines ranging 
in length from 70 to 729 km were examined for repeatability and, in the case of three 
baselines, vere compared to results from colocated VLBI systems. Repeatability was 
found to be 5:10© (RMS) for the north baseline coordinate, independent of baseline 
length, while for the east coordinate RMS repeatability was found to be larger han 
this by factors of 2-4. The GPS-based results were found to be in agreement with those 
from colocated VLBI measurements, when corrected for the physical separations of the 
VLBI and GPS antennas (typically on the order of 0.5 km), at the level of 1-2:107 in 
all coordinates, indepeadent of baseline length. ‘The results for baseline repeatabil- 
ity are consistent with the current GPS error budget, but the GPS-VLBI intercomparisons 
disagree at a somewhat larger level than expected. We hypothesize that these differ- 
ences gay result from errors in the local Survey measurements used to correct for the 
separations of the GPS and VLBI antenna reference centers. 


17. Key Words Gelected by Auther(s)) 18. Distribution Stotement 
Geodesy; Geophysics Unclassified; unlir‘ 


19. Security Classif. (of this report) | 20. Security Clamif. (of this page) | 21. No. of Pages 
Unclassified Unc lassi fied 


.. 


JPL Publication 87-35 


The Spring 1985 High Precision 
Baseline Test of the JPL GPS-Based 
Geodetic System 


A Final Report 


John M. Davidson 
Catherine L. Thornton 
Scott A. Stephens 
Geoffrey Biewitt 
Stephen M. Lichten 
Ojars J. Sovers 
Peter M. 

Lisa L. Skrumeda 
James S. Border 
Ruth E. Neilan 
Charles J. Vegos 
Bobby G. Williams 
Jeffrey T. Freymuelier 
Timothy H. Dixon 
William G. Melbourne 


November 15, 1987 


? 


The research described in this publication was camed out by the Jet Propulsion 
Laboratory. California Institute of Technology. under a contract with the National 
Aeronautics and Space Adrrurustraton 


Reference herein to any specific commercial product. process. or serice by trade 
name_ trademark. manufacturer. or otherwse. does not constitute or imply ts 
endorsement by the United States Government or the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 
Califorma institute of Technology 


; 


PREFACE 


During the years 1979 to 1983, JEL conducted a feasibility study to 
examine the use of the NAVSTAR satellites of the Global Positioning System 
(GPS) as microwave radio sources for precise geodetic measurements in lieu of 
compact radio sources distributed throughout the universe. The work was funded 
by NASA. 

In 1984, Congress mandated NASA to establish a civilian geodynamics 
activity in the Caribbean. JPL, having demonstrated the feasibility and 
affordability of instrumentation based on using the Global Positioning System, 
was assigned the responsibility of implementation and early deployment in the 
Caribbean of this space-oriented geodetic system. It was expected that this 
capability would provide densification requirements necessary for intensive 
study of regional deformation at the tectonic plete boundaries. After an 
intensive and extensive study of the existing positional and navigational 
instrumentation, JPL arrived at the appropriate system design necessary to 
achieve accuracies of at least 1 part in 100 million. Soon thereafter, JPL 
organized a measurement session, using most of the available data acquisition 
receivers to establish the state-of-the-art. From the onset of this program, 
it was obvious that NASA could not muster the resources to implement and 
operate this capability. Therefore, JPL called on universities and agencies, 
all of which were vitally interested in the outcome of this instrumentation, 
to cooperate in meeting the objectives of this project. This report presents 
the findings of the first measurement sessions, conducted in March of 1985. 


We are pleased to report that we achieved an outstanding collaborative activity 


which we expect will carry us throughout the next several years. As of the 


.- 


date of this document, we are preparing a report of the second measurement 
session, conducted with the cooperation of the Mexican agencies in Baja 
< California. Field operations for this second session were conducted in 
November of 1985. , 
TN) A engl 


" N. A. Renzetti, Manager 


JPL Geodynamics Program 


PP ee ee 


? 
? 


The authors grateiully acknowledge the assistance of many of their JPL 
colleagues in carrying out the development of the G?S-based geodetic systems 
and collecting the data from the Spring 1985 High Precision Baseline Test, as 
described in this report. In particular, we acknowledge: J. L. Fanselow, 

J. B. Thomas, T. P. Yunck and L. E. Young for contributing many key technical 
insights; L. E. Young for providing the SERIES-X receivers; S. J. DiNardo for 
assistance with logistics and field operations; D. M. Tralli and B. C. Beckman 
for assistance in developing the data analysis software; J. E. Jordan and J. K. 
Gunckel for reduction of the water vapor radiometer and surface meteorology 
data; and R. E. West for conscientious maintenance of the VAX 11/785 computer 
system on which the software was developed and the data analysis performed; and 
R. N. Treuhaft for an excellent critical reading of this report. 

We acknowledge the many positive interactions with Dr. Robert King of the 
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Dr. James Clynch of the Applied 
Research Laboratory, University of Texas, in the course of the collection and 
analysis of the data. We acknowledge the collaborative roles of the many 
institutions that contributed to the successful execution of the field oper- 
ations, including: the Applied Research Laboratory of the University of Texas, 
the Air Force Geophysical Laboratory, the U.S. Defense Mapping Agency, the U.S. 
National Geodetic Survey, the Naval Surface Weapons Center, the Pacific Missile 
Test Center, the Texas Department of Highways, the Texas Instruments Corpora- 
tion, the U.S. Geological Survey, and the University Navstar Consortium. We 


acknowledge the assistance of the Applied Research Laboratory, University of 


Texas, in delogging the TI-4100 receiver cassette tapes. 


We also acknowledge with thanks the long-term support of NASA managers 


Mr. T. L. Fischetti, Dr. E. A. Flinn and Dr. S. G. Tilford. 


ee rn aw 


ae 1. ree 


ABSTRACT 


The Spring 1985 High Precision Baseline Test (HPBT) of the JPL GPS-Based 
Geodetic Measuring System was conducted between March 28, 1985, and April 5, 
1985. It involved over a cozen collaborating institutions, with organization 
and coordination under NASA/JPL leadership, and was designed to meet a number 
of objectives. Foremost among these was the demonstration of a level of 
accuracy of 1-2:10’, or better, for baselines ranging in length up to several 
hundreds of kilometers. In addition, the HPBT was designed to meet a number 
of secondary objectives, including the development of efficient procedures for 
planning and coordirating large-scale GPS field exercises, the establ: hment 
of institutional interfaces for future cooperative ventures, the initiation of 
a series of calibration measurements on well-determined VLBI baselines, the 
testing of the GPS data analysis software and analysis procedures, and an 
initial site occupation designed to monitor uplift in the Long Valley caldera 
region near Mammoth Lakes, California. 

These objectives were all met with a high degree of success, with respect 
to the demonstration of system accuracy in particular. The results from six 
baselines ranging in length from 70 to 729 km were examined for repeatability 
and, in the case of three baselines, were compared to results from colocated 
VLBI systems. Repeatability was found to be 5:10° (RMS) for the north 
baseline coordinate, independent of baseline length, while for the east 
coordinate RMS repeatability was found to be larger than this by factors of 
2-4. The GPS-based results were found to be in agreement with those from 
colocated VLBI measurements, when corrected for the physical separations of 


the VLBI and GPS antennas (typicaliy on the order of 0.5 kw), at the level of 


vii 


+ 
Za 
a. 
. 
— 
~_ 


1-2:107 in all coordinates, independent of baseline length. The results for 
baseline repeatability are consistent with the current GPS error budget, but 
the GPS-VLBI intercomparisons disagree at a somewhat larger level than 
expected. We hypothesize that these differences may result from errors in the 
local survey measurements used to correct for the separations of the GPS and 


VLBI antenna reference centers. 


viii 


The Spring 1985 High Precision Baseline Test (HPBT) of the JPL GPS-Based 
“ Geodetic Measuring System was conducted between March 28, 1985, and April 5, 
- 1985. It involved over a dozen collaborating institutions, with organization 
and coordination under NASA/ JPL leadership, and was designed to meet a number 
. of objectives. Foremost among these was the demonstration of a level of 
accuracy of 1-2:107, or better, for baselines ranging in length up to several 
hundreds of kilometers. In addition, the HPBT #as designed to meet a number 
of secondary objectives, including the development of efficient procedures for 
planning and coordiaating large-scale CPS field exercises, the establisiment 
of institutional interfaces for future cooperative ventures, the initiation of 
@ series of calibration measurements on well-determined VLBI baselines, the 
testing of the GPS data analysis software and analysis procedures, and an 
initial site occupation designed to monitor uplift in the Long Valley caldera 
region near Mammoth Lakes, California. 

These objectives were all met with a high degree of success, with respect 
to the demonstration of systes accuracy in particular. The results from six 
baselines ranging in length from 70 to 729 km wee examined for repeatability 
and, in the case of three baselines, vere compared to results from colocated 
VLBI systems. Repeatability was found to be 5:10° (RMS) for the north 
baseline coordinate, independent of baseline length, while for the east 

; coordinate RMS repeatability was found to be larger than this by factors of 
2-4. The GPS-based results were found to be in agreement with those from 
colocated VLBI measurements, when corrected for the physical separations of 
the VLBI and GPS antennas (typically on the order of 0.5 km), at the level of 


vii 


“Y 


CONTENTS 

I. Introduction ....-.ssc«cceerecececec cece ee oe ee l 

II. The Spring 1985 High Precision Baseline Test ........ 2 
F Itt. The Fiducial Network Concept .....+++++eeee8e8s 5 

IV. Data Analysis ....22cceccecercccee ee eecees 8 

v. Beeuite «cc rece eseeseeseeeeeceeeeeeees 15 

VI. Discussion of Errors ....++++++#+e+e2e2e2es8 2 ee oe 18 

VII. Summary and Conclusion ......4+++++2+ee8e 28 ees 32 

VIII. ee a ae ae a a a a a a a 2 2 ee 

List of Tables 

1. Spring 1985 HPBT Participating Institutions and Organizations . . 41 
f 2. Summary of Field Equipment Information ......++++++++ + 42 
‘ 3. A Priori Geocentric Station Monument Coordinates ........-+.- 44 
: 4. Offsets of Antenna Phase Centers from Station 

Reference Monuments ....-+-++ +22 eee eee eee eee: 45 

5. Station Monument Identifications ........-+--+-+2++2+ 46 of 
< 6. Estimated and Considered Parameters .....-+ ++ 222+ ees 47 
© 7. Baseline Results from the Spring 1985 HPBT .....+4+++e+e-s 49 
y 
z List of Figures 


1. A schematic picture of North America as it would app-ar from a 
GPS satellite passing over the Galapagos Islands is shown ... . 54 


2. A schematic illustration of the fiducial network approach for 
GPS—-based geodesy is shown... +++ +2 e+ see eee ee eee 55 


3. Covariance analysis results show expected baseline accuracies 
from the Spring 1985 HPBT for the Mojave/Owens Valley baseline .. 56 


ll. 


12. 


13. 


14. 


CONTENTS (Continued) 


Day-to-day repeatability and comparison to colocated VLBI for 
the OVRO/Mcjave baseline between the two SERIES-X receivers 
i 3 shown e. 7 . . * . _ _ . . 7 . . . _ * 7 — - . a 7. _ . . 7 i * 


The day-to-day RMS repeatability about the mean of the north 
component is shown for all baselines connecting the receivers 
at tne Mojave, OVRO, Hat Creek and Mammoth Lakes See se 6s #4 « 


Differences between colocated GPS and VLBI measurement are shown 
for the eight baselines connecting the five receivers located 
at the Mojave, OVRO and Hat Creek sites ... S48 6 we ow 


Consider error (RSS of all three components; see Section VI) 

in the mobile baselines, resulting from fiducial station location 
error, as a function of mobile baseline length is shown for the 
ae eee Se 6 4 ee eS ee le ee es i. 


Post-fit residuals and cross-correlations for the TI-4100 
carrier phase data of Apri! 3 and 4, 1985, are shown ....... 


Post-fit residuals and cross correlations for the SERIES-X 
carrier phase data of April 3 and 4, 1985, are shown ..... — 


The formal error in the vertical baseline component for the 
Mo jave/OVRO baseline, between TI-4100 receivers, is shown as 
a function of troposphere a priori ee ee ee 


The formal errors in the north for the OVRO/Mammoth (70 km), 
OVRC/Mojave (245 km) and Mojave/Mammoth (313 km) baselines are 
shown for a variety of hypothetical fiducial Outage scenarios .. 


The formal errors in the east for the OVRO/Mammoth (70 km), 
OVRO/Mojave (245 km) and Mojave/Mammoth (313 km) baselines are 
shown for a variety of hypothetical fiducial outage scenarios .. 


The total error budget for the north component of the 245 km 
OVRO/Mojave baseline between the SERIES-X receivers is shown... 


The total error budget for the east component of the 245 km 
OVRO/Mojave baseline between the SERIES-X receivers is shown... 


57 


53 


60 


61 


62 


64 


65 


66 


67 


I. Introduction 


Over the past fifteen years, the space geodetic techniques of satellite 
lase ranging (SLR) and very long baseline interferometry (VLBI) have been 
applied to the measurement of earth orientation and global crustal motion 
[e.g., Herring et al., 1986; Christodoulidis et al., 1985; Davidson and Trask, 
1985; Kroger et al., 1987; Sovers et al., 1984]. The results from these and 
other studies are generally consistent with those inferred for geologic time 
spans [Minster and Jordan, 1978]. However, the low resolution provided by the 
sparse VLBI and SLR networks provides a strong incentive for network 
densification. Increased resolution is particularly motivated near tectonic 
plate boundar‘es, where extensive, non-uniform, and possibly time-varying 
strain fields may exist. 

Geodetic systems utilizing signals from the Global Positioning System 
(GPS) satellites have long been recognized as holding the key to such densi- 
fication [e.g., Melbourne et ai., 1986]. These satellites broadcast phase- 
modulated signals at two L-band frequencies (1575.41 MHz and 1227.60 MHz) and 
have already attracted many civilian users for applications in navigation, 
precise orbiter tracking and geodesy. The intensity of the GPS satellite 
signals—-up to 108 times that of the natural radio sources typically used in 
VLBI geodesy-—-has led to the development of GPS-based geodetic receivers which 
are relatively transportable, inexpensive, and easy to operate [e.g., Crow 
et al., 1984; Biock et al., 1985]. In parallel with this, large software 
systems have been developed at JPL, and other centers, fer analysis of GPS 


geodetic data. 


? 


rr ee Ms . 


a” E> prened ¢ mamma er er 


A test of these systems in the regions. context (i.e., involving 
baselines of up to several hundred kilometers in length) was conducted under 
NASA/Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) leadership in the Spring of 1985. The 
principal objective of this test was the wemonstration of geodetic quality 
accuracy for the total GPS system, including satellite constellation, field 
equipment, and data analysis software and procedures. In principle, the 
accuracy of GPS-based systems may eventually rival that already attained by 
VLBI-based systems, where differential positioning accuracies of 1:10°, or 
better, are now routinely attained. However, for purposes of this test, an 
initial goal of 1-2:107 was set. This will establish the sensitivity of the 
GPS systems to expected regional deformation rates of 3-5 cm/yr, for monitoring 
programs spanning no more than several years. In this work, we will show that 


this goal was achieved for baselines ranging from 70 to 729 km in length. 


II. The Spring 1985 High Precision Baseline Test 


Objectives of the Test 

The Spring 1985 High Precision Baseline Test (HPBT) involved over a dozen 
collaborating institutions (Table 1) and was crganized and coordinated by NASA/ 
JPL. The test was designed to meet a number of objectives. Foremost among 
these was the demonstration of a level of accuracy of 1-2:107, or better. 
Central to the achievement of this accuracy goal is the fiducial network 
approach for high-accuracy GPS-based geodesy, which is discussed in detail in 
Section III. Other major objectives of the HPBT included the development of 
efficient procedures for planning and coordinating large-scale GPS field 


exercises, the establishment of institutional interfaces for future cooperative 


——-_- 


7. ae Tae 


7 Gy 


ventures, the initiation of a series of calibration measurements on well- 
determined VLBI baselines, the testing of the GPS data analysis software and 
analysis procedures, and an initial site occupation designed to monitor uplift 
in the Long Valley caldera region near Mammoth Lakes, California. In 
addition, this test was designed to permit an assessment of the performance of 
the participating GPS receiver types and facilitate the testing of water vapor 


radiometers (WVRs) for the calibration of GPS data. 


Criteria for Site Selection 

In the HPBT, a total of fifteen receivers were deployed to ten sites 
across the United States. These sites fell into four classes: fiducial sites 
(see Section III), mobile calibration sites, other mobile sites and one 
scientifically motivated site. One site served in two of these roles. In the 
selection of the fiducial site locations, the VLBI stations of the NOAA/NGS 
POLARIS Project were chosen, with sites located near Westford, MA; Richmond, 
FL; and Ft. Davis, TX. In addition, a fourth fiducial receiver was located at 
the Owens Valley Radio Observatory (OVRO) near Big Pine, CA. In the selection 
of the mobile calibration sites, it was necessary to choose VLBI observatories 
whose positions were accurately measured with respect to fiducial network, so 
that the GPS-based results could be compared with those based on colocated VLBI 
measurements. Accordingly, sites at the Mojave VLBI station of the NASA 
Crustal Dynamics Project, near Barstow, CA; the Owens Valley Radio Observatory; 
and the Hat Creek Radio Observatory, near Hat Creek, CA, were selected as the 
endpoints for the calibration baselines. Other mobile GPS receivers, belonging 


to various of the collaborating institutions, recorded data during the HPBT. 


These were not located at sites of either well-established a priori location or 


‘fh 


of scientific interest and are not treated further in this work. They include 
receivers located at Pt. Mugu, CA; Austin, TX; and Dahlgren, VA. 

To demonstrate the applicability of GPS-based geodesy to a scientific 
problem of current interest, one mobile receiver was deployed to a site near 
Mammoth Lakes, CA, to investigate ground deformation in the Long Valley 
caldera region. This site was established as part of a JPL-Caltech program 
designed to supplement ongoing geodetic measurements by the U.S. Geological 
Survey (USGS). Part of the USGS program consists of leveling surveys, designed 
to monitor vertical motion associated with the uplift of a resurgent dome in 
the Long Valley caldera. This is thought to be due to the intrusion of magma 
into a shallow (< 10 km depth) crustal reservoir [Savage and Clark, 1982; 
Rundle and Whitcomb, 1984], and represents a potential volcanic hazard. A 
detailed analysis and discussion of the results from the occupation of the 


Long Valley site will be presented in a separate report. 


Description of Field Operations 

The Spring 1985 HPBT took place between March 28, 1985, and April 5, 1985. 
Fifteen GPS receivers were placed at ten sites as described in the preceding 
subsections. These ten sites were equipped with a variety of GPS receiver 
types, including SERIES-X [Crow et al., 1984], TI-4100 [Henson et al., 1985] 
and Air Force Geophysical Laboratories (AFGL) dual-frequency receivers [Ladd 
and Counselman, 1985]. Frequency standards used in different phases of the 
test included hydrogen masers, Rb clocks and quartz crystal clocks. Three of 
the sites in California were instrumented with WVRs. A summary of receiver, 
clock and WVR deployment information is given in Table 2. As of late March 


1985, the GPS constellation was configured so that it came together over North 


—  » - Ss: Ye cel ss 


1 


me # 


America once per sidereal day, remaining above any local horizon for approxi- 
mately six hours. The satellite configuration, or geometry, was virtually 
identical from day to day. In California at that time, this six hour view 
period began at approximately 04:00 GMT (8:00 p.m. Pacific Standard Time). 
The dates on which sessions were successfully conducted include the six days 
from March 31, 1985, through April 5, 1985. A map showing the locations of 


the receivers deployed in this test is presented in Figure 1. 
III. The Fiducial Network Concept 


Unification of the GPS and VLBI Coordinate Systems 

The accuracy of GPS-based measurements depends in large part on the accur- 
acies with which the GPS satellite orbits have been determined. Currently 
available post-fit ephemerides define a self-consistent frame of reference at 
the level of approximately 1:10°. Given expected rates of crustal motion of 
< 5 cm/yr, a geodetic measurement program relying on post-fit ephemerides, and 
requiring temporal resolution of less than a decade, would be sensitive to 
such motions over distances of no more than several tens of km. On the other 
hand, a reference system relying on VLBI or SLR measurements to establish and 
maintain coordinate system orientation and scaling is potentially self- 
consistent at a level of 1:10° or better. Hence, a GPS network tied to the 
VLBI coordinate system could be utilized for geodetic measurement on a regional 
scale, or greater. 

A means of establishing this frame tie and improving the accuracy of the 
GPS ephemeris——and hence of GPS-based baseline measurements—has been actively 


pursued at JPL and is known as the fiducial network approach. In this 


= a 


= we 8, SE Peas 


approach, three or sore receivers are placed at locations, called fiducial 
sites, whose positions have been well-established by VLBI. Additional 
receivers, known as mobile receivers, are placed at sites of geodetic 
interest. The fiducial network must be well extended in both latitude and 
longitude, and should be of a scale size somewhat larger than that 

of the mobile receiver network. During a GPS-based measurement, the fiducial 
receivers record data jointly with the mobile receivers, enabling simultaneous 
determination of accurate GPS satellite orbits and geodetic baselines. To the 
extent that orbital dynamics, clocks and atmospheric effects are adequately 
modeled, the accuracy of the mobile receiver locations will reflect that of the 
fiducial receiver locations to which they are referenced. 

It should be noted that by locating the fiducial receivers at VLBI 
stations, the GPS orbit and baseline solutions are inherently expressed in the 
coordinate system of the extragalactic radio sources. This has the aesthetic 
appeal of unifying the GPS and VLBI results in an inertial, or absolute, frame 
of reference and has the practical benefits of permitting their simultaneous 
display, direct comparison and combined use in geophysical interpretation. A 
schematic illustration of the fiducial network method for accurate GPS-based 


geodesy is shown in Figure 2. 


Covariance Analysis Results 

In earlier considerations of the fiducial approach to GPS-based geodesy, 
and in designing the Spring 1985 HPBT, covariance analyses were performed to 
predict system performance for the baselines to be occupied. Figure 3 summar- 


izes the covariance analysis results for one of these baselines, the 245 km 


Mojave/Owens Valley baseline [Davidson et al., 1985], based on the actual 


observing scenario that had been planned for the HPBT. This scenario involved 
one continuous observing session of six hours, with observations recorded every 
six minutes. The error model assumptions were as follows. Zenith troposphere 
calibration accuracy was taken to be 2 cm at stations where WVR data were taken 
and 5 cm otherwise; fiducial baseline accuracy was taken to be 3 cm in all 
coordinates; e priori satellite position and velocity at epoch were taken to be 
10 m and 1 mm/sec, respectively; uncertainty in geocenter location was taken 

to be 20 cm in all coordinates; modeling of solar radiation pressure on the 


GPS spacecraft was assumed to be accurate to within 5% of the total effect; 


the value of GM was taken to be accurate to 1:10°; the error in the gravity 


model was taken to be 50% of the difference between the GEM6 and the APL5.0 
gravity models; the elevation angle cutoff at each station was taken to be 15 
degrees; the data type used was carrier phase (i.e., integrated doppler); 

and data noise was taken to be 2 cm. These error model assumptions were the 
standard ones used for the systems to be deploved in the HPBT and their valid- 
ity was borne out in the analysis of experimental data several months later. 
Two covariance analyses based on the observing plan of the HPBT were made, one 
in which the satellite epoch states were estimated (i.e., using the fiducial 
network approach) and one in which they were fixed at their a priori values 
(i.e., as if it were a two-station experiment with no fiducial network and no 
orbit estimation). An intermediate case in which satellite orbits were esti- 
mated, but in which none of the GPS receivers had well-established a priori 
locations (i.e., a free network solution in which all stations were mobile 
stations), gives results between the two extremes shown in Figure 3. As this 
figure shows, the use of a fiducial network and orbit estimation is expected 


to improve accuracy for this baseline by factors of from five in the vertical 


to forty in the north. As we shall see, this prediction via covariance 
analy-i> of system performance in the HPBT was borne out in the results from 


the actual HPBT date. 


IV. Data Analysis 


The GIPSY Software 

The GIPSY (GPS Inferred Positioning SYstem) software for GPS data analysis 
was developed at JPL between January 1985 and the present. It consists of over 
70,000 lines of code, approximately one-third of which were adapted from pre- 
existing software systems, such as the VLBI data analysis code MASTERFIT 
(Sovers and Fanselow, 1986] and the spacecraft orbital dynamics modeling code 
Double Precision Trajectory Program (DPTRAJ) (Moyer, 1971]. The remaining 


two-thirds consist of newly written code, much of which is also used in the 


OASIS (Orbit Analysis SImulation System) covariance analysis software system 


(Wu and Thornton, 1985]. Briefly, GIPSY consists of: a comprehensive front 
end for data editing, phase connection, atmospheric calibrations and data 
compression; FESCHED, an experiment scheduling program which generates 
observing schedules, rise-set tables and plots, satellite ground and sky 
tracks, and artificial data for covariance analysis; PATH-VARY, a program 
which generates satellite trajectories and integrates variational equations to 
form transition matrices for satellite states and dynamic model parameters; 
GPSOMC (observed minus calculated), which computes an accurate model 
observable and pre-fit residuals; OAFILTER, a U - D factorized batch 
sequential process noise filter to do parameter estimation and covariance 
analysis; and an output processor to display orbits, baselines and parameter 


solutions and covariances. Model accuracy in GIPSY is believed to be better 


than 1 cm. GIPSY has a number of flexible clock modeling options, including 
white (uncorrelated) or colored process noise, which, in the case of white 
noise, is analogous to (though more general than) double differencing, and 
representation as polynomials of degree one or two over specified data arcs. 
In addition, singly or doubly differenced observables can be explicitly 
generated. The software is capable of combining data from different receiver 
types and of processing different data types (e.g., carrier phase and 
pseudorange) simultaneously. Estimated and considered (see Section VI) 
parameters may include satellite position and velocity at epoch, station 
position and velocity, station and satellite clocks, range biases (for carrier 
phase data), three solar radiation coefficients for each satellite, zenith 
tropospheric delay, rate-of-change, and mapping parameters at each station, 
earth orientation parameters, corrections to precession and nutation, 
geocenter coordinates, solid earth tide Love numbers and tidal phase, 
coordinate scale error, and the general relativity y-factor of the Brans- 
Dicke theory. (It should be noted that in current processing, especially 
involving data arcs oi six hours or less, only a subset of these parameters is 
estimated.) The GIPSY software is written in FORTRAN and runs on any of the 
VAX 11/700 or 8000 series or on the new MicroVAX II series, running under the 
VMS version 4.4 (or higher) operating system. Detailed mathematical descrip- 


tions of the model observables and partial derivatives generated in the OMC 


module are presented in a separate report [Sovers and Border, 1987]. Mathe- 


matical descripticns of the operations performed by the OAFILTER module have 


been given by Bierman [1977] and Wu et al. [1986]. 


i 
, 
' 


A Priori Receiver Coordinates 

The VLBI-based baseline solutions used to establish the coordinates of the 
fiducial and calibration sites in a consistent reference frame were those of 
global solution S284C of Ryan and Ma [1985]. The quoted formal uncertainties 
in three dimensions for these coordinates range from slightly less than 1 cm 
to slightly less than 2 cm. In addition, an unimplemented relativity correc- 
tion in the model calculations of the VLBI data analysis software used by those 
authors has introduced a scale error of approximately 1.4:10° in the fiducial 
baseline length estimates reported in that work. 

The local survey measurements used to relate the VLBI antenna intersection 
of axes to local survey monuments (invariably within 1 km of the VLBI antenna) 
were taken from the Crustal Dynamics Project: Catalogue of Site Information 
(NASA, 1983]. The precision of these survey measurements is quoted in that 
reference as being “subcentimeter," but it is noted further that their true 
accuracy may be somewhat worse, owing to distortions in the NAD27 coordinate 
system, in which the local surveys were made. However, we claim that unde- 
tected errors on the order of 4 cm may persist in the local survey data. We 
base this conjecture on two facts. First, two significant surs ~ errors were 
discovered in the course of the present work, one of 20 cm at Ft. Davis by 
R. W. King [personal communication, 1986] and one of 35 cm at OVRO by the 
authors. Second, observed systematic differences between VLBI and GPS 
measurements occur at about this level on a number of baselines in such a way 
as to indicate local survey error as a possible explanation. This evidence is 
presented and discussed in Section V. 

The GPS antenna site vectors, relating a reference point on the antenna 


to a nearby monument (usually directly beneath the antenna by a distance of 


10 


— a  , BIO eee ees 


1-2 m), are measured in the field by receiver operators. The precision of 
these relatively simple measurements is on the order of 0.2 cm. The locations 
of the separate Ll and L2 phase centers with respect to this reference point 
were taken from Sims [1985]. In that work, it is also shown that the measured 
locations of the Ll and L2 reference points of the TI-4100 antennas differ by 
up to 1 cm between different antennas and there are phase variations as a func- 
tion of satellite elevation and azimuth at about that level. In addition, 
phase center locations may suffer effective shifts in location owing to reflec- 
tions (i.e., multipathing; see Section VI) from nearby surfaces. These 

effects limit site vector accuracy for these antennas to approximately 1 cm. 
Similar shifts may occur in the cases of the SERIES-X and AFGL antennas, but 
they have not been well-studied or documented, and we make no attempt to 
quantify them here. For purposes of error assessment in this work, we make the 
assumption that the size of these effects for these antennas is similar to that 
reported for the TI-4100 antenna. 

A correction for the offset of the origin of the VLBI coordinate system 
from the geocenter was made, based on a least-squares fit of colocation data 
from four sites to determine offset-of-origin and rotation of the VLBI and SLR 
coordinate frames [R. W. King, personal communication, 1986]. The estimated 


size of this offset in meters (SLR - VLBI) is 1.752, -1.179 and 0.304 in 


geocentric x, y and z, respectively. The accuracy of this correction is taken 


to be 10 cm [Smith et al., 1985; Tapley et al., 1985]. 
We do not expect temporal baseline changes from crustal deformation to be 
a significant source of error for the fiducial and mobile calibration baselines 


involved in this work, because they all lie within the North American plate. 


; 
. 
? 
: 


‘th 


Repeated VLBI measurement of these baselines spanning many years limits 
uncertainty in station location from this error source to approximately 1 cm 
(Herring et al., 1986]. 

Geocentric coordinates used in this work for the reference monuments over 
which the fiducial and mobile calibration GPS receivers were placed are given 
in Table 3; site vectors connecting reference monuments to antenna phase 
centers are given in Table 4; and monument identification information is given 


in Table 5. 


A Priori Satellite Ephemeris 

The nominal orbits used in this work to initialize the parameter 
estimation were based on the precise ephemeris provided to us by the Naval 
Surface Weapons Center (NSWC). The NSWC orbits at that time were computed in 
the WGS-72 coordinate system, with reference epoch AlL950.0, from a one-week 
fit (plus a one-week prediction) and are thought to be internally consistent 
at the level of 15-20 meters. Because the coordinates of the fiducial sites 
used in this work are expressed in the VLBI coordinate system, with reference 
epoch J2000.0, it was decided to transform the NSWC orbits to correct for the 
large difference between the two reference epoch definitions, before they were 
used to initialize data Processing. In addition, they were scaled to account 
for the different values of GM used in the NSWC and GIPSY software systems. 
The remaining difference between the two coordinate systems consisted mainly 
of a fairly large offset in longitude. Previously published values for this 
offset range from 0.5 to 0.8 arcsec [Hothem et al., 1982). An estimation from 
the Spring 1985 HPBT data itself has been made by Lichten et al. [1986], who 


report a value of 0.68 arcsec (3.3 yrad) in UTl - UTC, consistent with the 


12 


~ & —e Sr 2 a he 


¢ 

‘ 
> 
f 


earlier report. Rotations about the x- and y-axes were estimated to be 


smaller by over an order of magnitude. 


Atmospheric Calibrations 

Removal of propagation media distortions was done essentially as has been 
done in VLBI-based geodesy (which is also a microwave-based technique) for a 
number of years [e.g., Davidson and Trask, 1985]. Briefly, the techniques 
used were as follows. Removal of ionosphere effects was based on an assumed 
inverse-squared frequency dependence for ionosphere dispersion, with carrier 
phase data, recorded simultaneously at the Ll and L2 frequencies (1575.41 MHz 
and 1227.60 MHz), combined to create ionosphere-free observables. Calibration 
of the dry troposphere at the local zenith was obtained directly from the 
surface barometric pressure; mapping of the dry air mass from the zenith to the 
satellite line-of-sight was done using the mapping algorithm of Lanyi [1984]. 
Calibration of the zenith wet troposphere was obtained from WVR data, when 
that was available, and otherwise from surface meteorology (SM) data used as 
input to atmospheric models. The reduction of WVR data was according to the 
algorithm of Robinson [1986] and the reduction of the SM data used the +f 
algorithm of Chao [1973]. Mapping of the wet troposphere delay to the 
satellite line-of-sight was also done as per Lanyi [1984]. The accuracy at 
zenith of these combined troposphere c+#‘‘brations was taken to be 2 cm and 
6 cm, for WVR and SM data, respectively, with the exception of the calibrations 
based on the DSN prototype WVR located at Hat Creek, C4 (Table 2). Calibra- 
tions based on this WVR were assigned an uncertainty of 6 cm, based on the 
behavior in initial parameter adjustments of the estimated additive constant 
delay at zenith and on the fact that this WVR is an early prototype known to 


have relatively large instrumental instabilities. 


13 


ee er ee ye 
e a 


Estimation of Parameters 

In our initial processing, we focused on a representative subset of the 
HPBT data. This subset consisted of the carrier phase data from the AFGL 
receivers located at the POLARIS VLBI sites (see Section II); the SERIES-X 
receivers located at Mojave and OVRO; the TI-4100 receivers located at Mojave, 
OVRO, Mammoth Lakes and Hat Creek; and observing GPS satellites GPS 1, GPS 3, 
GPS 4, GPS 6, GPS 8, GPS 9 and GPS 10 (launch sequence numbers). Pseudorange 
data were not used because of the high level of multipath error. (See Section 
VI.) Data were processed separately for each of the 6 hour sessions on 
March 31, 1985, through April 5, 1985. Estimated parameters included satellite 
positions and velocities at epoch, a separate constant correction at all 
stations to the zenith troposphere delay, mobile station coordinates, station 
and spacecraft clock cffsets, and range biases. Uncertainties in unestiaated 
parameters included in the computation of covariances include uncertainties in 
fiducial station coordinates, geocenter coordinates, solar radiation param- 
eters, coordinate scale, and earth orientation parameters. The stations 
treated as mobile stations in the parameter estimation included the SERIES-X 
receiver at Mojave and the TI-4199 receivers at Mojave, OVRO, Hat Creek and 
Mammoth Lakes. The stations treated as fiducial receivers included the 
SERIES-X receiver at OVRO and the AFGL receivers at the POLARIS VLBI sites. 
Clock offsets were treated as stochastic parameters, with a white noise error 
model, which is equivalent to clock removal via explicit double-differencing. 
Data noise was adjusted to attain a x? per degree of freedom of unity. This 
noise, or weighting, was initially adjusted separately for each receiver type, 
based on the RMS scatter of post-fit residuals; however, RMS scatter was found 


to lie consistently in the range 7-8 mm, independent of receiver type. Hence, 


14 


r 


3 em a a = 
=, _—— a. eee a - SF Lod ae oar 


Pry) Reena ee ae 


- 
* 


a uniform data noise was adopted for all carrier phase observables. The data 


noise adopted was 1.0 cm for all six sessions. A summary of estimated and 


considered parameters and their a priori uncertainties is given in Table 6. 


V. Results 


Estimated Parameters and Covariances 

Baseline results for each of the six days from March 31, 1985, through 
April 5, 1985 are given in Table 7. (For some baselines, station outages have 
reduced the number of daily solutions to five or four.) This table gives the 
offsets of the GPS-based daily solutions from the VLBI-based a priori baseline 
values (see Table 5), with the sign sense being: offset=solution-a priori. 
Two uncertainties are given in Table 7 for each daily solution: a formal 
standard error and a total absolute error. These differ in that the latter 
includes contributions from several important systematic error sources, 
including errors in fiducial position, earth orientation, coordinate scale, 
solar radiation pressure modeling, and geocenter location. Also given for 
each baseline component are: the weighted mean value of the daily solutions; 
the weighted RMS scatter about the mean; and the x? per degree of freedom 
in calculating the mean. The weights used in computing the mean values are 
the inverse squares of the formal standard errors of the daily solutions. Two 
uncertainties are given for each mean value. These correspond to those given 
for the daily solutions, with the formal standard error of the mean given by 
RMS//N-— 1 and with the total absolute error of the mean (as with the daily 
solutions) including contributions from systematic error sources. In the case 


of the total absolute error of the mean, an additional error contribution of 


15 


4 

# 
| 
“ 


‘t 


4 cm accounting for mobile site survey error is quadratically summed to the 
systematic error contributions listed above. A quantitative discussion of 


these error sources is presented in the following section. 


Baseline Repeatability 

Day-to-day repeatability of estimated baseline components defines measure- 
ment precision, provides a lower limit on system inherent accuracy and can 
give important insight into system performance. Values of RMS repeatability 
are given in Table 7 for all eight baselines connecting the receivers at the 
Mojave, OVRO and Hat Creek sites. A plot showing typical results in the 
horizontal plane is given in Figure 4 for the 245 km length OVRO/Mojave base- 
line between the two SERIES-X receivers. Repeatability about the mean in the 


north is 0.6 cm (RMS), or 3:10°, while in the east it is 1:107. In the : 


case of the north component, this repeatability approaches that attained for 
mobile VLBI measurements for baselines of this length [Davidson and Trask, 
1985; Kroger et al., 1987]. When the north repeatability is examined for all 
of the baselines between GPS receivers located in California, including those 
involving the receiver located near Mammoth Lakes, it is seen to be a strong a 
function of length, being very close to 5:10° for all baselines, with lengths 
ranging from 70 km to 729 km (Figure 5). For the case of the east and vertical 
components, the day-to-day repeatability taken over all baselines is uncorre- 
lated with length and falls in the range 1-2:107. These results meet the 
accuracy objectives set for the Spring 1985 Test (see Section I) and represent 
a level of system performance which would provide sensitivity to expected 
regional deformation rates for geodetic monitoring programs spanning only 


several years. The causes of the larger day-to-day scatter in the east and 


16 


vertical, as opposed to the north, and the prospects for 1:108 precision in 


all components are discussed in Section VI. 


Comparison of GPS and VLBI Baselines 

Comparison of GPS measurements with results from an independent technique 
of comparable accuracy, such as VLBI, provides an additional test of GPS system 
absolute accuracy. In this subsection, we compare GPS and VLBI results for the 
eight baselines (length > 1 km) connecting the five GPS receivers located at 
the Mojave, OVRO and Hat Creek VLBI sites. (See Table 2.) From Table 7 and 
Figure 4, we see that the colocated GPS and VLBI baseline measurements typ- 
ically differ in the horizontal plane by 5 cm, with differences in some cases 
ranging up to 10 cm. When these differences are plotted for all eight base- 
lines, a systematic pattern appears. Figure 6 shows the weighted averages of 
the single-day solutions for March 31, 1985, through April 5, 1985 for each of 
the eight baselines. In this figure, we see that while all four of the Mojave/ 
OVRO baselines differ from the VLBI measurement by about 8 cm, they agree with 
each other within the measurement precision, as defined by the RMS repeatabil- 
ity for each individual baseline (Table 7). This is especially true in the 
case of the better-determined north baseline components, for which the agree- 
ment among these four baselines is better than 1 cm. Similar conclusions may 
be drawn regarding the two Hat Creek/OVRO baselines and the two Mojave/Hat 
Creek baselines. This highly systematic grouping by baseline of GPS/VLBI 
differences strongly suggests the presence of errors on the order of 4 cm in 
the local (length < 1 km) surveys which are used to correct for the physical 
separations of the VLBI antenna reference point (the intersection of the 
azimuth and elevation axes) and the local network. This and other error 


sources are discussed in the following section. 


; 


fa 


VI. Discussion of Errors 


In this section, we discuss the sources of error in the results presented 
in Section V. Error sources are categorized as either associated or not 
associated with parameters that are estimated in the least-squares sense. They 
are also categorized as being sources of systematic or random error. Within 
this framework, an error budget is developed for the specific example of the 
245 km length OVRO/Mojave baseline. Tests are made of the dependence of mobile 
baseline accuracy on data noise, multipathing, a priori information and fidu- 
cial network GPS constellation geometry. Comparisons are then made between 
this error budget and the results presented in the previous section for day-to- 


day baseline repeatability and for GPS/VLBI baseline intercomparison. 


Systematic Errors Associated With Non-Estimated Parameters 

Many model parameters are not adjusted in the least-squares estimation 
process. These include fiducial station coordinates, earth orientation param- 
eters, a coordinate scale factor, solar radiation parameters, and geocenter 
coordinates. (See Table 6 for a more complete tabulation of these.) In the 
case of all but the first of these parameters, estimation was not attempted, 
because the HPBT data lack the strength to make meaningful estimations of 
their values. In the case of the fiducial station coordinates, estimation is 
precluded by the requirement that a consistent definition of the GPS coordinate 
frame be maintained for all GPS geodetic results. 

The contributions of uncertainties in these non-estimated parameters to 
the covariances of the estimated parameters of interest (i.e., mobile baseline 


components) are calculated using a technique known as consider analysis [e.g., 


18 


= 


-~ . 


Yunck and Wu, 1983; Bierman, 1977]. The non-estimated parameters to which 

this approach is applied are known as considered parameters and the resulting 
contributions to mobile baseline covariances are known as consider errors. The 
consider errors for non-estimated parameters in this work (listed in Table 6) 
were computed, and all, with the exception of those associated with fiducial 
station uncertainties, were found to be negligible, being < 1 mm in size. 

The consider errors associated with fiducial station location uncertain- 
ties are much larger than this. These were determined for all mobile baselines 
connecting the six receivers located at the Mojave, OVRO, Hat Creek and Mammoth 
Lakes sites. An a priori uncertainty of 4 cm was assumed in each coordinate 
for each of the four fiducial receivers, with local survey error providing the 
dominant contribution to this. (See Section IV.) These consider errors were 
found to be relatively large and to scale with baseline length. A plot of 
this length dependence is shown in Figure 7, with the separate contributions 
shown for the individual fiducial stations. 

Several important features are evident in this figure. First, for the 
particular network of fiducial and mobile stations used in the Spring 1985 
HPBT, the uncertainties in mobile baselines (all of which are located in 
California) are most sensitive to errors in the locations of the fiducial 
stations at OVRO, CA, and Ft. Davis, TX, with sensitivity to fiducial station 
errors at Westford, MA, and Richmond, FL, being smaller by factors of 3-4. 
Second, the total (three-dimensional) consider error for regional mobile 
baselines (of length < 1000 km) is 8 cm, or less. From these facts one can 
conclude that reduction of local survey error to the level of a few 
millimeters, which is well within the capability of current techniques, would 


leave VLBI baseline error as the dominant contributor to uncertainty in 


19 


=> ag SS FF cel a0 pa os eer 


- %& =e w S = =_ 


fiducial station location and reduce fiducial station consider error by a 
factor of almost ten to less than a centimeter even for baselines approaching 


1000 km in length. 


Systematic Errors Associated With Estimated Parameters 

Since it is rarely the case that the phenomena of nature are modeled with 
perfect realism, it is necessary to ask what systematic errors might arise in 
the mobile baselines because of modeling errors associated with estimated 
parameters. Three sets of parameters deserve particular examination in this 
regard: those describing the spacecraft trajectories, the troposphere, and 
the ionosphere. 


To investigate modeling errors in the case of spacecraft trajectories, a 


? 
; 


covariance analysis was performed to determine the sensitivity to errors in the ' 
gravity field, solar oblateness, the solar flux constant, the value of GM, and 


uncertainties in solar panel positioning [J. S. Border, personal communication, 


a peek over 


1987]. These error sources were found to be negligible, particularly for the 
relatively short arcs and regional extent of the observing network of the 
Spring 1985 HPBT. In addition, to validate implementation of the orbital 
dynamics model in software, comparisons were made between trajectories gen- 
erated by the JPL-developed PATH-VARY code and those generated by similar 
codes developed independently at the Aerospace Corporation and the Defense 

5 Mapping Agency. In these comparisons, six-parameter spacecraft epoch states 
> were numerically integrated forward in time using all three codes. Agreement 
was observed in all cases at the level of 14 cm, or better, for arcs of up to 
8 days in length. Based on these tests, we conclude that virtually no system- 
atic error arises in this work from the mismodeling of spacecraft orbital 


dynamics. 


20 


In the case of the troposphere, the zenith delay at each station was 
modeled as the sum of wet and dry calibrations and an estimated additive 
constant delay having the scale height of the wet troposphere component. In 
conditions of high humidity, such as may be encountered in the tropical 
climates (e.g., the Caribbean and South America), the modeling error resulting 
from this approach may be significant, owing to the possible existence of 
horizontal gradients, which may be variable in both space and time [e.g., 
Treuhaft and Lanyi, 1987]. Further, an effective zenith error in the applied 
calibrations may not be well-represented by a constant, owing to both instru- 
mental and meteorological effects. In the present work, however, especially 
given the relative quiescence of the troposphere in most of the United States, 
this representation may be adequate to assure that no substantial systematic 
error arises from mismodeling of the troposphere. Nevertheless, acknowledging 
the possible presence of these error sources, and lacking a more quantitative 
understanding of their significance, we have represented them in our error 
model by a 1 cm systematic (consider) error in the zenith dry troposphere and 
a 0.5 cm uncertainty in each mobile horizontal baseline component. 

It warrants mention that a stochastic white noise representation of the 
clocks-—-in effect, elimination of clocks by double differencing--assures that 
no systematic error in the mobile baselines arises from the mismodeling of 
clocks. This may not generally be the case in future work, should other 
representations of clock behavior--such as linear, quadratic or stochastic 
colored noise—-be used. 

In the case of the ionosphere, dispersive effects are removed using an 
assumed inverse-squared frequency dependence, as described earlier. (See 


Section IV.) The size of higher-order effects on the dual frequency phase 


21 


observable was calculated for the worst-case scenario of observation during 


solar maximum at midday at low elevation. It was found to be less than 1 cm 


[S. A. Stephens, personal communication, 1986]. Since the Spring 1985 HPBT 


took place during the solar minimum and at night, we conclude that systematic 
errors due to ionosphere mismodeling are reduced by over an order of magnitude 


from the worst case and are negligible. 


Random Errors 

Those estimated parameters for which no significant modeling errors exist 
are removed as sources of systematic error by means of their adjustment in the 
least-squares estimation process. Parameters in this class include all those 
listed as estimated in Table 6, with the possible exception, as noted above, 
of those characterizing the troposphere. The impact of these parameters on 
computed baseline covariances (i.e., formal errors) may be significant, 
depending in size on a combination of factors, including observable noise, a 
priori information, and network geometry. However, it must be emphasized that 
parameters in this class are not to be regarded as sources of error, in the 
sense that their impact on the system performance is always appropriately 
reflected in the size of the computed baseline covariances. To investigate 
the dependence of baseline accuracy in the Spring 1985 HPBT on these factors, 


test runs were made as described in the following subsections. 


The effect of observable noise 
The dependence of baseline formal errors on the assumed uncertainty, 
or noise, ascribed to the observable data will, in the absence of a priori 


information and consider errors, be exactly linear. Since the analysis of the 


present work involves both of these, this linearity cannot be assumed. To 
investigate the dependence of formal errors on data noise, a subset of the 
HPBT data was reprocessed using a data noise of 2.0 cm, twice that adopted in 
Section IV based on post-fit RMS scatter. It was found that baseline formal 
errors scaled linearly with input data noise to within a few percent. This 
means that baseline precision will benefit directly and significantly in future 
experiments when improvements in the field equipment, calibrations or modeling 
in software reduce post-fit RMS scatter and mandate the use of smaller values 


for the data noise. 


b. The effect of multipathing 
GPS signals which reach the receiver antenna indirectly after 
reflection from surfaces either near the broadcasting antenna or on the ground 
may sum coherently (and generally out of phase) with the direct signal and 
cause an error in the measured values of the phase and group delay observables. 
This phenomenon is known as multipathing and is highly dependent on antenna 
design and environment. 

To examine the HPBT carrier phase data for evidence of ground-based multi- 
pathing and to investigate dependence on antenna design, meteorologically and 
ionospherically calibrated carrier phase observables were double-differenced, 
with the stations and satellites chosen to maximize the length of the arc. A 
model observable was subtracted, and a low-order polynomial was fit to the 
residual. The final residual, after removal of the fitted polynomial, should 
exhibit only the effects of system noise, tropospheric and instrumental 
fluctuations, and multipathing. Of these, only multipathing will be periodic 


on a sidereal day. Hence, if multipath is a significant contribution to error 


23 


[ 
’ 


in the observables, data from consecutive days will be correlated. Figures 8 
and 9 show these post-fit residuals and cross-correlations for the TI-4100 and 
SERIES-X data, respectively, from the Mojave and OVRO sites for two days of the 
HPBT [Stephens et al., 1986]. These figures show multipathing to be strong 
for the TI-4100 antennas, but relatively weak for the SERIES-X antennas. This 
difference is not unexpected, since the SERIES-X antennas were placed closer 
to the ground (Table 4) and were equipped with back-plane absorbers, both of 
which suppress multipathing [e.g., Counselman et al., 1981; Crow et al., 1985; 
Bishop et al., 1985]. Studies are currently under way at JPL to determine the 
optimum ground-based receiver antenna design and environment for geodetic and 
tracking applications using GPS signals [L. E. Young, personal communication, 
1987]. 

To examine the filter output for evidence of ground-based multipathing, 
the post-fit RMS scatter was tabulated for: (a) all receivers, (b) separate < 
receiver types, and (c) individual receivers. It was found that the RMS 
scatter of undifferenced, ionosphere calibrated carrier phase observables, 
when all receivers were included, was about 7.5 mm, substantially larger (in 
an RSS sense) than the values inferred from Figures 8 and 9 for the multi- ee 
pathing components alone, which were 4 mm for TI-4100 receivers and 2 mm for 
SERIES-X receivers [Stephens et al., 1986]. In addition, it was found that 
the RMS scatters for cases (b) and (c) were also about 7.5 mm, independent of 
which receiver was used. From this, we conclude that ground-based multipath 
was not the dominant component in the data residuals and was not a limitation 
on system precision during the HPBT for solutions using the carrier phase data 
type. 4 

For analyses utilizing the pseudorange data type, the situation is much 


different. Pseudorange is attractive because of its greater information 


24 


i 
, 
t 


’ ' 
content (no range biases need be estimated), its immunity to cycle slips and 


its high tolerance of outages [Yunck, 1985]. However, examination of post-fit 


residuals in analyses attempted using pseudorange indicates a ground-based 


multipathing component of 50 cm, or greater, for this data type [Lichten and 
Border, 1987]. This is not unexpected, since multipath error scales roughly 
with wavelength, which for pseudorange is 100 times that for carrier phase 
{[Yunck, 1985]. However, it should be noted that pseudorange may become the 
data type of choice within the next few years, with the advent of advanced GPS 
receivers, equipped with improved antennas capable of delivering high precision 
(< 10 cm) pseudorange [Meehan et al., 1987]. Indeed, covariance analysis has 
shown that pseudorange with measurement noise of 20 cm, or better, will provide 
orbit and baseline precision comparable to that obtained using carrier phase 
with measurement noise of 1 cm [Bertiger et al., 1986]. 

Multipathing from the GPS spacecraft is expected to vary slowly with time 
and hence be a possible source of systematic error. This phenomenon is also 


under current study at JPL [Young et al., 1985; R. Neilan, 1986]. 


C. The effect of a priori information e7 

The dependence of baseline formal errors on the a priori uncertain- 

ties, or constraints, applied to other estimated parameters may be significant. 

This is particularly the case when a priori and post-fit formal errors are com- 

parable, indicating that for these parameters, and possibly for others, the 

filter solutions do not derive their strength from the observable data alone. 

An examination of post-fit uncertainties in this work shows that only in the 

case of the troposphere parameters is it likely that significant a priori 


information has been supplied. For example, the estimated zenith troposphere 


25 


> 
(+) 3 
- 
- -f } - 


-. ~, Y ie = 
 —] & ~ oo ,, Se be £ ana owes 


7 


corrections at Mojave and OVRO have formal errors typically in the range 
1.0-1.5 cm, only slightly smaller than the adopted value of 2.0 cm, repre- 
senting the combined accuracy of the wet and dry troposphere calibrations. 

To investigate this dependence, the data from April 2, 1985, were 
processed through the filter a number of times, with a wide range of values 
used for the troposphere a priori uncertainty at the Mojave and OVRO 
stations. Figure 10 shows a plot of the formal error in the vertical baseline 
component for the Mojave/OVRO baseline, the component usually most sensitive 
to troposphere calibration errors, as a function of troposphere a priori 
uncertainty. For a troposphere calibration accuracy of 2.0 cm, used in this 
work to represent the combined uncertainty in the wet and dry tropospheres, 
the resulting improvement in vertical baseline precision is only 7%. Even for 
a total troposphere error of 1.0 cm, it would have been only 14%. From this 
figure, one can infer that the use of external troposphere calibration for the 
processing of the data from the Spring 1985 HPBT contributed little to the 
precision of the estimated vertical baseline components. Further, one can 
infer that external calibration would have contributed significantly to this 
precision only if it had been on the order of 0.5 cm or better. 

It should be emphasized that the above conclusions relate to the Spring 
1985 HPBT only and should not be extrapolated to GPS-based geodesy in general. 
There are several reasons for withholding from this generalization. First, 
WVR-based calibration is in fact expected to eventually attain an accuracy of 
0.5 cm or better [Gary et 2l1., 1985]. Further, in conditions of high humidity, 
such as may be encountered in the Caribbean and South America, the existence of 
azimuthal asymmetries in the troposphere [e.g., Treuhaft and Lanyi, 1987] may 
mandate the use of WVRs for calibration via satellite copointing. In addi- 


tion, the improved quality of GPS data from new receivers [Meehan et al., 


26 


? 


—_- 


1987] may increase the sensitivity of baseline solutions to calibration errors. 
Lastly, the above claim implicitly assumes the validity of the error model and 
disregards the fact that the WVR calibrations provide information on “he time- 
dependence of the wet troposphere delay; important complementary information 

regarding troposphere-related errors will be provided by studies (in progress) 


of baseline repeatability as a function of calibration technique. 


d. The effect of fiducial network geometry 
The dependence of baseline formal errors on fiducial network 

geometry must be understood in order to plan for future experiments. In 
addition, it is important to be able to predict the consequences of the loss 
of one or more fiducial stations during an experiment, an all too possible 
occurrence. To investigate this dependence, a subset of the Spring 1985 HPBT 
data was reprocessed using hypothetical single--station outages at Ft. Davis, 
Richmond and Westford in different runs. The case of a hypothetical outage at 
two stations simultaneously, Westford and Richmond, was also investigated. 
Finally, the case of a five-station fiducial network (Westford, Richmond, Ft. 
Davis, Mojave and OVRO) was run. The resulting formal errors in the horizontal 
plane for the OVRO/Mammoth (70 km), OVRO/Mojave (245 km) and Mojave/Mammoth 
(313 km) baselines are displayed in Figures 11 and 12. From these figures, we 
see that while the addition of a fifth fiducial station provides only a slight 
improvement in baseline precision, the loss of a station, reducing the fiducial 
network to three stations, results in a serious loss of precision, particularly 
in the case of the longer two of these three baselines. By far, the most 


serious loss of precision occurs when the Westford station is lost to the 


27 


f 
; 
‘ 
/ 


? 


oS 


» 


fiducial network. This is not surprising, since the loss of Westford would 
result in the greatest reduction in geometric extent, for both the north and 
the east directions, of the fiducial network. We also see that the loss of 
two fiducial stations, requiring the use of a more local fiducial network 
consisting of Ft. Davis, Mojave and OVRO, results in serious loss of precision 
for even the short OVRO/Mammoth baseline. 

We conclude that the minimal fiducial network for GPS-based regional 
geodesy using the current receiver systems consists of four stations, with a 
fifth station highly desirable to Protect against the possibility of an outage 
somewhere within the fiducial network. We must add the following caveat: this 
conclusion may not apply when improved data quality (including usable pseudo- 
range) and vastly different receiver networks exist, and it will have to be 


reexamined from time to time as the GPS systems evolve. 


e. The effect of GPS satellite geometry and time-tag offsets 
Baseline results in this work (e.g., Figure 4 and Table 7) show the 

precision of the eastern baseline component to be worse than that for the north 
by factors of 2-4. This asymmetry is related to receiver time tag errors and 
the necessity of estimating carrier phase biases without accurate pseudorange 
or good a priori constraints. All ground tracks of GPS satellites at mid- 
latitudes run almost exactly north to south (or south to north). Because of 
this, the estimates of both carrier phase bias and time tag offsets from UTC 
are correlated with the estimated longitude of a given receiver relacive to 
some reference receiver [Blewitt, 1987a]. 

In future experiments, this eastern error can be reduced by a factor ot 


about two, if the receiver time tags are synchronized to UTC to within a 


28 


oT, RO PP alae ees lk, 
~ s wan a 3 = “- = 


microsecond. This would permit the application of a priori time tag con- 
straints, breaking the correlation with longitude. Alternatively, even impre- 
cise (e.g., 1 meter) pseudorange may be used in conjunction with carrier phase 
to establish clock synchronization, if there is no significant (> 1 psec) 
offset between the pseudorange and carrier phase time tags. This eastern error 
can be reduced by an additional factor of two by "optimizing" the carrier phase 
biases, using the extra information that they can assume only integer values 


[Blewitt, 1987b]. 


A GPS Error Budget 

In this subsection, a GPS baseline error budget is presented for the 
specific case of the 245 km OVRO/Mojave baseline between the SERIES-X 
receivers. This error budget includes the contributions from all significant 
error sources, including consider errors, modeling errors in estimated 
parameters, and formal, or random, errors, as discussed in the preceding 
subsections. That is, it represents our current understanding of the absolute 
accuracy of the JPL-developed GPS-based geodetic systems used in the Spring 
1985 HPBT. This error budget is shown for the horizontal plane in Figures 13 
and 14. In these figures, the separate consider errors for geocenter 
uncertainty, solar radiation pressure uncertainty, coordinate scale error, 
earth orientation errors, and fiducial coordinate errors are shown. The a 
priori uncertainties used for these parameters are listed in Table 6. (The 
consider errors for the other non-estimated parameters are even smaller than 
those shown in the two figures.) 


A 0.5 cm uncertainty representing the possible existence of horizontal 


gradients in the troposphere (i.e., modeling error) [Davidson and Trask, 1985] 


and the formal errors are also shown. 


In examining these figures, we see that three error sources dominate all 
others: the fiducial station consider errors, troposphere modeling errors and 
formal errors. Further, we see that for the northern baseline component, no 
one of these three dominates, although the formal error is the smallest; for 
the eastern baseline component, the formal error is the largest. The total 
absolute accuracy inferred for the Spring 1985 HPBT results from the aggregate 
of all contributions is about 1.6 cm in the north and 2.6 cm in the east, or 
6:10° and 1:10’, respectively. 

In the next subsections, we compare this error budget with the experi- 


mental results from this work for day-to-day repeatability of GPS measurement 


and with the results for colocated GPS and VLBI measurement. 


Comparison of the Error Budget with Baseline Repeatability 

Before comparing the results for day-to-day repeatability (Section V and 
Table 7) with the error budget presented in the preceding subsection, we must 
first recognize that not all of the error sources which contribute to the 
total absolute uncertainty will diminish the ability of che GPS-based systems 
to make reproducible measurements on short time scales. Indeed, we note that 
the only error source which is likely to have affected repeatability for the 
HPBT is the formal, or random, error. 

Fiducial coordinate consider errors will not affect repeatability, because 
they will, to the extent that an identical observing schedule was followed on 
all days, be common to all days of the HPBT. Since the schedules were nom- 
inally identical on all days, differing slightly in practice only because of 
occasional outages within the network, we car dismiss fiducial coordinate 
errors as having contributed significantly to degradation of day-to-day repeat- 


ability. Similar arguments may be made in the case of troposphere modeling 


30 


ee ome) 


ee 


a 


oe 


errors, especially in view of the relatively small wet troposphere delays at 
the North American sites. However, this claim is made with less confidence 
than in the case of the fiducial sites, because the character of unmodeled 
horizontal gradients may sometimes change on a time scale of less than the 
six-day span of the HPBT. 

Accepting these assumptions, we predict from our error budget an RMS 
repeatability of about 0.4 cm in the north and 2.4 cm in the east for the 
Mo jave/OVRO baseline between SERIES-X receivers. From the earlier summaries 
given in Section V and Table 7, we have, for the HPBT data, observed values of 
0.6 cm and 2.5 cm, respectively. This is in excellent agreement with the 
prediction of the error budget, although the small sample size (4 measurements) 


leaves open the possibility that this agreement is somewhat specious. 


Comparison of the Error Budget with GPS/VLBI Differences 

Before comparing GPS/VLBI baseline differences with the predictions of the 
GPS error budget, we must first recognize that there is an additional error 
source that contributes to the total uncertainty in the comparison (but not to 
the uncertainty in either the GPS or VLBI result alone). This is the 4 cm 
uncertainty (see Section IV) in the local (length < 1 km) site survey measure- 
ments which must be used at the mobile GPS sites to relate the VLBI- and GPS- 
based measurements. Thus, the total uncertainty for either component in this 
comparison is given by the summation in quadrature of this 4 cm survey error 
and the total (RSS) uncertainty shown in Figure 13 or 14. 

From this, we obtain an uncertainty (one standard deviation) in the 
difference of the GPS and VLBI measurements of 4.3 cm in the north and 4.8 cm 
in the east for the Mojave/OVRO baseline between SERIES-X receivers. 


Consult-—- 


ing the earlier summaries given in Section V and Table 7, we have, from the 


31 


HPBT experimental results, mean values of 2.1 cm anc 5.6 cm, respectively, for 
this baseline, in agreement with the predictions of our error budget. Similar 
conclusions apply to the other GPS/VLBI comparisoas made in Figure 6. 

It should be noted that the uncertainty in these GPS/VLBI intercomparisons 
is dominated by the hypothesized 4 cm error in the local survey measurement. 
If this survey error is reduced to the level of a few millimeters, which is 
certainly within the capability of current techniques, then the uncertainty in 
the VLBI/ GPS intercomparison will decrease substantially, to about 1.8 cm 
(north) and 2.6 cm (east) for the above example of the Mo jave/OVRO SERIES-X 
baseline, enabling a much more stringent test of the accuracy of the GPS-based 
geodetic systems. Because of this fact, new local surveys of the Mojave and 
OVRO sites using mobile VLBI measurement are planned for the Fall of 1987. 
Similar resurveys of the POLARIS VLBI sites are being considered [R. J. Coates 


and J. W. Ryan, personal communication, 1987]. 


VII. Summary and Conclusion 


In this report, we have presented a description of the Spring 1985 High 
Precision Baseline Test (HPBT), in which a collaborative effort was mounted 
under the leadership of the Jet Propulsion Laboratory to conduct a measurement 
campaign involving over a dozen institutions and having fourteen GPS-based 
geodetic systems deployed to ten sites across the United States. In analysis 
of the HPBT data, it was demonstrated that system performance was at a level 
of 1-2:107 for baselines approaching 1000 km in length, thus meeting the 
accuracy objectives of the test. System precision was shown to be better than 


this for some baseline components by a factor of 2-4. Although this level of 


accuracy meets the minimum criterion for usefulness in a program of scientific 
research, it falls short by an order of magnitude, or more, of the performance 


level of current VLBI-based systems. However, insights gained in the course 


- 
of analyzing the HPBT data confirm the expectation that GPS-based geodesy will 
¥ eventually rival the accuracy of VLBI systems. Several specific improvements 
required in the GPS system to reach this accuracy goal have been cited in the 
‘ preceding text. We summarize them here briefly. 
a. Improved fiducial site surveys are required to reduce fiducial 
baseline uncertainty to < 1 cm. 
a b. Improved troposphere calibration data must be taken, particularly 
in regions of high humidity. This will require more and improved 
WVRs, capable of GPS satellite copointing, and improved and 
i standardized surface meteorology sensors. 
> c. Improved antenna design and environmental control are required to 
' reduce multipathing for pseudorange observables to a few 
centimeters. 
d. Improved receivers are required which can view all visible satel- ; 
4 lites, eliminate cycle slips in carrier phase data, synchronize 


time tags to within 1 psec of UTC for both carrier phase and 
pseudorange, and deliver precision (< 10 cm) pseudorange. 

e. Improved analytical techniques are required which will fully exploit 
the above improvements. These include: the use of data from 


multiple days in estimating ephemerides; the use of statistical, or 


em es ‘e , ) 


x stochastic, models as more representative of clock, troposphere and 2 


(possibly) ionosphere behavior; and the use of bias optimization to 


33 


incorporate the discrete character of the range biases into the 
estimation of baselines. 

f. Although it is not in our power to affect the GPS constellation 
itself, we note that, using the most recent launch schedule, the 
current GPS constellation of six Block I satellites will have been 
replaced by twenty-four Block II satellites by the end of 1992. 
This will not only improve observing geometry (given the implementa- 
tion of item (d) above), but it will also permit experiments to be 
conducted at any hour of the day. (Presumably, they will always be 
done at night, when the troposphere and ionosphere are more stable 
and the effect of the ionosphere is minimal.) 

Covariance analysis, combined with our experience with new data collected 
since the HPBT, indicates that when the above improvements have been implemen- 
ted, GPS-based geodetic systems will rival the VLBI-based systems in accuracy, 
while being an order of magnitude less expensive to both obtain and operate. 
This will open the door to the participation in geodetic measurement programs 
by many organizations for which VLBI-based geodesy is now too costly. That 
participation in turn will lead to increased resolution in the measurement of 
regional strain fields and intercontinental crustal motion, leading ultimately 


to more stringent tests of models of tectonic plate driving forces and to an 


improved understanding of the interior structure of the Earth. 


VIII. References 


Bertiger, W. I., S. C. Wu, J. S. Border, S. M. Lichten, B. G. Williams and 
T. J. Wu, High precision GPS orbit determination using March 1985 demon- 
stration data, AIAA 24th Aerospace Sciences Meeting, paper AIAA-86-0089, 


Reno, NV, January 1986. 


Bierman, G. J., Factorization methods for discrete sequential estimation, 


241 pp., Academic Press, New York, NY, 1977. 

Bishop, G. J., J. A. Klobuchar and P. H. Doherty, Multipath effects of the 
determination of absolute ionospheric time delay from GPS signals, Radio 
Sci., 20, 388-396, 1985. 

Blewitt, G., On improving the estimation of relative longitude in GPS-based 
systems, JPL Interoffice Memorandum 335.1-87-41 (internal document), Jet 
Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA, May 1987. 

Blewitt, G., The expectation value approach to optimization of range biases in 


carrier phase observables (abstract), Eos Trans. AGU, 68, 285, 1987. 


Bock, Y., R. I. Abbot, C. C. Counselman III, S. A. Gourevitch, and R. W. King, 
Establishment of three-dimensional geodetic control by interferometry 


with the Global Positioning System, J. Geophys. Res., 90, 7689-7703, 1985. 


Chao, C. C., A new method to predict wet zenith range correction from surface 
measurements, JPL Technical Report 32-1526, 14, pp. 33-41, Jet Propulsion 
Laboratory, Pasadena, CA, 1973. 

Christodoulidis, D. C., D. E. Smith, R. Kolenkiewicz, S. M. Klosko, M. H. 
Torrence, and P. G. Dunn, Observing tectonic plate motions and deforma- 


tions from satellite laser ranging, J. Geophys. Res., 90, 9249-9264, 1985. 


i 
‘ 
' 


¥ 


Counselman, C.C., III, and S. A. Gourevitch, Miniature interferometer terminals 
for earth surveying: ambiguity and multipath with global positioning 


system, IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens., GE-19, 244-252, 1981. 


Crow, R. B., F. R. Bletzacker, R. J. Najarian, G. H. Purcell, Jr., J. I. 
Statman, and J. B. Thomas, SERIES-X final engineering report, JPL Internal 
Document D-1476, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA, August 1984. 

Davidson, J. M. and D. W. Trask, Utilization of mobile VLBI for geodetic mea- 


surements, IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens., GE-23, 426-437, 1985. 


Davidson, J. M., C. L. Thornton, T. H. Dixon, C. J. Vegos, L. E. Young, and 
T. P. Yunck, The March 1985 demonstration of the fiducial network concept: 


a preliminary report, in Proceedings of the First International Symposium 


on Precise Positioning with the Global Positioning System, edited by 


C. Goad, pp. 603-612, NOAA, Rockville, MD, 1985; and TDA Progress Report 


42-85, pp. 212-218, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA, 1986. 
Gary, B. L., S. J. Keihm and M. A. Janssen, Optimum strategies and performance 
for the remote sensing of path-delay using ground-based microwave radiom- 


eters, IEEE Trans. Geosci. Remote Sens., GE-23, 479-484, 1985. 


Hensen, D. J., E. A. Collier and K. R. Schneider, Geodetic applications of the 


Texas Instruments TI-4100 GPS navigator, Proceedings of the First Inter- 


national Symposiua on Precise Positioning with the Global Positioning 


System, edited by C. Goad, pp- 191-200, NOAA, Rockville, MD, 1985. 
Herring, T. A., I. I. Shapiro, T. A. Clark, C. Ma, J. W. Ryan, B. R. Schupler, 

C. A. Knight, G. Lundqvist, D. B. Shaffer, N. R. Vandenberg, B. E. Corey, 

H. F. Hinteregger, A. E. E. Rogers, J. C. Weber, A. R. Whitney, 

G. Elgered, B. 0. Ronnang, and J. L. Davis, Geodesy by radio interfer- 


ometry: evidence for contemporary plate motion, J. Geophys. Res., 91, 


8341-8347, 1986. 


BS u& 


Hothem, L. D., T. Vincenty, and R. E. Moose, Relationship between doppler and 
other advanced geodetic system measurements based on global data, in 


Proceedings of the Third International Geodetic Symposium on Satellite 


Doppler Positioning, New Mexico State University, NM, February 1982. 


Kroger, P. M., G. A. Lyzenga, K. S. Wallace, and J. M. Davidson, Tectenic 
motion in the western United States inferred from very long baseline 


interferometry measurements, 1980-1986, submitted to J. Geophys. Res., 


March 1987. 
Ladd, J. W., and C. C. Counselman III, The Macrometer II™ dual-band inter- 


ferometric surveyor, in Proceedings of the First International Symposium 


on Precise Positioning with the Global Positioning System, edited by C. 


Goad, pp. 175-180, NOAA, Rockville, MD, 1985. 


Lanyi, G., Tropospheric calibration in radio interferometry, in Proceedings of 


the International Symposium on Space Techniques for Geodynamics, edited 


by J. Somogyi and Ch. Reigber, pp. 184-195, IAG/COSPAR, Sopron, Hungary, 
July 9-13, 1984. 

Lichten, S. M., J. S. Border, S.-C. Wu, B. G. Williams, and T. P. Yunck, Pre- 
cise GPS orbit determination results from 1985 field tests, paper 
presented at AIAA/AAS Astrodynamics Conference, Williamsburg, VA, 

August 18-20, 1986. 
Lichten, S. M., and J. S. Border, Strategies for high precision GPS orbit 


determination, submitted to J. Geophys. Res., June 1987. 


Meehan, T. K., J. M. Srinivasan, J. B. Thomas, T. N. Munson, R. E. Neilan and 
L. E. Young, Baseline tests of the JPL ROGUE receiver (abstract), Pro- 


ceedings of the General Assembly, International Union of Geodesy and 


Geophysics, Vancouver, B.C., Canada, 1987. 


——— —— 


> 
: 


Melbourne, W. G., J. M. Davidson, T. H. Dixon, M. P. Golombek, C. L. Thornton 
and C. J. Vegos, GPS measurement system development for regional geodesy: 
operating plan, JPL Internal Document D-3562, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 
Pasadena, CA, August 1986. 

Minster, J. B., and T. H. Jordan, Present-day plate motions, J. Geophys. Res., 
83, 5331-5354, 1978. 

Moyer, T. D., Mathematical formulation of the double-precision orbit determi- 
nation program (DPODP), JPL Technical Report 32-1527, Jet Propulsion 
Laboratory, Pasadena, CA, May 1971. 

NASA, Crustal Dynamics Project catalogue cof site information, NASA/GSFC Tech- 
nical Report X-904-83-14, Goddard Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, MD, 
September 1983. 

Neiian, R. E., An experimental investigation of the effect of GPS satellite 
multipath, ROMI M. S. Thesis, University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI, 1986. 

Robinson, S. E., A new algorithm for microwave delay estimation from water 


vapor radiometer data, TDA Progress Report 42-87, pp. 149-157, Jet 


Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA, 1986. 
Rundle, J. B., and J. H. Whitcomb, A model for deformation in Long Valley, 


California, 1980-1983, J. Geophys. Res., 89, 9371-9380, 1984. 


Ryan, J. W., and C. Ma, Crustal Dynamics Project data analysis: fixed station 


VLBI geodetic results, NASA/GSFC Technical Memorandum 86229, Goddard 


Space Flight Center, Greenbelt, MD, October 1985. 
Savage, J. C., and M. M. Clark, Magmatic resurgence in Long Valley caldera, 


California: possible cause of the 1980 Mammoth Lakes earthquakes, 


“s-"-~ 


Sims, M. L., Phase center variation in the geodetic TI 4100 receiver system's 


conical spiral antenna, in Proceedings of the First International Sym 


posium on Precise Positioning with the Global Positioning System, edited 


Smith, D. E., D. C. Christodoulidis, R. Kolenkiewicz, P. J. Dunn, S. M. Klosko, 
M. H. Torrence, S. Fricke and S. Blackwell, A global geodetic reference 


frame from LAGEOS ranging, J. Geophys. Res., 90, 9221-9234, 1985. 


Sovers, 0. J., and J. S. Border, Observation modei and parameter partials for 
the JPL geodetic GPS modeling software "GPSOMC," JPL Publication 87-21, 
Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadenz, CA, August 1987. 

Sovers, 0. J., and J. L. Fanselow, Observation model and parameter partials 
for the JPL VLBI parameter estimation software "MASTERFIT"-1986, JPL 
Publication 83-39, Rev. 2, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, CA, 
August 1986. 

Sovers, 0. J., J. B. Thomas, J. L. Fanselow, E. J. Cohen, G. H. Purcell, Jr., 
D. H. Rogstad, L. J. Skjerve and D. L. Spitzmesser, Radio interferometric 
determination of intercontinental baselines and earth orientation uti- 


lizing Deep Space Network antennas: 1971 to 1980, J. Gecphys. Res., 89, 


7597-7607, 1984. 
Stephens, S. A., J. M. Davidson, C. L. Thornton and G. Blewitt, GPS receiver 
performance intercomparisons from the 1985 Spring and Fall High Precision 


Baseline Tests (abstract), Eos Trans. AGU, 67, 262, 1986. 


Tapley, B. D., B. E. Schutz and R. J. Eanes, Station coordinates, baselines and 


Earth rotation from LAGEOS laser ranging, J. Geophys. Res., 90, 9235-9248, 


1985. 
Treuhaft, R. N., and G. E. Lanyi, The effect of the dynamic wet troposphere on 


radio interferometric measurements, Radio Sci., 22, 251-265, 1987. 


39 


- - wee we lee 


Wu, S.-C., W. I. Bertiger, J. S. Border, S. M. Lichten, R. F. Sunseri, B. G. 


Williams, P. J. Wolff, and J. T. Wu, OASIS mathematical description, 


V 1.0, JPL Internal Document D-3139, Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Pasadena, 


CA, 1986. 
Wu, S.-C., and C. L. Thornton, OASIS——a new GPS covariance and simulation 


analysis software system, in Proceedings of the First International Sym 


posium on Precise Positioning System, edited by C. Goad, pp. 337-346, 


NOAA, Rockville, MD, 1985. 
Young, L. E., R. £. Neilan and F. R. Bletzacker, GPS satellite multipath: an 


experimental investigation, in Proceedings of the First International Sym 


posium on Precise Positioning with the Global Positioning System, edited 


by C. Goad, pp. 423-432, NOAA, Rockville, MD, 1985. 

Yunck, T. P., Multipath and the geodetic use of P code, JPL Interoffice Memo- 
randum 335.1-331 (internal document), Jet Propulsion Laboratory, 
Pasadena, CA, August 1985. 

Yunck., T. P., and S.-C. Wu, Tracking geosynchronous satellites by very-long- 


baseline interferometry, J. Guidance, Control, and Dynamics, 6, 382-386, 


19835. 


Table 1. Spring 1985 HPBT Participating Institutions and Organizations 


NASA Geodynamics Program 
Applied Research Laboratory 
Air Force Geophysical Laboratory 
Bendix Corporation 
California Institute of Technology 
Crustal Dynamics Project 
Defense Mapping Agency 
Haystack Observatory 
Interferometrics Incorporated 
Jet Propulsion Laboratory 


National Geodetic Survey y 


> 
: 
; 
Z 


Naval Surface Weapons Center 
Pacific Missile Test Center 
r Texas Department of Highways 
Texas Instruments Corporation 
United States Geological Survey 


University Navstar Consortium 


fee 3. Ae "e , ’ 


4 
> 

a 
no 


Table 2. Summary of Field Equipment Information 


Station Receiver WVR2@ Frequency Standard 
Austin, TX ARL TI-4100 Quartz 
Dahlgren, VA ARL TI-4100 Quartz 
Ft. Davis, TX TDH TI-4100 : H-Maser 

AFGL dual-frequency H-Maser 
Hat Creek, CA TI-4100 DSN Prototype Various” 
Mammoth Lakes, CA  ARL TI-4100 Quartz/Rb° 
Mojave, CA JPL SERIES-X CDP JCl H-Maser 
TI TI-4100 Various” 
OVRO, CA JPL SERIES--X CDP Prototype H-Maser 
TI TI-4100 Various? 
Pt. Mugu, CA PMTC TI-4100 Quartz 
Richmond, FL ARL TI-4100 H-Maser 
AFGL dual-frequency H-Maser 
Westford, MA ARL TI-4100 Quartz 
AFGL dual-frequency H-Maser 


? Institutional cognizance of GPS receivers and WVRs used in the HPBT 
is denoted by the first set of initials in these two columns. The meanings of 
those abbreviations are as follows: AFGL, Air Force Geophysical Laboratory; 
ARL, Applied Research Laboratory; CDP, NASA Crustal Dynamics Project; DSN, 
NASA Deep Space Network; JPL, Jet Propulsion Laboratory; PMTC, Pacific Missile 
Testing Center; TDH, Texas Department of Highways; TI, Texas Instruments Cor- 
poration. The different WVR types are as follows. The prototype WVRs were 


developed at JPL for the CDP in 1980-1984. The retrofit WVRs are prototype 


42 


models which have been upgraded by the Bendix Corporation under contract to the 


CDP. The JOl WVR is a new prototype developed at JPL for the CDP in 1984-1985. 


These receivers were operated using Rb clocks on March 31 and April 1; 
quartz oscillators on Aprii 2, 3, and 5; and hydrogen masers on April 4, with 


the objective of investigating the dependence of baseline accuracy on the 


frequency standard. 


© This receiver was operated using a Rb clock on March 31, April 1 and 
April 4, and quartz oscillators on April 2, 3, and 5. No hydrogen maser was 


available at this site. 


43 


918 S9xBT YIOUMBW IOJ SaQBUTPI00D dU] 
saey pue [C861] BW Pue uBAY WOIZ ATID9ITP UayRQ 918 S9TUTeII9OUN JsUL 
Suty °M “Yu Aq peptaoad 19320003 ay3 03 UOFIIEIIOD B puB f[ER61 *VSVN] UOTJeWIOZUT a3TS jo aNZ0TeIeD 


32eforg Sotueukg TeIsNIzy ey2 UT peUTezUOD UOT ZeWI0ZUT ABAANS 9y3 [S861] BW Pue uBhy Jo DHEZS UOTINTOS 


“UOFINTOS 389q INO J9T Jer YOU Op pue LgdH S861 BuTadg ay. wo1z eIep Sq5 UO peseq 


*[9861 ‘uot IeoTUNUMO0D Teuosiad } 


“810119 ST}BWaISAS aTQTSsod 103 juUN0DDe 03 pajuem%ne useq jou 


IGTA T®qOT2 uo peseq a2e ‘sayxe] YyJOUMEW 103 e804} 3dod>oxe *2Tqey Sty. ut peAetdstp saqeutpiz009 [Ty 


00°0* 997°61896z% 


10°0* 698°€9S0%ZZ 


700°0* 886°68Z2St4- 


€10°0* €65°%S0429S- 


£00°0 


+ SIT°O17Z64%1 


S00°0+ O78°LIE196 


O0OTY-IL*194V 


OOTY-IL*194V 


p10j3399" 


puoayoty 


10°0+ €€L°BSE9BERE 600°0* 6S2°8978Z74- 700°0* L10°€7960%z- OOT#-IL AST TBA suemo 
10°O* S66°9898€8E 600°0+ 89€°Z08Z/%4- 700°0* E0E*ZZ470T4z- X-Sa1¥uasS ASTRA suamo 
10°O* €S9°L77899€ O10°0F SZLZ°1LS9%94- 700°0* 066°€9S9SEZ- OOT#-IL aaeloy 
10°O* 1[UuS°Z97899E O10°0+ OSE*ET99%94- 700°0+ ESE*%Z79SEz- X-Sa1¥4aS aaelow 
0Z°O+ LSZ°9ZLS/8E 002°0* 0%2°Z0282%7%- 00Z°O* SS6°lE%y7HyzZ- OOT?-IL Saxe] yOUMEW 
10°O* EVE°6ILL9T4 Z10°O+ LI9°6LSEZI4- S00°0* 662° 1Z8€ZSz- OOT7-IL 49019 3eR 
00°0* O£€9°Ev0ZEZE 800°0* 8ES*6S0ZEES- €00°O* 6S2°161"ZET- 0OT”-IL* 1D4Vv STABq *3g 
(S82930m) z (S19j0m) A (s2930m) x JBATII904 uot3#3S 
SO9IVUFPIOOD JUSUMUOW UOTIBIS DT1IVSeD0eH TFzOCTIg YW ‘*E BTqRL 
y 3 ® 4 ” ‘ rT) 


4G 


SE FP ree | 


= 
» 


-* 
> 


~ 


——_ 


Table 4. Offsets of Antenna Phase Centers from Station Reference Monuments 


Station Receiver East (meters) North (meters) Vertical (meters) 
“ 
oa Ft. Davis AFGL -39.150 -61.521 3.412 
Ft. Davis TI-4100 0.000 0.000 1.096 
Hat Creek TI-4100 0.000 0.000 0.346 
Mammoth Lakes TI-4100 0.000 0.000 wer 
' Mo jave SERIES-X 0.000 -0.625 0.778 
Mo jave TI-4100 0.000 0.000 1.744 
, Owens Valley | SERIES-X 0.005 ~0.625 0.906 
:. Owens Valley TI-4100 0.000 0.000 1.749 
Richmond AFGL -11.772 -30.567 6.569 
Richmond TI-4100 0.000 0.000 2.764 | 
Westford AFGL 3.470 -45.131 0.742 
‘ Westtord TI-4100 -0.003 -0.017 2.804 
4 
‘ The offsets given reference the effective phase centers for the dual- 
- frequency observable. The sign sense of these offsets is antenna-monument= ‘ 
€ offset. 
‘ 
; * The TI-4100 antenna at Mammoth Lakes was stowed and redeployed each 
" day. The vertical offsets in meters for the separate days were as follows for 
“a March 31, 1985, through April 5, 1985, respectively: 1.892, 1.797, 1.803, 
i; 1.800, 1.803, and 1.826. 
ail 


45 


= = 2 SR FP eas 


——s .- 5 


Table 5. Station Monument Identifications 


Site Monument 
Station Receiver Number Inscription 


Ft. Davis® AFGL,TI-4100 7216 HARVARD RM 4 1980 


Hat Creek TI-4100 7218 LM No. 1 M 


Mammoth Lakes TI-4100 Dept. Interior, Center 
for Earthquake Research 


Mojave SERIES-X MOJAVE NCMN NO. 1 1983 
Mojave TI-4100 MOJAVE NCMN NO. 3 1983 
Owens Valley SERIES-X MOBLAS 7114 1979 

Owens Valley TI-4100 BP ARIES 3 

Richmond* AFGL, TI-4100 TIMER 1962 


Westford@ AFGL,TI-4100 OCP 3 


All data displayed in this table are taken from the Crustal Dynamics 
Project Catalogue of Site Information (NASA, 1983], except for that relating 
to the Mammoth Lakes site, for which the monument was established in the field 


during the HPBT by the U.S. Geological Survey. 


° The AFGL and TI-4100 receivers at Ft. Davis, Richmond and Westford 


were referenced to the same monument. 


g-Ol X 4° Ppereptsuog @TVIG sIeUTPI00O 
vesn 1 pezept suo YIOTD sousr9azoy 

Sites dee ¢1-9l x ¢°0 
99U82 991 Joy persptsuo9 S19 {oOWeIeY UOTIETPeY ABTOS 


- 
one +s 


— 
Ko 
ore 


gu0FIeI9TI00y 


P 
pezeptsuog atToq-A 


pezeptsuog @[0q-x 


be ee od 


,esu 1°0O peizsptsuo) OLN - Tin 
w> OI pereptsuo) S9eUTPI00D 193uU99005 


oot te 


w2 T pe19ptsuog9 sazsydsodozy Aaq yRTUeZ 


svuuezue Sid ‘IGTA AUTT wo pereptsuog qghPaans 9318 @TTqOW 


wo 4 9P229PTsuog q®228UTPz009 uoTawIS TeFONPTY 


3y3tT JO peeds = 9 2 xX 998 Q°OT poe eutisy sesetg o8uey 


— * 
——e SO 2 
: 


@S8tTOUu BzTYA ‘IT38BYI0RS 298 1 poe zeuwtisy e211 2jyezl990edg pue uoTIeIS 
wy Zz pe ewT3 sy SO9ISUTPAOOD UOTIBIS FT TQOW 

@194Me8 19 wo 0°9 
SHAM OWAO ‘eaefow w> 0°Z pe ew sq sezeydsodozy 39m YITUSZ 
998 /my | pezewT3sq yoody 38 S8TIFIOTSA 93TT197"S 


wy OZ pezewyt3sg yoody 38 sajeUuTp1009 9371197" 


Aquye 190un quewzee1] sa owerey 
F20F4d V 


819}0WBIBY PeI9pTsuoD pue pezeUT sy °*9 FTqQPL 


‘ung pue y3z1eqg ‘33e199000ds 


ay JO ouetd ay 02 [eWAOU S$9910j [epow 02 pasN st 33T[1[993eS 19d Az9{0OWeIed UOTIBI9T9I08 2u0,, 


‘uns pue yjIeg ‘3 3e19900ds 


942 jO suetd 943 ut BUTAT 899203 TOpow 02 paesn ore 3RTTT99"S 190d sz9jOWeIed 9oURIDETIO2 omL,, 


*siajoweied parepzsuod 30 UOTSSNISTpP B 103 [A UOTIIEg 92g. 


*20119 UOTIeTIBA aseyd BeuUsqUe Sq5 puw 10119 ABZAINS 338 [RIOT 


*z0119 SUT [9S9eq IGIA WOIZ SUOTINGTIQUOD spN{oUT seTJUTeIZe90UN TazOTAd B UOTIeIS STTqGow puP TRFOMPTA, 


*H90T2 X-SaIWaS OUAO 


9u2 SBA STYI *‘sosBD YsOW 10y ‘*90U9I9J91 OWT} BINTOSQe UB sUTJeP 02 PeXTJ 9q YSHM AIOTO 21ZutTs Ve 


48 


Table 7. Baseline Results from 


the Spring 1985 HPBT 


Baseline®: 


Date 


OVRO(SX)/MOJAVE(SX) 245 km 


East 


North 


Vertical 


Length 


90 


92 


93 


5.3 (2.2) (2.7) 
~0.5 (1.7) (2.3) 
2.4 (1.6) (2.2) 


3.4 (2.8) (3.2) 


5.8 (0.4) (1. 
4.8 (0.3) (1. 
6.0 (0.3) (1. 


6.0 (0.9) (1. 


(1.8) (3. 
(2.1) (2. 
(1.4) (3. 


(1.9) (3. 


(1.1) (2.0) 
(0.9) (1.9) 
(0.8) (1.9) 


(1.6) (1.9) 


x2/a.£.4 


2.1 (1.4) (6.7) 
2.5 


1.6 


5.6 (0.4) (7. 


0.6 


2.4 


(2.0) (6. 


(0.5) (7.4) 


Baseline®: 


Date 


OVRO(SX)/MOJAVE(TI) 245 km 


East 


North 


Vertical 


90 


92 


93 


of 


-0.1 (2.4) (2.8) 
5.0 (2.1) (2.4) 
7.4 (2.0) (2.4) 
9.4 (2.7) (3.1) 


7.6 (3.6) (3.9) 


5.9 (0.6) (1. 
4.9 (0.4) (1. 
6.6 (0.4) (1. 
6.6 (0.9) (1. 


3.7 (1.1) Q. 


7 (2.4) (G3. 
ol (2.1) (2. 
4 (1.6) (3. 
.1 (2.0) (3. 


.9 (2.6) (3. 


5.6 (1.8) (6.8) 
3.6 


2.2 


5.7 (0.5) (7. 


1.0 


3.0 


4 (1.5) (6. 
ol 


ae 


so <2. . : 
we TL, et Y Fo eee | 


Table 7. Baseline Results from the Spring 1985 HPBT (Continued ) 


Baseline®: OVRO(TI)/MOJAVE(SX) 245 km 


Date East North Vertical Length 


90 10.0 (2.3) (2.7) 6.6 (0.5) (1.4) -2.7 (1.2) (3.5) -0.4 (1.1) 
91 2.9 (3.0) (3.3) 4.3 (0.7) (1.5) -19.9 (1.9) (3.2) -1.7 (1.2) 
92 ~2.3 (2.2) (2.6) 5.3 (0.5) (1.3) -15.3 (2.7) (2.9) -5.5 (1.2) 
93 3.6 (2.1) (2.4) 6.3 (0.5) (1.4) -10.5 (1.7) (3.4) -3.3 (1.0) 


94 4.2 (2.8) (3.2) 6.4 (0.9) (1.0) -1.8 (2.0) (3.3) -3.3 (1.6) 


3.6 (2.3) (7.0) 5.9 (0.4) (7.0) -8.1 (3.8) (7.5) -2.8 (1.0) 
RMs“* 4.7 0.9 Pp 1.9 


x2/a.£.4 3.7 2.3 


Baseline®: OVRO(TI)/MOJAVE(TI) 245 km 


Date East North Vertical 


(0.6) (1.5) -2 (2.5) 
(0.4) (1.4) . -8) 
(0.5) (1.3) . -5) 
(0.5) (1.4) : 8) 
(0.9) (1.0) ‘ 1) 


(1.1) (1.9) : -7) 


(0.4) (7.0) : -9) 


Sy 7s ee 
em eg EEO Pre. 


Table 7. 


Baseline Resulte from the Spring 1985 HPBT (Continued) 


Baseline®: 


Date 


OVRO(SX)/HAT CREEK(TI) 484 km 


East 


North 


Vertical 


Length 


90 
92 
93 


94 


1.7 (3.0) (3 
-7 (3.1) (3 


4 (2.7) (3. 


-1 (5.2) (6 


9 (5.1) (5. 


-8) 


-5) 


3) 


-0) 


7) 


0.0 (0.6) (2. 
3.1 (0.8) (3. 
1.4 (0.7) (3. 
5.0 (1.9) (2. 


6.7 (2.0) (4. 


-l (2.9) (3. 
-2 (3.0) (3. 
2 (2.3) (4. 
-6 (3.5) (4. 


-5 (3.6) (4. 


-0.5 (1.7) 
-1.9 (1.6) 
-4.0 (1.4) 
-9.3 (3.0) 


-7 (2.0) 


x2/d.£.4 


(3.2) (7. 


3) 


1.7 (1.0) (7. 


2.0 


5.2 


(2.3) (6. 


(1.2) 


Baseline®: 


Date 


OVRO(TI)/HAT 


East 


CREEK(TI) 484 km 


North 


Vertical 


90 
91 
92 
93 


94 


(2.6) 
(2.4) 
(2.8) 
(2.3) 
(5.1) 


(5.1) 


(0.6) 
(0.6) 
(0.8) 
(0.7) 
(1.8) 
(1.7) 


(2.5) (3. 


(2.7) (3. 


(2.9) (3. 


(2.4) (3. 


(3.5) (4. 


(3. 


(2.2) 


(0.8) 


(1. 


tt, TE Pe ees 8: 


F 


ae ee 


Table 7. Baseline Results from the Spring 1985 HPBT (Continued) 


Baseline*: MOJAVE(SX)/HAT CREEK(TI) 729 km 


Date East North Vertical Length 


90 4.4 (3.6) (5.2) -4.8 (0.8) (4. «4 (2.8) (4. -2.6 (1.9) (5.2) 
91 2.3 (3.8) (5.3) -3.0 (1.0) (4. -2 (3.0) (4. -5.2 (1.7) (5.1) 
92 8.4 (3.4) (4.6) -0.6 (0.9) (4. -2 (3.0) (4. ~6.1 (1.7) (4.9) 
93 6.5 (3.1) (4.4) -4.2 (0.9) (4. -9 (2.5) (4. -8.0 (1.6) (4.8) 


94 19.8 (7.2) (8.6) -1.9 (2.5) (3. 4 (4.6) (5. -12.4 (4.3) (5.3) 


4.5 (3.3) (7.3) -3.2 (0.9) (7. 9 (2.9) (7. -6.0 (1.3) (7.4) 


6.6 1.8 . 2.6 


x2/a.£.4 3.2 3.4 


Baseline#: MOJAVE(TI)/HAT CREEK(TI)729 


Date East North Vertical 


90 -O (3.7) (5. ° 9) (4. ° -4) 
91 -O (3.1) (4. ° -8) (4. . -9) 
92 -9 (3.2) (4. . -9) (4. . -9) 
93 -5 (3.0) (4. ° 9) (4. . -6) 
94 -7 (7.1) (8. ° -6) (3. . -6) 


(6.3) (7. ‘ -1) (5. ‘ -1) 


(1.3) (6. ‘ -2) (7. ‘ -3) 


Table 7. Baseline Results from the Spring 1985 HPBT (Continued) 


This table gives offsets of solutions from VLBI-based values. 


The “baseline result" is the leftmost of the three numbers in each column. 
The other two numbers, in parentheses, denote the formal standard error and the 
total absolute error, respectively. These differ in that the latter includes 
contributions from systematic error sources. All values are in centimeters, 


except for w"/6.8.. which is dimensionless. 


* Receiver types are denoted by SX (SERIES-X) or TI (TI-4100). The 
sign sense for coordinates of the baseline Station A/Station B is Baseline = 
A - B, where A and B are the respective station vectors. 

° This is a weighted mean, with weights given by the inverse squares of 


the formal standard errors. The formai standard error of the mean = 


RMS//N - 1. 


© The weighted RMS is computed with respect to the weighted mean and 


does not account for error in the mean. 


d 


x2 per degree of freedom is calculated using formal standard 


errors. 


A FIDUCIAL STATION 
4 MOBILE STATION 


Figure 1. A schematic picture of North America as it would appear from a 
GPS satellite passing over the Galapagos Islands is shown. The sites to which 
mobile and fiducial receivers were deployed during the Spring 1985 HPBT are 


denoted by open and closed triangles, respectively. 


ewe TL , SRT eee 


H% QUASAR 


GPS SATELLITE 
~~ 


IY 


@ FIDUCIAL STATION 
© MOBILE STATION 


Figure 2. A schematic illustration of the fiducial network approach for 
GPS-based geodesy is shown. The fiducial station data enable the simultaneous 
estimation of GPS satellite orbits and mobile station locations. VLBI obser- 
vations establish accurate fiducial station baselines and tie the GPS results 


to the inertial frame of the quasars. 


50 F- 


UNCERTAINTY, cm 


26 


10 


L_YZZ 


hehathathetet 


LENGTH = 235 km 


DATA TYPE: CARRIER 
INTEGRATED 
DOPPLER 


A PRIORI ORBIT 
UNCERTAINTY 10m 


WITHOUT FIDUCIAL 
STATION 


F WITH FIDUCIAL 
STATIONS 


VERTICAL EAST 
ACCURACY 


from the Spring 1985 HPBT for the Mojave/Owens Valley baseline. 


two scenarios are displayed, illustratirg the expected improvement in accuracy 


NORTH 


Figure 3. Covariance analysis results show expected baseline accuracies 


’ resulting from utilization of the fiducial network approach. 


Results for 


—— t La | 7 Aa t 7 i t t Ls t 1 _— -. As 
- RMS (N)=0.6 cm 4 
_ RMS (E) =2.4 cm ~ 
5+ + oul 
= _ = 
= 
= 5 4 
p= 
cx 
oO 
2 - 4 
~ = 
0 _ — 
+ VLBI ’ 
= a ' 
| LENGTH = 245km : 4 
i 4 A = | a \ i i i. | A. i i A , A. A A. 
TT t 
-5 0 5 
EAST ‘cm) 


Figure 4. Day-to-day repeatability and comparison to collocated VLBI for 
the OVRO/Mojave baseline between the two SERIES-X receivers is shown. Repeat- 
ability about the mean in the north is 0.6 cm (RMS), or 3:10”, while in the 
east it is 1:10’. The GPS-based result differs by about 6 cm, or 2:107 an 
the horizontal plane from the colocated VLBI measurement. This difference is 
larger than can be readily explained and may be due to errors in the local 


surveys correcting for the physical separations of the GPS and VLBI antennas. 


57 


T T T T T T T Fee T 
4 
s 
s 
4 
¢ 4 
r y 
¢ 
s 
/ 
¢ 
¢ 
- , = 
¢ 
-1n7 s 
1:10 e 
/ 
= 7 198 
= 5+ Ps 5:10 si 
- 
_ e - 
= 4 er 
Ww - . 
E y _- 
< = ’ a” 4 
Oo . a® 
7 
2 6 
Ww 4 a ise 
¢ - 
/ - 
e. - 
‘ e- 
. e-- 
4 oe * 
~ 4 ao 4 
4 - 
- 
Pi re 
-e 
4 - 
- 
| ” Ug @ : 
¢ oe 
55 ® 
- 
e. 
-. «& 
i 
0 = 4 4 = = L . 1 1 4 1 
500 1000 


BASELINE LENGTH (km) 


Figure 5. The day-to-day RMS repeatability about the mean of the north 
component is shown for all baselines connecting the receivers at the Mojave, 
OVRO, Hat Creek and Mammoth Lakes sites. This repeatability consistently 
falls near 10°, or better, for all of these baselines, which range in length 


from 7U km to 729 km. 


10 il LJ , i] t ' A tT 1 ‘ ' ' t T t 
O OVRO/MOJAVE 


O HAT CREEK/OVRO 


4 MOJAVE/HAT CREEK 


r ~ 
= 
= o—+ _ 
pu 
= VLBI 
= + © . 
A 
A 4 


a EAST (cm) 


| Figure 6. Differences between colocated GPS and VLBI measurement are 

) 

| r shown for the eight baselines connecting the five receivers located at the 
Mojave, OVRO and Hat Creek sites. (See Table 2.) The Systematic grouping of 


results by station pairs strongly suggests the presence of local survey errors. 


59 


A a \ 
+ / 


ia a lie 


T T ’ i * q a 
mo FT. DAVIS 
E 
= 
7) 
cc q 7 
9 OVRO 
cc 
Ww 
Ww 
Zz aa 
al 
Ww 
7) 
< 
o 
gee __ | WESTFORD 
i ee _ oe 2222257 >>4 RICHMOND 
S _ apese= 4 4 | a 1 i 
0 ne a ° 
20¢ 400 600 aed 


BASELINE LENGTH (cm) 
Figure 7. Consider error (RSS of all three components; see Section VI) 
in the mobile baselines, resulting from fiducial station location error, as a 
function of mobile baseline length is shown for the Spring 1985 HPBT. An 


uncertainty of 4 cm was assumed in each coordinate for each of the four 


fiducial receivers. 


4 
t 
& 
ns 


10 
i. 
om 
E 4 
= 
w 
_ a 
< 
5 
oO _— 
77) 
w a 
c 
or 
5 l i L l | 1 l l 1 l l 1 l l | l 
6 7 8 
4 ‘JTC (hours) 
a 
z Wy 
= 
- 
Ss 1k 
Ww 
c 
c _— 
ro) 
So ok 
oll VS aoe a as a —_— a , | 4 i — 
-1.0 -0.5 0 0.5 1.0 


TIME OFFSET FROM ONE SIDEREAL DAY (hours) 


Figure 8. Post-fit residuals and cross-correlations for the TI-4100 
carrier phase data of April 3 and 4, 1985, are shown. These data have been 
meteorologically and ionospherically calibrated, double-differenced (GPS 6 and 
GPS 8 transmitters, Mojave and OVRO receivers), and fitted to a tenth-order 
polynomial. Multipath error will be periodic on a sidereal day, resulting in 
correlation between the upper and lower plots. The high correlation for an 


offset of exactly one sidereal day indicates substantial multipathing error 


for the TI-4100 antenna. 


RESIDUALS (cm) 


CORRELATION 


10 
= 
5E 
0 — 
l l l l | i i 1 i i i l i l | 
j 6 7 8 
7 UTC (hours) 
i os 
° OOO pT ON mn Oe AO vod ott eh enn eet, 
a l — l l l l i l | co a? a i 


TIME OFFSET FROM ONE SIDEREAL DAY (hours) 


Figure 9. Post-fit residuals and cross correlations for the SERIES-X 
carrier phase data of April 3 and 4, 1985, are shown. These data have been 
treated as described in the caption for Figure 8. The small correlation for 


an offset of exactly one sidereal day indicates relatively small multipath 


error for the SERIES-X antennas. 


3 T T T T T T “"T T T T T T T T T T T T T 
‘RCRA S es NTS NES ee A PRIORI = INFINITY _ 
me ee Ears Biss cegaice stent ? 

a one 

2 ae d ees 
_ o 
Ww 
” aa ~ 
2) 
2 aa 
F ° 4 
- 
4 a re 4 

Q co A PRIORI = ZERO 

1oO_----------------------------------- $55 5 - 

me _— = 

ULTIMATE SCAMS CURRENT SCAMS 

he ee 4 
ULTIMATE J01 CURRENT J01 

0 a 4 i i | 1 rn ot 1 | A i L i it L LL i L 
0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 


TROPOSPHERE A PRIORI (cm) 

Figure 10. The formal error in the vertical baseline component for the 
Mojave/OVRO baseline, between TI-4100 receivers, is shown as a function of 
troposphere a priori uncertainty. Also shown are the current and ultimate 
calibration accuracies for two of the WVR models currently in use in JPL's GPS 
field exercises [S. E. Robinson, personal communication, 1987]. From this 
plot, we infer that in the case of the Spring 1985 HPBT, external troposphere 
calibration data contributed little to the precision of estimated vertical 


baseline components. (See Section VI.) 


63 


0” agp eee 4 


4 


“NSNANANSANYS 


NANI TIT 


WAVAVAWAS 
NAZNAZNZN SY 


\ 


FORMAL ERROR (cm) 


NF NTN 
NANZN 
V 


yy» 


NAN 
\N4N¢ 
“N4NINTI CF 


SNANANG 


\ 


SHH 


CNSNANSINVING 
“NFNANANSZNY 
“NSN INISS 
“NYNSANSANG 


>>» 


La 


MOJAVE/MAMMOTH 


BASELINE 

Figure 11. The formal errors in the north for the OVRO/Mammoth (70 km), 
OVRO/Mojave (245 km) and Mo jave/Mammoth (313 km) baselines are Shown for a 
variety of hypothetical fiducial Outage scenarios. These include Single- 
Station Outages at Westford, Richmond and Ft. Davis (cases b, c and d) and a 
two-station Outage involving Westford and Richmond (case e). In the latter 
case, Ft. Davis, Mojave and OVRO are used as a more localized fiducial network. 
The formal errors for the standard case of a four-station fiducial network 


(with no Outages) of Westford, Richmond, Ft. Davis and OVRO are shown as case 


64 


- 
245 km 313 km 
a. FOUR FIDUCIAL STATIONS 
4+- (STANDARD CASE) eS. - 
’ b. THREE FIDUCIAL STATIONS: * 
4 NO FT. DAVIS k 
c. THREE FIDUCIAL STATIONS: " 
= NO RICHMOND 
a) . d. THREE FIDUCIAL STATIONS; 4 
x NO WESTFORD 
° e. LOCAL FIDUCIAL NETWORK 
= = f. FIVE FIDUCIAL STATIONS 
z a 
= 2 ~~ Py ON as , 
S Sw 
(e) 70 km Pai ’ 
7 G Pt os 
IN ‘ O SAW 
7 22 WN| 
IN © inN Vv\ 
q * 8 € @ ef 4 Ze v~ e 
/ lez WwW 
IN as AN 
|7 “7UN 
>= + —ePIAN 
WAY \ NS VMN 
Niz “UN | 4 *~ 44YUN 
9 ™~ ae at N \ SAW. | 
A OVRO/MAMMOTH OVRO/MOJAVE MOJAVE/M 4MMOTH 
> 
j BASELINE 
* 
x Figure 12. The formal errors in the east for the OVRO/Mammoth (70 km) e 
: OVRO/Mojave (245 km) and Mojave/Mammoth (313 km) baselines are shown for a 
variety of hypothetical fiducial Outage scenarios. The case designations have 
the same meaning as in Figure ll. 
Ss. 
WE 
PF a 
f 
‘ea 
_ 65 
*- 


‘ . 4 ts eet 
=> Ba Pees ae (eet , .¥ ; 
aS ae 


4 
TOTAL 
(RSS) 
L 4 
GEO- SOLAR COORD. EARTH FIDUCIAL HORIZ. FORMAL 

; ys CENTER RAD. SCALE ORIENT. COORD. TROP. ERROR 
> 2 
: 5 

5 2+ ad 

a 
q x ‘ 
4 Ee 

2 
{ re) 

O ‘ 
4 WN 
| L S : 
Ls \N 
‘ 
| \ 
<N} . 
‘ NRA 


SOURCE OF ERROR 


Figure 13. The total error budget for the north component of the 245 km 
OVRO/Mojave baseline between the SERIES-X receivers is shown. This error 
budget includes the contributions from all significant error sources, including 
consider errors, modeling errors in estimated parameters, and random, or 


formal, errors. 


66 


GEO- SOLAR COORD. EARTH FIDUCIAL HORIZ. FORMAL 
CENTER RAD. SCALE ORIENT. COORD. TROP. ERROR 


x 


CONTRIBUTION (cm) 
N 
t 


SOURCE OF ERROR 


Figure 14. The total error budget for the east component of the 245 km 


OVRO/Mojave baseline between the SERIES-X receivers is shown. This error 


budget includes contributions as noted for Figure 13. 


