brand new 


WELLS 
FARGO 


This PDF is a scanned version of a historical document initially released in print form. It has been made as accessible as 
possible without significantly altering its appearance. Accessibility enhancements include tagging using Adobe Acrobat, 
providing alternate text for charts, graphs, and images, and adjusting text and background colors for better contrast. 


Font size and line spacing were left unchanged to preserve the document’s appearance and content. If you require an 
accommodation, please contact us at 1-877-644-7819, send an email to wellsfargoadacoordinator@wellsfargo.com, 
or write to us at PO Box 6995 Portland, OR 97228-6995. 


11 


22 


26 


30 


TO OUR OWNERS 

Paul Hazen and Dick Kovacevich tell you 
about the brand new opportunities ahead 
for your company. 


BRAND NEW OPPORTUNITIES 
They're everywhere you go in the new 
Wells Fargo — from retail banking and 
mortgages — to online banking and 
business banking. 


HELPING OUR COMMUNITIES CREATE 
OPPORTUNITIES 

Opportunities to help our communities 
succeed are everywhere across Wells Fargo. 


THE BUSINESSES OF WELLS FARGO 
We're #1 — or among the leaders — in just 
about every major facet of financial services. 


BOARD OF DIRECTORS, 
SENIOR BUSINESS OFFICERS 
AND CORPORATE EXECUTIVES 


OUR STORES STATE BY STATE 
Our stores — almost 6,000 of them — are the 
best place to sell and serve our customers. 


FINANCIAL REVIEW 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 


Wells Fargo & Company (NYSE:WFC) is a diversified 
financial services company — providing banking, 
insurance, investments, mortgage and consumer 
finance from almost 6,000 stores and other distribu- 
tion channels across North America. We are the 
product of 1,500+ mergers in 147 years including, 
most recently, the merger involving Norwest 
Corporation and Wells Fargo & Company. This report 
presents combined results as if the merger had been 
in effect for all periods presented. 


At year-end 1998, we had $202 billion in assets, 7th 
largest among our U.S, peers. The market value of 
our stock was $65.7 billion, ranking us 3rd among 
our U.S. peers and 7th among our global peers. 
We have a team of 102,000 very talented people. 


Our corporate headquarters is in San Francisco, but 
we're decentralized so every local Wells Fargo store 

is a headquarters for satisfying all our customers’ 
financial needs and helping them succeed financially. 


Our trademark, the stagecoach, is the symbol of 
Wells Fargo’s role in the development of the Western 
United States and stands for our pride in “coming 
through” for our customers, a hallmark of our 
company since 1852. 


FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS 

In this report we make forward looking statements 

about the company’s financial condition, results of 

operations, plans, objectives and future performance 

and business. When we use the words “believe,” 

“expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” “may,” “will” or similar 

expressions, we are making forward looking statements. 

These forward looking statements involve inherent risks 

and uncertainties, A number of factors — many of 

which are beyond the control of the company — could 

cause actual results to differ from those in our forward 

looking statements. These factors include: 

+ changes in political and economic conditions, interest 
rate fluctuations, 

+ technological changes (including the “Year 2000” data 
systems compliance issue), 

* customer disintermediation, 

* competitive product and pricing pressures in the 
company’s geographic and product markets, 

* equity and fixed income market fluctuations, 

* personal and commercial customers’ bankruptcies, 

+ inflation, 

* changes in law, 

+ changes in fiscal, monetary, regulatory and tax policies, 

*monetary fluctuations, 

+ credit quality and credit risk management, 

*mergers and acquisitions, 

* the integration of merged and acquired companies, 

* success in gaining regulatory approvals when required. 

Also, actual results could differ from those predicted in 

our forward looking statements because of factors 

relating to the combination of the former Wells Fargo 

and the former Norwest Corporation, including the 

following: expected cost savings from the merger are 

not fully realized within the expected time frame or addi- 

tional or unexpected costs are incurred; and costs or 

difficulties related to the integration of the former Wells 

Fargo and the former Norwest Corporation are greater 

than expected. 


opportunities. 


The new Wells Fargo has 15 million customers, but we have on average 


only about one-fourth of their financial services business. Opportunity! 


Plenty of market share opportunities are ahead. We're y (from left): Chief Operating Officer Les 
Dick Kovacevich, and Financial Officer Rod Jacobs. They're the Office of the Chairman and involved as a 


oranc new opportunities 


ro our owners [here are hundreds of thousands of words in this 
annual report. You need to remember only three. They sum up the 
exciting future of your company. Brand — New — Opportunities. 
Throughout this report, we describe the brand new opportunities 
ahead for our customers, team members, communities and for you, 
our owners. Your new company — the result of the recent merger 
of equals involving Norwest Corporation and Wells Fargo & 
Company — already is the premier banking franchise west of the 
Mississippi. Our vision is to become the premier financial services 


company in all of North America. 


opportunities 


Everywhere you look in the new Wells Fargo, 


there are new opportunities —to satisfy more of 


our customers’ financial needs, to attract new 


customers, and to serve customers when, where 


and how they want to be served. 


@ Community Banking- 42% 

© Specialized Lending - 14% 

@ Investments & Insurance - 11% 

@ Consumer Finance - 9% 

@ Home Mortgages -9% 
Business Banking- 9% 
Commercial Real Estate- 6% 


Approximate percent of after-tax profit based 
on historical average and future expectations. 


Yes, we’re #1 in several important segments of the 
financial services industry. We’re #1 in retail banking 
cross-sell among our peers, mortgage originations, small busi- 
ness lending, farm lending, online financial services, 
supermarket banking, student loans, commercial real estate 
lending and insurance agency sales by a banking organization. 
We’re #1 in total stores across North America and total stores 
along the NAFTA‘ borders with Mexico and Canada. We’re 
among the top five in middle-market lending, correspondent 
banking, auto finance, mutual funds under management and 
debit card transactions. We’re proud of that leadership. 
We’d much rather focus, however, on our potential for 
even more market share growth. Behind every one of those 
industry leading positions are tremendous untapped 
opportunities. These are the same kind of opportunities 
two entrepreneurs named Henry Wells and William G. Fargo 


‘North American Free Trade Agreement 


4 TO OUR OWNERS 


DIVERSITY OF BUSINESSES 


Our diversity of businesses makes 
us much more than a bank. We're 
a diversified financial services 
company. We're competing ina 
highly fragmented and fast grow- 
ing industry: Financial Services. 
This helps us weather downturns 
that inevitably affect any one 
segment of our industry. 


pursued 147 years ago after the 
California gold rush. They helped 
create the US. service 
economy — by reducing time and 
distance relative to money. They 
saw opportunity not just in what 
had been taken out of the ground 
but in what was yet to be mined. 
They were pioneers in cross-selling, 
too. They weren’t content with a 
stagecoach transportation company. 
They wanted their customers’ 
banking business, safe keeping 
business, delivery of goods business 
and mail business. They delivered 
products, services and information 
across the American frontier and 
the world. 

It’s the same for the new Wells 
Fargo today. We deliver products, 
services and information when, 
where and how the customer wants 
them. We serve more than 15 million customers. The vast 
majority consider Wells Fargo their primary financial services 
provider. That seems impressive. But take a closer look. On 
average, we have only about one-fourth of the financial ser- 
vices business of those 15 million customers. That means every 
day our own customers are giving three-fourths of their 
business to our competitors. 

That’s opportunity. Starting on page 11, we examine 
our presence in four important areas of our industry. 
We show you the great opportunities we have to earn more 
of our customers’ business in each of those areas — retail 
banking, mortgage and home equity lending, online banking 
and business banking. In each of those areas, “coming 
through” for our customers means not just handling trans- 
actions for them, it means building full-service relationships. 
We are in the money business. We help our customers become 
financially successful. 


(S in millions, except per share amounts) 


AS REPORTED 
FOR THE YEAR Jak 
Net income $ 2,499 (22)% 
Net income applicable to common stock 2,456 (22) 
Earnings per common share BS? 1.50) (21) 
Diluted earnings per common share 1.48 (21) 
Dividends declared per common share 70 615 14 
Average common shares outstanding 1,634.6 (1) 
Diluted average common shares outstanding ‘1,657.8 (1) 
Profitability ratios . : 
Net income to average total assets (ROA) 0 1.37% (24) 
Net income applicable to common stock to average i 
common stockholders’ equity (ROE) ) 12.81 (23) 
Efficiency ratio pe 68.5% 62.8% 9 
Average loans ia 3 $106,205 $104,137 2 
Average assets A 188,355 182,250 3 
Average core deposits fi 123,801 120,489 3 
Net interest margin 5.79% 5.86% (1) 
AT YEAR END 
Securities available for sale $ 31,997 $ 27,872 5) | 
Loans 107,994 106,311 2 
Allowance for loan losses 3,134 3,062 2; 
Goodwill 7,664 8,062 (5) 
Assets 202,475 185,685 9 
Coredeposits 132,289 122,327 8 
Common stockholders’ equity 20,296 19/315 5 
Stockholders’ equity ~ 20,759 19,778 5 
Tier 1 capital 12,412 11,511 8 
Total capital (Tiers 1 and 2) 16,733 15,801 6 
Capital ratios 
Common stockholders’ equity to assets 10.02% 10.40% (4) 
Stockholders’ equity to assets 10.25 10.65 (4) 
Risk-based capital 
Tier 1 capital 8.08 8.16 (1) 
Total capital 10.90 11.20 (3) 
Leverage 6.58 6.72 Jo (2) 
Book value per common share 5) 12:35 GS lideys 4 
Team Members (active, full-time equivalent) 92,178 88,671 4 
OPERATING BASIS* 
FOR THE YEAR 
Net income $ 2,906 $ 2499 * 16% 
Net income applicable to common stock 2,871 2,456 17 | 
Earnings per common share See ala7 a. S50 18 
Diluted earnings per common share 1.75 1.48 18 
Profitability ratios 
Net income to average total assets (ROA) ‘ile 1.37% 12 
Net income applicable to common stock to average 
common stockholders’ equity (ROE) 12.81 13 
Efficiency ratio 62.8% (3) 


Net Income and Ratios Excluding Goodwill and 
Nonqualifying Core Deposit Intangible Amortization 


and Balances (“Cash” or “Tangible”)* 

Net income applicable to common stock 5) 5) 3,03 13 
Earnings per common share 1.85 14 
Diluted earnings per common share 1.83 14 
ROA ——-1,78% 8 
ROE 30.49 4 
Efficiency ratio 578 (1) 


*Excludes merger-related and other cnarges of approximately $1,152 million ($748 million 
after tax) and $320 million ($208 million after tax) of loan losses, mostly in Island Finance. 
‘Cash earnings are earnings before charges for goodwill (premium over the fair value of net assets 
acquired) and nonqualifying core deposit intangible (acquired after regulatory rule changes in 
1992). Balance sheet values for these items have been excluded from the cash-basis ratios. WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 5. 


competitive advantages 


Why are we so confident your company has what it takes to capitalize on these 


significant opportunities? To succeed in our industry, we believe a company has to 


have competitive advantages in seven key areas: geography, products and businesses, 


distribution, sales and service culture, efficiency, brand, and most important, people. 


We believe the new Wells Fargo is blessed with considerable strength in all seven. 


GEOGRAPHY You couldn’t ask for better places 
to do business. We’re in the fastest growing markets 
in the world’s best economy. The 21 states in 
@ which we distribute financial services products 


through our banks — from Ohio to California — are the best 
geography in the United States. Nine of the 21 are among the 
nation’s 10 fastest growing states. Fifty percent of the projected 
U.S. population growth the next 10 years is expected to come 
from these states. 

California, alone, has the world’s seventh largest economy, 
the nation’s largest housing market, the nation’s largest small 
business market and the nation’s largest farm economy. We’re 
first, second or third in share of banking deposits in 83 
percent of the markets in these 21 states. We also serve seven 
of the “10 Best Cities for Business” as rated by Fortune 
magazine (Austin, Texas; Las Vegas; Salt Lake City, Phoenix, 
San Jose; Portland, Ore.; and Denver). 


PRODUCTS AND BUSINESSES Our line of prod- 
ucts and breadth of businesses are perhaps the most 
diverse and extensive in our industry. We cover 
@ all financial services: retail and business banking, 
investments, insurance, consumer and commercial finance, 
commercial real estate, home mortgages, home equity, 
venture capital and capital markets. As you can see in the 
chart on page 4, our product diversity also creates earnings 
diversity. This enables us to weather downturns that 
inevitably affect any one segment of our industry. We rely 
less on lending than most of our peers. Forty-two percent 
of our revenue comes from a stream of fees we receive for 
operating services such as mortgage servicing, treasury 
management and insurance. 

Our diversity of businesses makes us much more than a 
bank. We’re a diversified financial services company. We’re 
competing in a highly fragmented and fast growing industry. 
It’s four times larger than banking and growing in the high 
single digits. 

If we could pick one industry in which to compete and 
grow, we'd pick financial services. It’s the engine for growth 
for any highly developed economy. 


6 TO OUR OWNERS 


DISTRIBUTION Products are important but 
competitors can copy them quickly. The real 

customer value is the way you distribute products. 

@ We have the best, most extensive distribution 
system in our industry. We own our industry’s largest 
network of stores — almost 6,000 of them — and more 
than 6,200 ATMs. We have about 1,000 supermarket banking 
stores, far more than any of our competitors. Those stores 


enable us to serve customers when, where and how they want 


to be served. They multiply our sales opportunities. Our 
Phone Bank™ centers last year handled more than 200 million 
calls and more than 13 million calls through our National 
Business Banking Center. We’re the oldest and largest online 
financial services provider. Our 700,000+ online banking 
customers are a diverse group — California suburbanites to 
Indiana farmers. Our most active banking store is invisible. 
Last year, we handled more than 22 million Internet 
banking sessions, almost double the previous year, more than 
any other bank in the USA. Also, last year, we continued to 
develop www.wellsfargo.com as a destination site. We: 


¢ signed up an average of more than 1,000 new online 
banking customers a day — including 10,000 Norwest 
customers who signed up in December 1998 and January 
1999 in advance of any marketing campaign; 


@ became the first U.S. bank to offer instant decisions online 
for home equity loans; 


¢ handled more than a half million Internet banking trans- 
actions for small business banking customers (more than 
double the previous year); 


¢ launched stock trading on the Internet via our WellsTrade® 
service to give self-directed investors the convenience 
of doing both their banking and stock trading online; 

¢ became the first U.S. bank to offer customers Wells Fargo 
credit card bills online; and 


© opened two cyber-banking stores — in Seattle and Las Vegas 
— with ATMs and computer terminals that let our 
customers use the Internet free of charge. 


SALES AND SERVICE CULTURE Over the years, 
Norwest and Wells Fargo developed somewhat 
different styles — reflecting their markets. 
@ Norwest, more high touch. Wells Fargo, more high 
tech. This merger combines the best of those two styles in your 
new company. Our customers can choose financial 
services — when, where and how they want them. 
Fortune magazine — using customer and industry surveys 
— ranked Norwest #1 for customer satisfaction in the banking 
industry, #1 “most admired” commercial bank in the USA last 
year and the #3 “most admired” bank in the world. Over 
the past 10 years, Norwest built a reputation for having the 
industry’s strongest sales and service culture. This reputation 
was backed by superior systems for tracking sales, customer 
profitability and customer information — using technology to 
personalize customer service. During those 10 years, Norwest 
also bought almost 100 banks and doubled their products 
sold per household. It did this by offering customers a broad 
product line and a better deal for doing all their business 
with Norwest. We intend to propagate effective technology — 
and a superior sales and service culture — across the entire new 
Wells Fargo. We expect every Wells Fargo business to refer all 
their customers to other businesses. We want to earn nothing 
short of all the business of every creditworthy customer. We 
expect to sell at least one more product to every customer 
every year. The more products we sell customers, the better 
deal they get, the more loyal they become, the more we know 
about them to serve them better, and the higher the return for 
Wells Fargo stockholders. Everyone wins — our customers, 
team members, communities and stockholders. 


EFFICIENCY The “old” Wells Fargo brings to 

your new company a well-deserved repu- 

tation for efficiency and speed to market. 

® In 1997, for example, it cost the “old” Wells 

Fargo 54.6 cents to earn a dollar of revenue, on a cash basis 

compared to 63.0 cents for the old. Norwest. This superior 

ability to create greater value from scarce resources is the 

result of a “run it like you own it” and “know the numbers” 

culture. Operating expenses are tightly controlled — but at 

the same time we will not compromise when it comes to 

“doing it right for the customer.” We intend to propagate this 

culture of efficiency — along with a renewed focus on aggres- 

sive revenue growth and service excellence — across the new 

Wells Fargo. This will be especially important in 1999 and 

beyond as competition from non-banks, which have even 

lower costs, will continue to grow. We must be cost competi- 
tive so our customers can receive outstanding value. 

The “old” Wells Fargo also had superior “speed to 
market.” That’s because its centralized lines of business — 
such as commercial and business banking, private client 
services and online banking — were responsible for success 


across an entire product line or segment of customers. 
These businesses develop products, technology, sales standards 
and risk management that serve the entire franchise. 

At the same time, our regional presidents — the leaders of 
our community banking sales and service culture — orches- 
trate the entire array of Wells Fargo products and services in 
their geography. In this way, we’ll continue to “Out Local the 
Nationals and Out National the Locals°“” We want to offer 
better products and a broader product line than our local com- 
petitors so we can satisfy all our customers’ financial needs. 
We also want to continue to out-perform our national 
competitors by staying close to our customers in each of 
our communities, understanding their needs, and providing 
professional, personalized and timely service. 

We continue to believe the best decisions are local 
decisions. From Indiana to California, decisions on lending, 
pricing, marketing and community investment will continue 
to be made by our bankers who live and work in those mar- 
kets. They know their communities better than anyone else. 


OUR BRAND It’s time tested. One hundred and 
forty-seven years old. That’s as old as the 
American West itself — and about as old as four 
@ of America’s most widely known _ brands 
combined: Disney, McDonald’s, Nike and Wal-Mart. Our 
brand and the stagecoach are two of the most widely 
recognized consumer symbols in the world. In the Western 
U.S. they have consumer awareness that approaches 
Coca-Cola. Our brand stands for speed, reliability, service, 
safe keeping, innovation, trust and for “coming through” 
for customers — wherever they live and wherever they 
want to go. Because of the promise it implies for customers, 
branding is as indispensible for a national financial 
services company as it is for a national retailer — or a national 
provider of automobiles, cereals or soft drinks. 


PEOPLE All these competitive advantages are 
important. They’re meaningless, however, without 
talented team members, who care. Our brand does 
@ not serve our customers. People serve our customers. 
Wells Fargo team members put their customers first. 
Products and technology can be duplicated — but we believe 
our people are more talented, more motivated, more energized 
than our competitors. They care about each other, care about 
their customers, care about their communities and care about 
their company. We believe it’s our people who give Wells Fargo 
a competitive advantage. That’s why the new Wells Fargo will 
continue to invest in attracting, retaining, motivating 
and rewarding the very best people in the financial services 
industry. We’re committed to fostering and building an 
inclusive culture that reflects the diversity of our markets. 
We view diversity as a great business opportunity. 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 7 


momentum. 


To celebrate the merger of Norwest and Wells Fargo — and incent our team 
members to find and implement more Best Practices* — we awarded PartnerShares® 
stock option grants of 200 shares in 1998 to all our eligible team members. 
The option vests and can be exercised by team members when our stock closes at 
or above $70 a share or in five years, whichever comes first. This award recognizes 
the tremendous contributions team members are making to combine two 


outstanding companies into an even better performing new company. 


"Ideas that improve customer service, keep customers and attract new ones, reduce costs or increase revenue 


OUR THANKS 


Nine outstanding leaders — who contributed immeasurably to the success of Norwest and Wells Fargo — retired from their respective boards of 
directors last year. We thank them for their vision, wisdom and leadership. Their legacy is the foundation for the future growth of the new Wells Fargo: 


H. Jesse Arnelle was a co-founder of one of the first corporate law firms in the nation owned by African-Americans. He joined the 
Wells Fargo board in 1990. 


Rayburn S. Dezember was chairman and CEO of Central Pacific Corporation, owner of American National Bank, which merged with Wells 
Fargo Bank in 1990, the year Ray joined the Wells Fargo board. He is a former director of the Federal Reserve Bank in San Francisco. 


Robert K. Jaedicke, former dean of the Stanford Graduate School of Business, joined the Wells Fargo board in 1983 and was chair of the 
Examinations and Audits Committee. 


Lloyd P. Johnson was chairman and CEO of Norwest from 1985 to 1993 and chairman from 1993 to 1995. His “control, profit and growth’ strat- 
egy led the Norwest turn-around in the mid-1980s and produced 11 consecutive years of record operating results. Thanks to his 
leadership, we're known as one of the top performers in our industry. 


Thomas L. Lee, chairman and CEO of the land development company, Newhall Land and Farming, is a respected authority on Southern California 
real estate. He joined the Wells Fargo board in 1996 from First Interstate Bancorp, where he had been a director since 1993. 


Richard S. Levitt was chairman of our consumer finance subsidiary, Norwest Financial, from 1979 to 1987.He is the grandson of founder Jacob 
Levitt and spent 33 years with the company. His emphasis on accountability management, people development, quality of receivables and prof- 
itability enabled Norwest Financial to become known as a premier consumer finance company in North America. 


Ellen M. Newman, founder and head of Ellen Newman Associates, had been a Wells Fargo director since 1976. She was the company’s first 
consumer affairs advisor. 


Carl E. Reichardt was chairman and CEO of Wells Fargo from 1983 to 1994 and retired from the Wells Fargo board in April 1998. Thanks to his 
leadership, Wells Fargo became the most profitable bank in the Western U.S. and one of the most efficient banks in the industry. During his 
tenure, the total return for Wells Fargo’s common stock was 1,668 percent. 


Richard J. Stegemeier, former chairman and CEO, Unocal Corporation, El Segundo, Calif., served on the Wells Fargo board from 1996 to 


1998, on the Examinations and Audits, and the Management Development and Compensation Committees. He joined the Wells Fargo board 
from First Interstate Bancorp, where he had been a director since 1989. 


8 TO OUR OWNERS 


INTEGRATING OUR TWO COMPANIES We’re already one company 
operating under one corporate name, Wells Fargo. Norwest 
stores, however, won’t start changing their name to Wells 
Fargo until the second half of 1999, many not until 2000. 
We’re going to take our time to do it right. Our goal during 
the integration will be the same as it’s always been: deliver a 
superior customer experience. Plans are important. Process 
is important. But most important is execution because that’s 
how our customers will judge our work a year from now. 
We expect to make this integration as smooth as possible for 
our customers. We don’t want to do anything to compromise 
a superior customer experience. We have two guiding 
principles. First, make every decision with the customer 
experience in mind. Second, execute to perfection. 


HIGHER EARNINGS What benefits can this merger deliver for 
you, our owners? In short, higher earnings. We expect the 
new Wells Fargo will generate higher earnings per share 
growth than either company would have produced on 
its own. This includes the benefits of merger-related cost 
savings, increased cross-selling opportunities and a stream of 
more diverse earnings in fast growing states. 


KEEPING TALENT The success of this integration will be mea- 
sured by how many people we can retain from both 
companies — so they can continue to serve their customers 
and earn more of their customers’ business. 

Keeping as many talented team members as possible 
also is in your long-term best interests as an owner of the 
company. Good people are hard to find, especially in an 
economy with such low unemployment. We’ve made a very 
strong commitment to retain as many team members as we 
can. To that end, we’ve created a RETAIN initiative to help 
these valued team members find jobs in Wells Fargo where 
they can make the greatest contribution. Our RETAIN 
initiative includes processes for self-assessments, individual 
coaching, generating job leads and tailored career transition 
support. This process takes time and resources. It means 
passing up some short-term savings but still allows us 
to achieve our long-term efficiency goals. The pay-off — 
keeping as many talented team members as possible — is well 
worth the investment. The most important difference in 
strategy between Wells Fargo and our competitors is that at 
Wells Fargo we believe in people as a competitive advantage. 


GETTING READY FOR YEAR 2000 One reason we’re taking three 
years to integrate fully Norwest and Wells Fargo systems is 
the Year 2000 computer issue. From sometime in the fourth 
quarter 1999 to early 2000, we plan to stop virtually all 


computer conversions related to the merger so we can focus 
on this top priority customer issue. We don’t want to combine 
our systems when some of our commercial customers may 
encounter Year 2000 problems of their own. We’re scheduled 
to resume integration in March 2000. Long before the merger, 
both Norwest and Wells Fargo had thorough Year 2000 
plans, funded efforts underway, and detailed testing in place. 

No organization can make blanket guarantees about the 
Year 2000 issue. We can assure you we have the team and 
the process in place to minimize any Year 2000 problems 
that might occur with our systems. We’ve fixed, replaced and 
tested practically all of the computer systems and equipment 
critical to our operations. We’ve been testing our systems 
with selected customers and vendors for some time now. 
We’re working with our vendors and customers to determine 
if they’re ready for the Year 2000. 

Both Norwest and Wells Fargo have devoted significant 
resources for this project. Combined, we currently estimate 
our total Year 2000 expense will be approximately $315 
million. In addition, hundreds of team members from both 
companies have spent nearly two years checking that all our 
systems can read dates properly in the Year 2000. For more 
discussion of this important subject, please see page 42. 


MOMENTUM Our diverse businesses, products and geography 
— and our talented team members — continue to produce 
outstanding results and give us great momentum for 1999, 
Last year Wells Fargo achieved record operating results, 
excluding merger-related and special charges. We expect that 
record of performance to continue. Including merger-related 
and other charges, earnings for 1998 were $1,950 million, 
or $1.17 per share. That compares with $2,499, or $1.48 
per share for 1997. Earnings for the fourth quarter of 1998 
were affected by merger-related and other charges of approx- 
imately $1.2 billion — equal to a loss of .45 cents a share. 
Fourth quarter earnings also were affected by a provision for 
loan losses of approximately $320 million — equal to a loss 
of .13 cents a share — above the level of prior quarters due 
to loan losses in Island Finance, our consumer finance sub- 
sidiary in the Caribbean and Central America. Even after 
these charges, the equity capital of the combined company 
is strong at 10.25 percent of assets and its regulatory capital 
ratios are well above regulatory minimums. Excluding 
merger-related and special charges, here’s how your company 
performed in 1998: 


1998 1997 % increase 
Earnings per share $1.75 $1.48 18.2% 
ROA 1.54% 1.37% 12.4% 
ROE 14.52% 12.81% 13.3% 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 9 


These measures of financial performance, we believe, are much 
more relevant for shareholders on a cash basis* which measures 
Wells Fargo’s ability to support growth and pay dividends. 
On a cash basis the performance of your company was: 


1998 1997 % increase 
Earnings per share $2.08 $1.83 13.6% 
ROA 1.92% 1.78% 7.86% 
ROE 31.76% 30.49% 4.16% 


*Cash earnings are earnings before charges for goodwill (premium over the fair value of net assets 
acquired) and non-qualifying core deposit intangible (acquired after regulatory capital rule changes in 
1992). Balance sheet values for these items have been excluded from the cash-basis ratios. 


A conservative financial position, a disciplined credit process, 
a fortressed balance sheet and managing risk exposure by 
industry, geography and customer — these are hallmarks 
of the new Wells Fargo. At year-end 1998, we had almost 
$4.41 of reserves for every $1.00 of nonperforming loans 
(not accruing interest or restructured) — among the highest 
in our peer group. Nonperforming loans were a very low 
0.7 percent of loans and leases, one of the best among our 
peers. We have no direct exposure to hedge funds and very 
limited international lending (less than 1 percent of all loans). 


THE BEST TEAM IN FINANCIAL SERVICES It’s easy to declare a 
merger of equals: It’s much harder to make one work. The 
first phase of integrating Norwest and Wells Fargo has been 
remarkably smooth. The credit goes to tens of thousands of 
our loyal team members. Despite understandable anxiety and 
uncertainty about the future, they’ve worked with great 
dedication and patience behind the scenes for months — 
including many evenings and weekends and a lot of 
time away from their families and friends. They’ve done 
everything that could be asked of them and more. They’re 
truly coming through — by doing what’s right for our 
customers, our stockholders and for each other. They’re the 
heart and soul of the new Wells Fargo. 

We’ve accomplished a lot so far. We thoroughly assessed 
each company’s businesses, systems and operations. We 
selected the “best of both” — based not on anyone’s personal 
preferences but on what’s best for our customers and 
our businesses. We created a new organization structure — 
combining Wells Fargo’s efficiency, speed to market and high 
tech channels with Norwest’s outstanding sales and service 
culture, local decision making and a full range of financial 
products, not just banking. Our disciplined budget process 
focused on both revenue growth and greater efficiency. 


10 TO OUR OWNERS 


We’re laying out a carefully measured timeline for integrating 
systems and changing the Norwest name to Wells Fargo. 
We still have much to do. 

We intend to keep upper-most in our minds the best 
interests of our customers, team members, communities and 
you, our owners. 


OUR VISION We want to be the best financial services company 
in each of our markets — number one, second to none — and 
be recognized as one of America’s great companies. We want 
to be known: 


¢ by our customers for outstanding service, sound financial 
advice and a broad product line that helps them succeed 
financially; 

¢ by our team members as a great place to work, as a company 
that cares and fosters effective two-way communication; 


¢ by our communities as an active leader in economic 
development, services that promote economic self-sufficiency, 
education, the arts and spirited volunteerism; and 


¢ by you, our owners, as a great investment that delivers 
returns among the highest in our industry and among the 
best of any company in any industry. 


As Wells Fargo embarks on its 147th year, we’re more 
confident than ever of your company’s future prospects. 
We thank you, our owners, for your support. We especially 
thank our great team of people for being the very best at 
what they do. 

It’s fitting we end with the words of Henry Wells. 
He wrote them late at night in a letter at the end of a long 
work day in his first office in the new company. They’re just 
as appropriate today as they were almost a century and 
a half ago. “This is a Great Country & a Greater People!” 


(Mgr. CU pred 


Richard M. Kovacevich 
President and Chief Executive Officer 


Paul Hazen 
Chairman 


Our average retail banking customer has about 3 é financial services p 
@ 


brandnew 


opportu 


Chances are you don’t know Goldie Mandella (above) or 
Joey Shoji or Alita Marshall or any of the other talented 
people you see on the next few pages. They’re among the 
102,000 Wells Fargo team members who work for you — and 
our customers — every day. They’re the ones who produce our 
great results. They’re why we’re so confident your new com- 
pany can take full advantage of our Brand New Opportunities. 
They are, to a person, caring, committed, professional, 
optimistic and energetic. They believe in building customer 
relationships not just transactions. They want to satisfy all our 


customers’ financial needs and help them succeed financially. 


12 


BRAND NEW 


OPPORTUNITIES 


ee 2 


Only about 25% of our 
banking customers have 
a Norwest or Wells Fargo 
credit card. 


SALES OPPORTUNITY 

It’s an ambitious goal. We have about 
3.2 products per household today. 
We want to get to eight. The average 
American household has about 15. We 
can’t make progress without talented 
salespeople such as Goldie Mandella 
(below), a personal banker in Billings, 
Mont. She ranks as one of our best in 
key measures of sales performance 
among thousands of her peers in our 
21 banking states. Not bad for some- 
one with only a year’s experience 
serving customers face to face in a 
banking store after four years as a 
Phone Bank™ representative. 

She credits her success to four 
behaviors. First, she uses our sales 
road mapping process and tailors it 
to her personal style. “Every time I 
visit with a customer, it’s a sales and 
service opportunity.” Second, she’s 
prepared and self-confident. 
“Customers respect the advice of 
people who know what they’re talk- 
ing about.” Third, she’s optimistic. 
“IT keep a smile in my voice. If I feel 
good, chances are my customers will 
feel the same way.” Fourth, success 
breeds success. “When I find a 
way to help a customer, that makes 
the customer feel good, it makes 
me feel good and that gives me 
even more energy to help the 


next customer.” 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 13 


We're the USA's ' eli 


...but our competitors 7 2 
% 
mortgages of 4 


We have 3.2 million 
banking households in 
the 16 former Norwest 
banking states. Only 
7.4% of them have a 
mortgage with Norwest. 


; 


“S 


= 


\ 


and only about 5% of our mortgage customers have a home equity loan with us. 


HOME IS WHERE THE OPPORTUNITY IS 
Phil Mahoney (left) and Doreen Woo Ho 
(right) don’t have to look far to find 
opportunities in the mortgage and 
home equity business. It’s right in their 
own front yards. Norwest Mortgage 
surpassed $109 billion in originations 
in 1998, almost doubling its previous year’s 
volume. That leads the industry — but 
that’s still only a 7.7 percent national 
market share. There’s lots of opportunity 
for growth. The Wells Fargo-Norwest 
merger brings us a new opportunity to 
sell mortgages to Wells Fargo banking 
customers in five fast growing states: 
California, Washington, Oregon, Utah 
and Idaho. 

Woo Ho’s Home Equity Lending 
business cuts across banking, mortgages, 
consumer finance and credit cards. It 


serves 500,000+ customers and has a 


*Based on 9/30/98 Inside Mortgage Finance market share data. 


combined portfolio of $14+ billion, 
second largest among all banks nation- 
wide. “Our vision,” she says, “is to 
become the nation’s premier home 
equity lender and cross-sell home 
equity products to as many qualified 
customers as possible.” 

Mahoney helps Norwest Mortgage 
form joint ventures — a cost effective 
way to extend Mortgage’s sales network 
through Realtors® and builders, who 
have more contacts than anyone else 
with potential mortgage customers. 
Last year, Norwest Mortgage more than 
doubled its loans originated through 
joint ventures. “In joint ventures with 
builders,” says Mahoney, “we’ve 
financed up to 80 percent of the 


housing units of a development.” 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 


15 


of our customers do their banking via the Wells Fargo internet site... 


SE 


18 BRAND 


~“ . ie 
.. .but that’s only about 8 % Nw ~ 
: ~ 


of all our banking customers. 


EW OPPORT 


GROWTH OPPORTUNITY 

Online banking is still an infant. Only 
three percent of American households 
use their home computers to check bal- 
ances, transfer funds between accounts, 
pay bills or buy and sell stocks. But 
watch out. The baby’s growing fast. 
In five years, it’s projected one of every 
five households could be banking 
online. If that happens, the Internet 
will become a viable medium of com- 
merce for banking — and join brick 
and mortar stores, telephone banking 
and ATMs as “trusted gateways” for 
financial services. 

As the nation’s oldest and largest 
Internet banker, Wells Fargo is ready 
to capitalize on the opportunity. 

In an average week, we’re already 
handling more than 250,000 online 
transactions and enrolling as many 

as 10,000 new online customers. More 
importantly, online banking builds 
customer relationships. Our 700,000+ 
online customers tend to have more 


products with us, have higher balances 
and are more likely to view Wells Fargo 
as their primary financial services 
provider. They also appreciate the 
convenience of targeted product 
offers that can save them time and 
money. Behind the scenes, our online 
banking team makes it all happen — 
including team members (top, clock- 
wise) James Mitchell (programmer), 
Sandra Gonzales (customer service), 
Paul Erlicht (marketing) and 

Joey Shoji (business development). 
“The technology never stops changing, 
evolving and improving,” says Erlicht. 
“Online banking is not just a relation- 
ship builder and a cross-selling tool, 
it’s what customers come to expect 
from their financial services company. 
Our goal is to be the best online 
financial services provider in the 
nation with more customers and 
more services than any competitor.” 


b 
We're among the USA's leading bank lenders to U % ni - S S aa S ® 
g g @@ 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 19 


4 ae oy ; 


*,. but, on average, we sell’our business.customers only about ef their financial services products. > 
7 


WHEN OPPORTUNITY KNOCKS, 

these three business bankers are quick 
to sell and serve their customers. 
(From top, clockwise) Alita Marshall 
(Oakland, Calif.), Dean Taylor 
(Austin, Texas) and Laura Oberst 
(Minneapolis/St. Paul) are among 

our company’s best in the number of 
products and services their customers 
buy from Wells Fargo and Norwest. 
They look at the big picture. Every 
time they interact with a customer it’s 
a chance to strengthen the relation- 
ship, listen for new needs and identify 
sales and service opportunities — not 
only for the business but for personal 
banking needs of its officers, owners 
and employees. 

As a relationship manager for the 
East Bay area, Marshall’s market 
covers thousands of companies with 
$5+ million in sales in fast-growing 
Alameda County and Contra Costa 
County. Her customers average 
about a half dozen products and 
services with Wells Fargo, double our 
company’s average but still short of 
our goal of nine. Marshall calls her 
cross-sell strategy “selling deep.” 
Example: five years ago she landed 
a middle market wholesaler from 
the Oakland area with a $4 million 
working capital line of credit. Today, 
that customer has nine products with 
Wells Fargo, including a sweep account, 
PC Manager? equipment term debt, 
a real estate loan with interest rate 
protection and courier service. “The 
Norwest-Wells Fargo merger gives 
me and my customers more cross-sell 
opportunities,” she says. “Mortgages, 
investment, insurance and leasing. 
The opportunities are endless.” 


— 


| in Dean Taylor's Austin, 
Texas market, only 15% of 
middle market businesses 
bank with Norwest. 


bra nd A class of goods or services identified as being 
the product of a single firm or manufacturer; characteristic 
or distinctive kind. SIGN, SYMBOL, TRADEMARK. A sign 
or symbol predisposing customers to do business with a 
company by building their confidence and trust in, and familiar- 
ity with, its products and services. An implied promise of 
consistent quality. See 1998 Wells Fargo Annual Report, “Our 
brand stands for speed, reliability, service, safe keeping, 
innovation, trust and for ‘coming through’ for customers — 


wherever they live and wherever they want to go.” 


NEW Having existed or having been made but a short time; 
originated or occurred lately; not early or long in being; 
RECENT, FRESH, MODERN; seen or known but a short time 
although perhaps existing before; recently manifested, recognized 
or experienced; being other than the former or old; having freshly 
come into a relation; RENOVATED, RECREATED; recently 
acquired an improved status. See 1998 Wells Fargo Annual 
Report, “Our new company — the result of the recent merger 
of equals involving Norwest Corporation and Wells Fargo & 
Company — already is the premier banking franchise west 
of the Mississippi. Our vision is to become the premier 


financial services company in all of North America.” 


opportunities From Latin opportunus, ob 


portum, coming to harbor. Fit, suitable, or convenient for 
particular occurrences. Occurring at a suitable time. TIMELY, 
ADVANTAGEOUS. Combination of circumstances, time and 
place suitable or favorable for particular actions. See 1998 Wells 
Fargo Annual Report, “Everywhere you look in the new Wells 
Fargo, there are new opportunities — to satisfy more of our 
customers’ financial needs, to attract new customers, and to 


serve customers when, where and how they want to be served.” 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 21 


creating 


C 


1 part 


shi nershii fsor 1g that’s mc ence in our com: 
lL, “ / f Yevelonm 
C iowe'l nunity, says Wells Veveiopme 
you can pol exciting projects such as a new Brel ht), who serv 
re capital fund called FAME Renaissance, created on FAME re than ju 


nents 


by the First A.M.E. (African Methodist Episcopal) juiren community 


Church of | one of the reinvestment. It’s just good busine It’s busin 


sAng 


to turn 


'st churches. development. Our goal is business owr 


who receive FAME Renaissance investments, i! 


invests in emerging growth bus! customers of Wells Fargo.” 
to hit the radar screen o ‘Brenda attends our workshops, she speaks 
rture al funds — owned or operated by peo for us,“ says Mark Whitlock, executive d 


create opportunity 


Opportunity awaits us at every street corner in every neighborhood in 
every single one of our communities. The opportunity to help un-served 
or under-served segments of a community. The opportunity to invest 
in a small business that can create more jobs. The opportunity to 
help the economically disadvantaged become more self-sufficient. 
The opportunity to help a low or moderate income family become 
homeowners. The opportunity to unleash the volunteer spirit of our 
team members. The opportunity to satisfy all of the financial services 


needs of all our communities and help them succeed financially. 


arizona Norwest Banks launch Norwest Neighbors, contributing $40,000 to non-profits that provide 
employment help and training to former welfare recipients. Wells Fargo: largest investor ($600,000) in a micro- 
lending program serving migrant workers and American Indians who run small businesses in, or live in, rural 
Arizona. Wells Fargo: single largest contributor ($1.1 million pledge) to expand Arizona State University’s 
Chicano/Chicana Studies Program. caurornia Wells Fargo: sole funder ($1 million) of a banking center — Operation 
Hope — to educate consumers and small businesses in South Central Los Angeles about banking and finance. 
Wells Fargo donated $150,000 to the Accelerated School, the only charter school in South Central Los Angeles 
that helps Latino and African-American students improve their test scores. iowa Norwest Banks, major sponsors 


of KidsFest, trade show benefiting Children and Families of lowa, statewide non-profit human services agency. 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 23 


Rio de ksperanza 
FAMIL y HOUSING 


minnesota Norwest Banks begin 30th year of support for adult education program in north Minneapolis, 
enabling 2,000+ participants to earn their high school general equivalency degrees and become job ready. To 
help raise capital to build affordable homes using volunteer labor, Norwest Bank Minnesota is trustee for $2.5 
million in securitized mortgages through Habitat for Humanity. Norwest Bank (Faribault) helps needy 
families who lack the money to pay for school expenses with loans of $1,000, repaid with government tax 
credits. nesraska Norwest Banks help revitalize a business district in North Omaha. new mexico ano Nevava Norwest 
Banks help raise $140,000 and $50,000 respectively for the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation. soutH pakota Norwest 
Banks contribute $20,000 and hold fundraisers organized by team members to build bridges along the 
110-mile Mickelson Trail in the Black Hills. texas Norwest Banks donate $153,500 to flood victims through the 
Salvation Army and the Red Cross. Wells Fargo commits to invest $500,000 in a bank, owned and controlled 
by people of color, serving a low-moderate income area of Houston. wasnincton Wells Fargo: lead investor, 


single largest bank investment ($250,000) in revolving loan fund for low-income entrepreneurs in Washington 


24 HELPING OUR COMMUNITIES 


RIVER OF HOPE It's called Rio de Esperanza. 
River of Hope. It's a newly built group of 10 afford- 
able housing units in a predominantly low income 
area of southwest Denver — largely Hispanic — 
where families live as they prepare to buy homes 
of their own — created by the SouthWest 
Neighborhood Housing Corp. 

"SouthWest's work goes far beyond walls and 
windows," says Jim Snow (right) , managing officer 
of Norwest's Bear Valley banking store in Denver. 
"They don't just give disadvantaged people housing, 
they make it possible for them to support themselves. 
They provide financial counseling, down payment 
assistance and help their clients overcome 


language barriers." 


Norwest Bank Colorado is part of a group of 
companies and government agencies that help 
SouthWest develop and manage affordable housing 
for people below the area's median income. Norwest 
Bank underwrites and services loans originated by 
Norwest Mortgage's Esther Talamantes (middle). 
Esther's skill in Spanish is an essential part of the 
process — many of her customers do not speak 
English. Norwest's investment of sweat equity in 
SouthWest is far more important than its cash 
contribution. Snow has given hundreds of hours of 
his time to SouthWest the past five years, including 
three years as president of the organization. "Without 
Norwest and Jim Snow," says Jan Marie Belle (far 
left), executive director of SouthWest, "we wouldn't 
be able to develop what our neighborhoods need 


more than anything else, affordable housing." 


and Oregon. wisconsin Norwest Banks’ capital investment in a community development program for low- 
income families surpasses $58,000. wyominc Using a Federal Home Loan Bank grant, Norwest supports a 
facility in Casper for the homeless, the disabled and people with AIDS. usa Since 1997, Norwest Mortgage’s 
Homebuyers Club has helped 5,000+ prospective homeowners overcome previous credit problems and 
lack of down-payment funds to become pre-approved buyers. Norwest Mortgage: retraining 4,600 sales 
representatives to attract more low-moderate income customers; opening 56 stores in neighborhoods where 
incomes are 50-80% of the area median; number of mortgage loans to low-moderate income customers 
grew 66 percent in ’98. Wells Fargo announces $1 billion, 12-year loan program to fund African-American 
businesses across USA. Wells Fargo recognizes 285 team member-volunteers for contributing their personal 
time, donating $250,000 to 111 non-profits. Los ANGELES, SAN FRANCISCO, OAKLAND AND Houston Wells Fargo: lead 
investor ($5 million) in Microcredit Loan Fund, Inc. — makes $250,000 contribution to the Fund — to 


create jobs and fund entrepreneurs in low-moderate income communities. 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 25 


the businesses 
of Wells Fargo 


We’re much more than a bank. We cover all financia 


Mervices — inc 


ding retail and 


business banking, home mortgages, home equity, insurance, investments, consumer 


and commercial finance, venture capital, treasury management, trade services, com- 


mercial real estate, auto finance and capital markets. 


COMMUNITY BANKING 


Above: Group Executive Vice Presidents (from left) 
John Stumpf (Southwestern Banking),Jim Campbell 
(Minnesota Banking), Ken Murray (Diversified 
Financial Group), John Berg (Central Banking), John 
Nelson (Western Banking) and Terri Dial (California) 


* Stores: 2,866 in 21 states 

° ATMs: 6,248 

* Customers: 9.1 million 

* USA's largest contiguous banking franchise 

* Overview: Our goal is to be recognized as 
the premier financial services provider in each 
of our communities. We believe in the power of 
local decision-making. The best decisions are local 
decisions, made by our people who live and work in 
their communities. They’re closest to our customers. 
They know our communities better than anyone else. 


CENTRAL BANKING GROUP 


Our market managers and their teams are responsi- 
ble and accountable for: delivering our full array 
of products and services to their customers; our 
marketplace reputation; and community involve- 
ment. One key measure of our market leadership 
is share of deposits. We rank #1 in that measure 

in Colorado, lowa, Montana, Nevada, and South 
Dakota; #2 in California, Minnesota, New Mexico, 
North Dakota, and Oregon; and #3 in Arizona and 
Nebraska. Those 12 states have almost 82% of our 
total deposits. 


Sis 


From Van Wert, Ohio to San Diego, Calif. our 
21-state banking franchise covers more than 
half the continental USA and four time zones. 


* North Dakota, South Dakota, Nebraska, lowa, 
Wisconsin, Illinois, Indiana, Ohio 
* Assets: $16 billion 
* Team Members: 5,523 
* Stores: 275 
* Overview: Nebraska, lowa, North Dakota, South 
Dakota are among leaders in new Wells Fargo in 
products per banking household, including South 
Dakota which is #1. 


26 THE BUSINESSES OF WELLS FARGO 


Top farm production states in all of Wells Fargo: 
lowa #1 in USA in corn, soybeans and hogs; 
Nebraska #2 in USA for cattle; #3 corn, #4 hogs; 
Wisconsin USA's #2 dairy state; North Dakota 
USA's #1 wheat state. 


5.25% 


Nebraska Opportunity 

Our average Nebraska banking household 
has 4.29 products with us — one of the 
highest in the company — but only 5.25% 
of our Nebraska banking households have 
investments through us. 


MINNESOTA BANKING GROUP 


* Twin Cities, Greater Minnesota, Correspondent 
Banking, Peregrine Capital Management 

+ Assets: $12 billion 

* Team Members: 5,690 

* Overview: Wells Fargo’s second- largest retail 
distribution system. USA's 3rd largest correspon- 
dent banker ($3.5 billion in deposits, relationships 
with 2,600+ correspondent banks in 21 states); 


WESTERN BANKING GROUP 


state’s leading originator of SBA loans; banking 
stores serve 91 communities; home of these 


national businesses: Peregrine, Correspondent 8% 


Banking, Venture Capital, Insurance, Shareowner 
Services, Treasury Management, Specialized atiaiansee Qapertenity 
Less than 8% of our Minnesota retail 
banking households have a home 


equity loan with us. 


Financial Services Group (Norwest Business Credit, 
Norwest Equipment Finance, Capital Markets 
Group), Corporate Economics; Institutional Trust; 
Institutional Brokerage; Master Trust and Custody. 


* Colorado, Idaho, Montana, Nevada, Oregon, 
Utah, Washington, Wyoming 

* Assets: $24 billion 

* Team Members: 6,663 

* Stores: 543 


SOUTHWESTERN BANKING GROUP 


¢ Arizona, New Mexico, Texas 

* Assets: $29 billion 

* Team Members: 8,876 

* Overview: 1.62 million households; more 
in-store banks than any other financial services 
organization in the Southwest; all three states — 


CALIFORNIA, BUSINESS BANKING, PHONE BANKING, 


DISTRIBUTION STRATEGIES 


* Overview: 1.8 million banking households 


across company’s largest geographic area, 


785,000 square miles. 12 percent of company’s 9% 


assets. Colorado, Washington, Nevada among 3 of Colorado Opportunity 


87% of our Colorado banking house- 
holds have checking accounts with us 
but only 9% have credit cards with us. 


USA's 10 fastest-growing states. 


Arizona, New Mexico, Texas — among the nation’s 
10 fastest growing; total delivery points — 1,080; 


more channel options for financial services than 7% 


any other organization in the Southwest; from A . 
: , Arizona Opportunity 

Yuma, Arizona to Brownsville, Texas, USA's top , 
We're one of the largest mortgage 

lenders in Arizona but our competitors 
originate 93% of all new mortgage loans 


in the state. 


NAFTA financial services company. 


California 

* Assets: $51 billion 

* Team Members: 6,743 

* Stores: 1,032 

* Overview: California, Wells Fargo’s largest market 
(pop. 30 million), world’s seventh largest economy, 
USA's largest small business market, housing 
market and largest farm economy. Greater Los 
Angeles metro: $14+ billion in consumer and small 
business deposits. San Francisco Bay Area: $17 billion 
in deposits. Southern California: $8 billion in deposits. 


DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL GROUP 


¢ Auto Finance, Insurance, Education Finance, 
U.S.-Mexico Border Strategy, SBA Lending, 
Cash-Based Business Strategy 

* Assets: $15 billion 

* Team Members: 2,704 

* Overview: Auto Finance: $10 billion in assets, 
coast to coast through 7,000+ car dealers; ranks #3 
in leasing and #5 in all categories combined; 


Central California: $4+ billion in deposits. Northern 


California: $6+ billion in deposits. 


Business Banking Group: National provider of 4% 


capital and financial services that small businesses 


need to grow and prosper. USA's #1 small business Business Banking Opportunity 
We’re the USA's largest small business 


lender, ranked by number of loans. lender among banks but our national 


Phone Banking: Enables customers in 21 states to market share is only 4%. 
transfer funds between accounts, check balances 
and transactions, pay bills, and much more, 24 hours 
a day, seven days a week, touch-tone or witha 


live agent. 


Education Finance: $5 billion in receivables in 
all 50 states, ranks #1 in origination volume; 
Insurance: USA's largest bank-affiliated insurance 


agency, second largest crop insurer; USA's #2 SBA 


—s. 
SBA Lending Opportunity 


We're the USA's 2nd largest SBA lender 
among banks but our national market 
share is only 1.8%. 


lender among banks. Largest financial services 
provider from Gulf of Mexico to Pacific Ocean 
along the U.S.-Mexican border: $3.5 billion 

in assets. 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 27 


MORTGAGE AND HOME EQUITY GROUP 


NORWEST MORTGAGE HOME EQUITY 

* ‘98 net income: $217.4 million * Portfolio: $14+ billion 

* 98 originations: $109.4 billion * Customers: 500,000+ 

* Consecutive years of earnings growth: 10 * #2 nationally among all banks 

* Stores: 829; presence in all 50 states CORPORATE TRUST 

* Customers: 2.3 million * Trustee for 7,000+ issues worth $190 billion 

* USA's largest mortgage originator in debt. 

* USA's second largest servicer: $245.2 billion + Largest master servicer of mortgage-backed Norwest Mortgage has the most extensive retail 
* USA's leading lender to first-time home buyers securities: $100+ billion. franchise of any mortgage lender in USA. 
* USA's leading lender to home builders * Leading trustee for privately-placed, asset- 


* 10-year compound annual growth rate: backed securities. 


50 percent 


3% 


Mortgage Opportunity 

Wells Fargo has 5.5 million banking house- 
holds in Calif. Ore., Wash., Id., and Utah. 
Only 3% of them have a mortgage 
with Norwest. 


INVESTMENTS GROUP 


* Assets under management: $121 billion private banking, 660 financial consultants in 
* Team Members: 6,000 21 states. Largest personal trust company in 
+ Institutional Trust: Employee benefit plan and Western Us, withrse2 billion In trustand 45% 
institutional trust assets under administration: custody assets. , 
$260+ billion. Retirement and custody services: * Online financial services: Enables customers Investment Opportunity 
investment management, trustee services, to pay bills to anyone in the USA, view Only 4.5% of our retail banking customers 
recordkeeping, employee education, master trust, account information, transfer funds between invest through Wells Fargo. 
securities lending, performance measurement accounts. WellsTrade — online trading for 
and safekeeping. 650,000 plan participants. One self-directed investors. 
of 20 largest 401(k) providers. Ranked #1 in USA * Mutual Funds: Merged Stagecoach Funds and 
for client satisfaction. Norwest Advantage Funds will become 6th largest 
* Institutional Brokerage: 70+ registered represen- bank-advised mutual fund family. 85 funds, $52+ 
tatives, 14,000+ customers.’98: expanded broker/ billion in assets. Stagecoach Funds: 42 mutual 
dealer powers to include underwriting and sale of funds, $28+ billion in assets. Norwest Advantage 
all fixed income products. Expanded ability to offer Funds: 43 mutual funds, $24 billion in assets. 
same-day sweep products, mortgage-backed secu- * Wells Capital Management : Investment 
rities and corporate securities, Leading underwriter management for large institutional clients 
of municipal securities in the Midwest. including corporations, commingled funds 
* Private Client Services: Integrated financial and pension plans. With Norwest Investment 
solutions for high net worth and affluent Management, Inc., 100+ investment professionals 
individuals — personal trust, investment manage- in 10 states direct the investment management 
ment, full service and discount brokerage services, of $65+ billion in portfolio balances. 
NORWEST EQUITY PARTNERS/NORWEST VENTURE PARTNERS 


Wells Fargo’s private equity investment businesses: capitalized with $250 million of commitments. Palo 
* Norwest Equity Partners: Invests in mature, grow- Alto, Calif; Wellesley, Mass. 
ing companies including management buyouts, * Invested in 450+ companies since founding 
recapitalizations and industry consolidations. in’61 
Norwest Equity Partners VI capitalized at $300 * Invested $228 million in ‘98 


million. Minneapolis, Los Angeles. * Manages $1.5+ billion in capital 


* Norwest Venture Partners: Provides equity and commitments 
capital for early stage emerging companies in 
information technology industries. In 1998 its most 
recent fund, Norwest Venture Partners VII, was 


28 THE BUSINESSES OF WELLS FARGO 


NORWEST FINANCIAL 


* ‘98 operating income: $210 million 

* Stores: 1,350 

* Receivables: $9.4 billion 

* Team members: 11,777 

* Overview: Developing new information manage- 
ment system that promotes cross-sell and ready 
access to customer account information; enables 
store managers to review dealer contracts online. 
New “cash on demand” ATM products for revolving 
loan customers, grew loan balances in ‘98 by 
almost $40 million. 

* Norwest Financial: Consumer finance, 813 stores 

in 47 states. 


WHOLESALE BANKING 


* Trans Canada Credit: Consumer finance, 
147 stores, all 10 provinces. 


* National Retail Credit Services (formerly 
Eaton’s Credit): One of Canada’s largest credit 
card operations, providing “private label” service 
to Eaton’s Department Store customers and 
other retailers. 


* Island Finance: Consumer finance, 149 stores, 
Caribbean, Latin America. 

* Community Credit, Fidelity Financial Services: 
Automobile finance, 228 stores, 33 states. 


We want to “Out Local the Nationals and Out National 
the Locals:"” We must offer better products and a 
broader product line than our local competitors so we 
can be the financial services provider of choice. We also 
must out-perform our national competitors by staying 
close to our customers, understanding their needs, 


and providing professional, personalized, timely service. 


Managing Partner George Still (Norwest Venture Partners); Group Executive Vice President Mark Oman 
(Mortgage and Home Equity Group); Managing Partner John Lindahl (Norwest Equity Partners), Executive 
Vice President M. Lucile Reid (Consumer Banking Group); Group Executive Vice President Clyde Ostler (Investments Group); 


Chairman and CEO David Wood (Norwest Financial); and Group Executive Vice President Dave Hoyt (Wholesale Banking) 


Norwest Financial's retail network stretches 
from Saipan through Canada, across the 
USA, the Caribbean into Latin America. 


40% 


Consumer Finance Opportunity 

40% of Norwest Financial's eligible 
customers have signed up for the new 
Cash on Demand (C.0.D.) ATM revolving 
loan product. Sales to the other 60% could 
generate $140+ million in new loans. 


* Assets: $41 billion 


* Team Members: 4,063 


* Capital Markets Group: Real estate merchant 
banking, structured finance, commercial fixed rate 
mortgage originations, and other capital markets 
debt products. 


* Commercial Banking: Serves middle market 
customers from 40 locations across 21-state 
Wells Fargo/Norwest banking franchise. 


* Corporate Banking: Serving large corporate 
customers with annual sales of $250+ million. 


* The Foothill Group: Asset-based lending 
throughout the USA and asset management for 
institutional investors. 


* Norwest Equipment Finance: A leading 
provider of equipment loans/leases. 


* Norwest Business Credit: Asset-based lending, 
factoring, debtor in possession financing. 


+ Real Estate Lending Group: Serves large-scale 
real estate customers. 


* Shareowner Services: USA's 6th largest stock 
transfer agent; 420 corporate customers in 36 
states. Ranked #1 in customer satisfaction 5 of 
last 6 years. 


* Treasury Management: USA's 2nd largest origi- 
nator of automated clearinghouse transactions. 


+ International Banking: The Wells Fargo HSBC 
Trade Bank (USA’s only nationally-chartered bank 
exclusively for international trade); Foreign 
Exchange (helps middle market companies 
manage currency trading risk). 


20% 


'— Wholesale Banking Opportunity 
In our recent surveys, wholesale customers 
tell us they need an average of seven more 
financial services products. So far, we've 
identified 14,000 new product sales oppor- 
tunities from 20% of our customers. 


FARGO & COMPANY 29 


BOARD OF DIRECTORS 


Leslie S. Biller 


Vice Chairman, Chief Operating Officer 


Wells Fargo & Company, 
San Francisco, Calif. 


J.A. Blanchard Ill 1,2,3 
Chairman, President, CEO 


Deluxe Corporation, Shoreview, Minn. 
(Paper and electronic payment services) 


Michael R. Bowlin 4,5 
Chairman, President, CEO, COO 
Atlantic Richfield Company, 
Los Angeles, Calif. 

(Integrated oil company) 


Edward M.Carson 2,3 
Retired Chairman 

First Interstate Bancorp, 

Los Angeles, Calif. 


David A. Christensen 1,2,3 
President, CEO 

Raven Industries, Inc,, 

Sioux Falls, S.D. 

(Diversified manufacturer) 


William S. Davila 1,4 
Retired President Emeritus 
The Vons Companies, Inc., 
Los Angeles, Calif. 

(Food retailing) 


Susan E.Engel 3,4 
Chair, President, CEO 
Department 56 Inc., 
Eden Prairie, Minn. 
(Specialty retailer) 


CORPORATE EXECUTIVES 


Paul Hazen 
Chairman 

Wells Fargo & Company, 
San Francisco, Calif. 


William A.Hodder 2,5 
Retired Chairman, CEO 
Donaldson Company, Inc., 
Minneapolis, Minn. 

(Filtration device manufacturer) 


Rodney L. Jacobs 

Vice Chairman, Chief Financial Officer 
Wells Fargo & Company, 

San Francisco, Calif. 


Reatha Clark King 1,3 
President, Executive Director 
General Mills Foundation, 
Minneapolis, Minn. 
(Charitable foundation) 


Richard M. Kovacevich 
President, CEO 

Wells Fargo & Company, 
San Francisco, Calif. 


Richard D.McCormick 4,5 
Chairman of the Board 

US WEST, Inc., Englewood, Colo. 
(Communications) 


Cynthia H. Milligan 1,4 

Dean 

College of Business Administration, 
University of Nebraska-Lincoln, Neb. 
(Higher education) 


Benjamin F.Montoya 1,4 
President, CEO 

Public Service Company of 
New Mexico, Albuquerque, N.M. 
(Public utility) 


Philip J. Quigley 1,2,3 
Retired Chairman, President, CEO 
Pacific Telesis Group, 

San Francisco, Calif. 
(Telecommunications) 


Donald B.Rice 2,5 
President, CEO 
UroGenesis, Inc., 

Santa Monica, Calif. 
(Biotechnology) 


lan M.Rolland 4,5 
Chairman of the Board 
Lincoln National Corporation, 
Fort Wayne, Ind. 

(Insurance) 


Judith M.Runstad 1,4 
Partner 

Foster Pepper & Schefelman PLLC, 
Seattle, Wash. 

(Law firm) 


Susan G.Swenson 1,3 
President, CEO 

Cellular One, 

South San Francisco, Calif. 
(Wireless communications) 


Daniel M.Tellep 3,45 

Retired Chairman 

Lockheed Martin Corporation, 
Bethesda, Md. 

(Aerospace and defense manufacturer) 


Chang-LinTien 1,4 

Professor of Engineering, Former Chancellor 
U. of California, Berkeley, Calif. 

(Higher education) 


Michael W. Wright 2,3,5 
Chairman, President, CEO 
SUPERVALU INC, 
Minneapolis, Minn. 

(Food distribution, retailing) 


John A. Young 2,3,5 

Retired President, CEO 
Hewlett-Packard Company, 

Palo Alto, Calif. 

(Computers, peripheral equipment) 


Committees 

Audit and Examination...1 
Board Affairs...2 

Credit...3 

Finance...4 

Human Resources...5 


OFFICE OF THE CHAIRMAN 


Paul Hazen, 
Chairman* 


Richard M., Kovacevich, 
President, CEO* 


Leslie S. Biller, 
Vice Chairman, 
Chief Operating Officer* 


Rodney L. Jacobs, 
Vice Chairman, 
Chief Financial Officer* 


30 


John A. Berg, Group EVP,* 
Central Banking Group 


Patricia R. Callahan,* 
Human Resources 


James R. Campbell, Group EVP,* 
Minnesota Banking 


Terri A. Dial, Group EVP,* 
California, Business Banking, 
Telephone Banking, 
Distribution Strategies 


C. Webb Edwards, 
Technology and Operations Group 


Thomas E. Emerson, 
Chief Auditor 


George W.Fehlhaber, 
Treasurer 


John E. Ganoe, 
Corporate Development 


Cynthia J. Gray, 
Marketing 


Lawrence P. Haeg, 
Corporate Communications 


Laurel A, Holschuh, 
Corporate Secretary 


Seawadon L. Houston, 
Doing it Right for the Customer 


David A. Hoyt, Group EVP.* 
Wholesale Banking 


Ross J. Kari, 
Deputy Chief Financial Officer 


Ely L. Licht,* 
Chief Credit Officer 


Kenneth R. Murray, Group EVP,* 
Diversified Financial Group 


John C. Nelson, Group EVP,* 
Western Banking Group 


Mark C.Oman, Group EVP,* 
Mortgage and Home Equity Group 


Clyde W. Ostler, Group EVP,* 
Investments Group 


Les L. Quock,* 
Controller 


M. Lucile Reid, EVP, 
Consumer Banking Group 


Eric D. Shand, 
Chief Loan Examiner 


Robert S. Strickland, 
Investor Relations 


Stanley S. Stroup,* 
General Counsel, 
Government Relations 


John G. Stumpf, Group EVP* 
Southwestern Banking Group 


J. Daniel Vandermark, 
Corporate Tax 


“Executive officers 


SENIOR BUSINESS OFFICERS 


CALIFORNIA, BUSINESS 
BANKING, TELEPHONE BANKING, 
DISTRIBUTION STRATEGIES 
GROUP HEAD 

Terri A. Dial 


Robert Chlebowski, Distribution 
Strategies Group 


Michael R. James, Business Banking Group 
Colleen M. Anderson, Business Banking 
Marc L. Bernstein, Business Direct 
Rebecca Macieira-Kaufmann, Marketing 
Debra B. Rossi, Electronic Payment Services 
John W. Baker, Payroll Business 
Michelle Banaugh, Merchant E-Commerce 
Charles Drucker, Merchant Card 
Leonard A. Gucciardi, Phone Bank 


REGIONAL PRESIDENTS 

Colleen M. Anderson, Southern California 
Anat Bird, Northern California 

Lynn A. Pike, Greater Los Angeles 

Carrie L. Tolstedt, Central California 

Byron A. Scordelis, San Francisco/Oakland/ 
San Jose Bay Area 

REGIONAL MANAGERS 

Scott R. Andrews, San Diego East 

Daniel K. Bailey, North Valley 

Shelley L. Benson, Downtown/West Los Angeles 
Michael F. Billeci, San Jose 

Darrell R. Brown, San Fernando Valley 
Pamela M. Conboy, San Gabriel Valley 
Barbara A. Crist, South Alameda 

Robert J.Crouch, Capital City 

Caren J. Courtney, Golden Gate 

Linda V. Deboe, North Peninsula 

Diane P. DeRousseau, San Diego West 

Leo Gonzalez, South Los Angeles/South Bay 
Steve R. Hafen, Pacific Coast 

Andrew P. Mastorakis, Contra Costa 
Gregory L. Morgan, Marin 

Willie A. Natt, East Bay 

Debra J. Paterson, Inland Valley 

John A, Sotoodeh, Silicon Valley 

Lisa J. Stevens, San Francisco 

Brad L.Tolstedt, Vineyard 

Kim P. Young, Orange County Coastal 


WESTERN BANKING GROUP 


GROUP HEAD 
John C. Nelson 


REGIONAL PRESIDENTS 

David E. Bailey, Metro Denver 

Robert W. Byrne, Washington 

George J. Passadore, Oregon/Idaho 
Linda J. Petty, Greater Colorado/Utah 
Laura A. Schulte, Nevada 

Robert D. Worth, Montana/Wyoming 


REGIONAL MANAGERS 

Kirk V. Clausen, Northern Nevada 
Las Vegas 

Bryan Walters, Southern Nevada 


SOUTHWESTERN BANKING 
GROUP 

GROUP HEAD 

John G. Stumpf 


REGIONAL PRESIDENTS 

Jon R. Campbell, Arizona 

Timothy J. Coughlon, Texas Major Markets 
William R. Goertz, Central Texas 

Larry D, Willard, New Mexico/ West Texas 
Paul W. (Chip) Carlisle, Houston 


REGIONAL MANAGERS 

Nathan E. Christian, Border Banking 

John T. Gavin, Fort Worth/Dallas 

Thomas W. Honig, Austin 

Robert A. Jung Il, Albuquerque 

Craig A. Ockers, Southern Arizona 

Gerrit van Huisstede, Metro Phoenix 
Patrick G. Yalung, Northern Arizona 

Dean A. Rennell, Phoenix Business Banking 


CENTRAL BANKING GROUP 


GROUP HEAD 
John A. Berg 


REGIONAL PRESIDENTS 

Terry D. Baloun, South Dakota, SW Minnesota 
Kirk E, Dean, North Dakota, NW Minnesota 

William J. Dewhurst, Indiana/Ohio 

H. Lynn Horak, lowa 

J. Lanier Little, Wisconsin/llinois 

Judith A. Owen, Nebraska 


REGIONAL MANAGERS 
Alan V. Johnson, Indiana/Ohio 
J. Scott Johnson, lowa 


MINNESOTA BANKING GROUP 


GROUP HEAD 
James R. Campbell 


William L. Meyer, Correspondent Banking 


Robert B. Mersky, Peregrine Capital 
Management 


Erich A. Schultz, Correspondent Banking 


REGIONAL PRESIDENT 
Patrick J. Donovan, Twin Cities 


REGIONAL MANAGERS 

Philip Rolle, Northern Minnesota 

Norbert D. Harrington, Southern Minnesota 
Marilyn J. Dahl, Twin Cities Retail Banking 
Gerald B. Stenson, Twin Cities Business Banking 


DIVERSIFIED FINANCIAL GROUP 


GROUP HEAD 
Kenneth R. Murray 


Jerry E. Gray, SBA Lending 
Timothy J. King, President, Norwest Insurance 


Michael E, Connealy, President, Rural 
Community Insurance Agency, Inc. 


Steven C. Veno, Norwest Insurance 
Richard T. Schliesmann, Auto Finance Group 
Dianne D. Breuer, Auto Lending 
Brent C. Fossey, Dealer Finance 
Keith A. Wilton, Auto Leasing 
Jon A. Veenis, Education Finance 


MORTGAGE AND 
HOME EQUITY GROUP 


GROUP HEAD 


Mark C.Oman, Chairman and CEO, 
Norwest Mortgage, Inc. 


NORWEST MORTGAGE, INC. 


Peter J. Wissinger, Group Managing Director, 
Sales and Operations 


Cara K. Heiden, National Consumer 
Lending Sales 


Joseph W. Rogers, National Consumer 
Lending Sales 


Chuck Ohmer, National Consumer 
Lending Sales 


Michael Heid, Loan Servicing 

Patrick M. Sheehy, Institutional Lending 

Daniel Russell, Affordable Housing 
Robert K. Chapman, Chief Financial Officer 


Geoffrey H. Dreyer, Managing Director, 
Risk Management 


HOME EQUITY LENDING 
Doreen Woo Ho, Group Managing Director 


Judith A. Berry, Directors Acceptance 
Corporation 


Kathleen Vaughan, Norwest Direct 
J. Kirk Simpson, Norwest Home Improvement 
Marshall R. Miller, Strategic Risk Management 


CORPORATE TRUST SERVICE 
Kevin A. Rhein, Business Manager 


INVESTMENTS GROUP 


GROUP HEAD 
Clyde W. Ostler 


Peter E. Glanville, Managing Principal, 
Lowry Hill Investment Advisors, Inc. 


P. Jay Kiedrowski, Trust Operations 

Dennis Mooradian, Private Client Services 
Michael J. Conway, Southwest 
Charles W. Daggs Ill, Northern California 
Joseph W. DeFur, Northwest 
John R. Farrish, Minnesota 
Dennis G. Hoffman, Great Plains 
David M. Jones, South 

_ Robert L. Roszkos, Southern California 
James J. Urbanek, Midwest 

Michael J. Niedermeyer, Institutional Businesses 


Robert W. Bissell, President Wells Capital 
Management 


Michael J. Hogan, Mutual Funds 
James Paulsen, Wells Capital Management 


Sharon Osberg, Online Financial 
Services Group 


WHOLESALE BANKING 


GROUP HEAD 
David A. Hoyt 


Paul M. Watson, Commercial and Corporate 
Banking Groups 


Iris S. Chan, Northern California, 
Pacific Northwest 


William W. Henderson, Arizona, Nevada, 
Utah, Central California 


Robert A. Chereck, Texas 
Albert (Rick) F. Ehrke, Southern California 


Richard P. Ferris, Corporate Banking, 
Treasury Management Sales, 
Shareowner Services 


Michael J. Loughlin, Senior Credit Officer, 
Commercial, Corporate 


Timothy J. Sloan, Capital Markets 


J. Michael Johnson, Structured Finance , 
Distribution 


A, Larry Chapman, Real Estate Group 


Robin W. Michel, Northern California, 
Northwest 


James H. Muir, Midwest East Coast 
Stephen P. Prinz, Texas, Central US 
Timothy W. Washburn, Southern California 


Thomas J Davis, Senior Credit Officer, 
Real Estate 


David J. Zuercher, International Group, 
Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank 


Peter P. Connolly, Foreign Exchange 


Richard C, Westergaard, Specialized Financial 
Services Group 
Martin J. McKinley, President, Norwest 
Business Credit, Inc. 
James R. Renner, President , Wells Fargo 
Equipment Finance, Inc. 


John F. Nickoll, Chairman and Chief Executive 
Officer, The Foothill Group, Inc. 


Peter. E. Schwab, President, Foothill 
Capital Corporation 


NORWEST EQUITY PARTNERS 
John E. Lindahl, Managing Partner 


NORWEST VENTURE PARTNERS 
George J. Still, Jr, Managing Partner 


CONSUMER BANKING GROUP 
M. Lucile Reid 


Leslie L. Altick, Checking, Fee-Based Services 
James K. Ketcham, Deposit Risk Operations 


P. Andrew Will, Savings, Investment 
Products, Premier Banking 


NORWEST FINANCIAL 

David C. Wood, Chairman and CEO 

Rex J. Ellinson, SVP, Division Manager 
Tammeria K. Hawks, SVP, Division Manager 
Greg M. Janasko, SVP, Division Manager 


Dennis N. Johnston, EVP, President, 
Information Services 


Ronald L. Lottes, EVP 
Curtis M. Martin, SVP, Division Manager 


Patricia J. McFarland, SVP, 
General Counsel, Secretary 


Thomas P. Shippee, EVP 

John W. Sondereker, EVP 

Eric T. Torkelson, SVP, Controller 

Dennis E. Young, EVP, Chief Financial Officer 


TECHNOLOGY AND 
OPERATIONS GROUP 
GROUP HEAD 

C. Webb Edwards 


TECHNOLOGY SERVICES 


Barry X Lynn, President, Chief Technology 
Officer 


Susan A. Blew, Information Technology 


Kenneth R. Chrisman, Retail and 
Consumer Banking 


Kathryn J. DeWit, New Technology 
Business/Corporate LAN 


Marcia J. Donner, Customer Service Group 
Bruce A. Hartsough, Systems Architecture 
Sherry D. Nash, Corporate Data Networks 


Mike D. Noble, Shared Application Development 


Wayne A. Mekjian, Chief Technology 
Officer, Operations 


William J. Wood, Chief Technology Officer, 
Wholesale 


Anthony M. Padinha, Data Centers 
Walter L. Jones, Data Centers 


OPERATIONS SERVICES 
Diana Starcher, Payment Services 
Terry L, Allen, Wholesale Operations 


MARKETING 
Cynthia J. Gray, EVP 


Karen M.Alnes, Privacy Policies 

Jay M. Bozicevich, Sales Systems 

Beth Anne Dalby, Sales Programs 
Melinda M. Denton, Market Research 
Betsy Dobel, Marketing Integration 


Naomi J. Kaufman, Marketing Decision 
Support System 


Lori L.McCarney, Brand Management 
David S. Merlo, Direct Marketing 
Michael W. Morgan, Customer Analysis 
Jason C. Yates, Sales Tracking System 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 


31 


BRAND NEW OPPORTUNITIES — STORES STATE BY STATE* 


ALABAMA 
Norwest Financial 33 
Fidelity Financial 6 
Norwest Mortgage 6 
ATI Title Company 4 


ALASKA 
Norwest Financial 6 
Norwest Mortgage 3 


ARIZONA 
Wells Fargo Community Banking 232 
Norwest Community Banking 89 
ATI Title Company 25 
Investment Services 23 
Norwest Financial 17 
Norwest Mortgage 15 
Norwest Investment 

Management and Trust 6 
Community Credit 5 
Fidelity Financial 4 
Norwest Insurance 3 
Norwest Card Services 2 
Norwest Ag Credit 2 
Norwest World Banking 1 
Norwest Equipment Finance 1 
Norwest Business Credit 1 
Norwest Structured Finance 1 
Norwest Auto Finance | 
Norwest Master Trust and Custody 1 
Norwest Corporate Trust 1 
Wells Fargo Foreign Exchange 1 
Wells Fargo Business Banking Center 1 
Wells Fargo Commercial Banking 1 
Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage | 
Corporate Banking 1 


ARKANSAS 
Norwest Mortgage 10 


CALIFORNIA 

Wells Fargo Community Banking 1,032 
Norwest Mortgage 103 

Norwest Financial 79 

Fidelity Financial 28 

Wells Fargo Business 

Banking Center 25 

Wells Fargo Commercial Banking 19 
Wells Fargo Commercial Real Estate 6 
Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage 5 
Community Credit 3 

Wells Fargo Trade Bank 3 

ATI Title Company 3 

Norwest Business Credit 2 

Foothill 2 

Wells Fargo Foreign Exchange 2 
Corporate Banking 2 

Structured Finance 2 

Rural Community Insurance Services 1 
Norwest Venture Capital | 

Rate Risk Management | 


COLORADO 
Norwest Community Banking 97 
Norwest Mortgage 51 
Investment Services 41 
Wells Fargo Community Banking 17 
Norwest Financial 14 
Norwest Investment 

Management and Trust 7 
Community Credit 5 
Fidelity Financial 4 
Norwest Insurance 3 
Norwest Card Services 2 
Norwest Equipment Finance 2 
Norwest Ag Credit 1 
Norwest World Banking 1 
Norwest Business Credit 1 
Norwest Structured Finance 1 
Norwest Auto Finance i 
Norwest Corporate Trust 1 
Wells Fargo Trade Bank 1 
Wells Fargo Foreign Exchange 1 
Wells Fargo Business Banking Center 1 
Wells Fargo Commercial Banking 1 
Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage | 
Wells Fargo Corporate Banking 1 
Business Banking Center 1 
Wells Fargo Commercial Real Estate 1 


CONNECTICUT 

Norwest Mortgage 3 
Norwest Financial 3 

Norwest Equipment Finance 1 


DELAWARE 
Norwest Mortgage 4 
Norwest Financial 2 
Fidelity Financial 1 


FLORIDA 

Norwest Financial 42 
Norwest Mortgage 33 
Fidelity Financial 4 

ATI Title Company 2 
GEORGIA 

Norwest Financial 21 


Norwest Mortgage 18 
Fidelity Financial 12 


*2/99 


32 


Investment Services 3 

Norwest Equipment Finance 2 
Foothill 1 

Community Credit 1 

Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage | 
Wells Fargo Commercial Real Estate 1 


GUAM 
Norwest Financial 3 


HAWAII 

Norwest Financial 12 
Norwest Mortgage 9 
Fidelity Financial 1 


IDAHO 

Wells Fargo Community Banking 17 
Norwest Financial 13 

Norwest Mortgage 9 

Norwest Ag Credit 1 

Fidelity Financial 1 

Wells Fargo Commercial Banking 1 


ILLINOIS 
Norwest Mortgage 27 
Norwest Financial 26 
Norwest Community Banking 10 
Community Credit 10 
Fidelity Financial 7 
Norwest Investment 
Management and Trust 3 
ATI Title Company 3 
Norwest Equipment Finance 2 
Norwest Business Credit 1 
Foothill 1 
Norwest Master Trust and Custody 1 
Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage 1 
Corporate Banking 1 
Wells Fargo Commercial Real Estate 1 


INDIANA 
Norwest Community Banking 44 
Norwest Mortgage 26 
Norwest Financial 16 
Investment Services 14 
Norwest Investment 
Management and Trust 6 
Fidelity Financial 6 
Community Credit 3 
Norwest Business Credit 2 
ATl Title Company 2 
Norwest Card Services 1 
Norwest Insurance 1 
Norwest World Banking 1 
Norwest Corporate Trust 1 


1OWA 

Norwest Community Banking 48 

Investment Services 30 

Norwest Mortgage 23 

Norwest Financial 15 

Norwest Investment 
Management and Trust 11 

Norwest Insurance 7 

ATI Title Company 4 

Norwest Card Services 2 

Public Finance 2 

Norwest Ag Credit 1 

Norwest World Banking 1 

Norwest Equipment Finance 1 

Norwest Business Credit 1 

Norwest Auto Finance 1 

Community Credit 1 

Norwest Corporate Trust 1 


KANSAS 

Norwest Financial 7 
Fidelity Financial 6 
ATI Title Company 3 
Norwest Mortgage 2 


KENTUCKY 
Norwest Financial 18 
Norwest Mortgage 6 
Fidelity Financial 4 
Community Credit 1 


LOUISIANA 
Norwest Financial 30 
Norwest Mortgage 11 
Fidelity Financial 4 


MAINE 
Norwest Financial 2 


MARYLAND 

Norwest Financial 20 
Norwest Mortgage 12 

ATI Title Company 5 
Norwest Corporate Trust 1 


MASSACHUSETTS 
Norwest Mortgage 13 
Norwest Financial 11 
Norwest Business Credit 1 
Foothill 1 

Norwest Venture Capital 1 


MICHIGAN 

Norwest Mortgage 18 
Norwest Financial 5 

Norwest Equipment Finance 1 
Norwest Business Credit 1 
Fidelity Financial 1 


MINNESOTA 
Norwest Community Banking 168 
Investment Services 122 
Norwest Mortgage 62 
Community Credit 21 
ATI Title Company 17 
Norwest Insurance 17 
Norwest Financial 12 
Norwest Investment 

Management and Trust 9 
Norwest Card Services 2 
Norwest Ag Credit 2 
Norwest Employee Benefit Services 2 
Rural Community Insurance Services 1 
Norwest World Banking 1 
Norwest Equipment Finance 1 
Norwest Business Credit 1 
Norwest Structured Finance 1 
Norwest Auto Finance 1 
Norwest Shareowner Services 1 
Norwest Master Trust and Custody 1 
Norwest Corporate Trust 1 
Norwest Venture Capital 1 
Wells Fargo Foreign Exchange 1 
Wells Fargo Business Banking Center 1 
Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage 1 
Corporate Banking 1 
Communication Finance 1 
Structured Finance 1 
Public Finance 1 
Rate Risk Management 1 


MISSISSIPPI 
Norwest Financial 17 
Fidelity Financial 6 
Norwest Mortgage 1 


MISSOURI 

Norwest Financial 26 

Norwest Mortgage 12 

ATI Title Company 6 

Fidelity Financial 4 
Community Credit 4 

Norwest Equipment Finance 3 
Norwest Business Credit 1 


MONTANA 

Norwest Community Banking 41 

Investment Services 15 

Norwest Mortgage 9 

Norwest Financial 7 

Norwest Investment 
Management and Trust 4 

Norwest Card Services 1 

Norwest Insurance 1 

Norwest Equipment Finance 1 


NEBRASKA 
Norwest Community Banking 31 
Investment Services 12 
ATl Title Company 10 
Norwest Financial 10 
Norwest Mortgage 8 
Norwest Investment 
Management and Trust 6 
Norwest Card Services 2 
Norwest Ag Credit 2 
Norwest Insurance 1 
Norwest World Banking 1 
Norwest Corporate Trust 1 
Fidelity Financial 1 
Community Credit 1 


NEVADA 

Wells Fargo Community Banking 84 
Norwest Community Banking 54 
Investment Services 15 

Norwest Mortgage 14 

Norwest Financial 12 

ATI Title Company 3 

Norwest Card Services 2 

Fidelity Financial 2 

Community Credit 2 

Wells Fargo Business Banking Center 2 
Wells Fargo Commercial Banking 2 
Norwest Insurance 1 

Norwest Master Trust and Custody 1 


NEW HAMPSHIRE 
Norwest Mortgage 5 


NEW JERSEY 

Norwest Mortgage 12 
Norwest Financial 8 

Fidelity Financial 2 

Norwest Equipment Finance 1 


NEW MEXICO 

Norwest Community Banking 90 

Norwest Financial 20 

Investment Services 20 

Norwest Mortgage 15 

Wells Fargo Community Banking 5 

Norwest Investment 
Management and Trust 3 

Norwest Card Services 1 

Norwest Insurance 1 

Norwest Equipment Finance 1 

Norwest Business Credit 1 

Norwest Corporate Trust 1 

Fidelity Financial 1 

Community Credit 1 


NEW YORK 

Norwest Mortgage 19 
Norwest Financial 12 

ATI Title Company 7 
Norwest World Banking 1 
Norwest Business Credit 1 
Foothill 1 

Island Finance 1 


NORTH CAROLINA 

Norwest Financial 33 

Norwest Mortgage 24 

Rural Community Insurance Services 1 
Foothill 1 


NORTH DAKOTA 

Norwest Community Banking 26 

Investment Services 12 

Norwest Insurance 10 

Norwest Mortgage 8 

Norwest Financial 6 

Norwest Investment 
Management and Trust 3 

Norwest Equipment Finance 1 


OHIO 

Norwest Mortgage 28 

Norwest Financial 28 

Fidelity Financial 12 
Community Credit 6 

ATI Title Company 3 

Norwest Community Banking 1 
Investment Services 1 


OKLAHOMA 
Norwest Financial 14 
Norwest Mortgage 7 
Fidelity Financial 2 
Foothill 1 
Community Credit 1 


OREGON 

Wells Fargo Community Banking 119 
Norwest Mortgage 25 

Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage 15 
Norwest Financial 13 

Wells Fargo Business Banking Center 2 
Wells Fargo Commercial Banking 2 
Norwest Equipment Finance 1 

Wells Fargo Trade Bank 1 

Fidelity Financial 1 

Community Credit 1 

Corporate Banking 1 

Commercial Real Estate 1 


PENNSYLVANIA 
Norwest Financial 26 
Norwest Mortgage 17 
Fidelity Financial 2 
Community Credit 2 
ATl Title Company 1 


RHODE ISLAND 
Norwest Financial 4 
Norwest Mortgage 2 


SAIPAN, MARINA ISLANDS 
Norwest Financial 1 


SOUTH CAROLINA 
Norwest Financial 25 
Norwest Mortgage 7 
Fidelity Financial 2 


SOUTH DAKOTA 

Norwest Community Banking 52 

Investment Services 11 

Norwest Insurance 10 

Norwest Mortgage 10 

Norwest Investment 
Management and Trust 7 

Norwest Financial 3 

Norwest Ag Credit 2 

ATI Title Company 2 

Rural Community Insurance Services 1 

Norwest Card Services 1 

Public Finance 1 


TENNESSEE 
Norwest Financial 25 
Norwest Mortgage 9 
Fidelity Financial 7 
Community Credit 1 


TEXAS 
Norwest Community Banking 216 
Wells Fargo Community Banking 180 
Investment Services 52 
Norwest Financial 48 
Norwest Mortgage 40 
Norwest Investment 

Management and Trust 17 
Fidelity Financial 10 
Norwest Card Services 6 
Wells Fargo Commercial Banking 4 
Norwest Equipment Finance 3 
Norwest World Banking 2 
Norwest Business Credit 2 
Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage 2 
Commercial Real Estate 2 
Norwest Insurance 1 
Norwest Auto Finance 1 
Foothill 1 


Norwest Corporate Trust 1 
Wells Fargo Trade Bank 1 

Wells Fargo Foreign Exchange 1 
Corporate Banking 1 


UTAH 

Wells Fargo Community Banking 24 
Norwest Mortgage 13 

Norwest Financial 13 

Fidelity Financial 2 

Norwest Business Credit 1 
Community Credit 1 

Wells Fargo Commercial Banking 1 


VERMONT 
Norwest Mortgage 2 


VIRGINIA 

Norwest Mortgage 14 
Norwest Financial 10 
ATI Title Company 2 
Foothill 1 


WASHINGTON 

Wells Fargo Community Banking 134 
Norwest Mortgage 37 

Norwest Financial 21 

Investment Services 6 

Wells Fargo Commercial Banking 3 
Fidelity Financial 2 

Community Credit 2 

Norwest Business Credit 1 

Wells Fargo Trade Bank 1 

Wells Fargo Foreign Exchange 1 


WASHINGTON D.C. 
Wells Fargo Commercial Mortgage 1 
Wells Fargo Commercial Real Estate 1 


WEST VIRGINIA 
Norwest Financial 6 
Norwest Mortgage 2 


WISCONSIN 

Norwest Community Banking 48 

Norwest Mortgage 17 

Investment Services 15 

Norwest Financial 14 

Community Credit 9 

Norwest Investment 
Management and Trust 7 

Norwest Card Services 2 

Fidelity Financial 2 

Norwest Insurance 1 

Norwest World Banking 1 

Norwest Equipment Finance 1 

Norwest Business Credit 1 

Norwest Structured Finance 1 

Norwest Employee Benefit Services 1 

Norwest Corporate Trust | 


WYOMING 

Norwest Community Banking 7 

Norwest Mortgage 7 

Investment Services 4 

Norwest Financial 4 

Norwest Investment 
Management and Trust 2 

Norwest Ag Credit 1 

Norwest Corporate Trust 1 


CANADA (TRANS CANADA 
CREDIT CORP.) 
Ontario 43 

Quebec 21 

British Columbia 19 
Nova Scotia 17 
Newfoundland 15 
New Brunswick 12 
Alberta 10 

Manitoba 4 
Saskatchewan 4 
Prince Edward Island 2 


CARIBBEAN/CENTRAL AMERICA 
(ISLAND FINANCE) 

Puerto Rico 108 

Panama 16 

Netherland Antilles 8 

Virgin Islands 8 

Costa Rica 5 

Aruba 3 

Puerto Rico (Reliable Financial) 3 


ARGENTINA 
Finvercon — Buenos Aires 1 


BRAZIL 
Norwest World Banking - Sao Paulo 1 


HONG KONG 
Norwest World Banking 1 


TAIWAN 
Norwest World Banking — Taipei 1 


NORWEST FINANCIAL (OTHER) 
Dial National Bank 11 

Norwest Financial Leasing 3 

Aman Collection Service 1 
Norwest Financial Business Credit 1 
Dial Bank 1 

Norwest Financial Resources 1 


THIS FILE 


HAS NO 
CONTENT 


overview 


On November 2, 1998, Norwest Corporation changed 
its name to “Wells Fargo & Company” upon the merger 
(the Merger) of the former Wells Fargo & Company (the 
former Wells Fargo) into a wholly-owned subsidiary of 
Norwest Corporation. Norwest Corporation as it was 
before the Merger is referred to as the former Norwest. 
The Merger was accounted for as a pooling of interests 
and, accordingly, the information included in the financial 
review presents the combined results as if the Merger 
had been in effect for all periods presented. Certain 
amounts in the financial review for prior years have 
been reclassified to conform with the current financial 
statement presentation. 

Wells Fargo & Company is a $202 billion diversified 
financial services company providing banking, mortgage 
and consumer finance through about 6,000 stores and 
other distribution channels throughout North America, 
including all 50 states, and elsewhere internationally. 

It ranks seventh in assets at December 31, 1998 among 
U.S. bank holding companies. In this Annual Report, 
Wells Fargo & Company together with its subsidiaries is 
referred to as the Company and Wells Fargo & Company 
alone is referred to as the Parent. 

Net income in 1998 was $1,950 million, compared 
with $2,499 million in 1997, a decrease of 22%. Diluted 
earnings per common share were $1.17, compared with 
$1.48 in 1997, a decrease of 21%. 

Return on average assets (ROA) was 1.04% and 
return on average common equity (ROE) was 9.86% in 
1998, compared with 1.37% and 12.81%, respectively, 
in 1997, 

Diluted earnings before the amortization of goodwill 
and nonqualifying core deposit intangible (CDI) (“cash” 
or “tangible” earnings) were $1.50 per share in 1998, 
compared with $1.83 per share in 1997. On the same 
basis, ROA was 1.39% and ROE was 23.15% in 
1998, compared with 1.78% and 30.49%, respectively, 
in 1997, 

Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis was 
$9,049 million in 1998, compared with $8,705 million 
a year ago. The Company’s net interest margin was 
5.79% for 1998, compared with 5.86% in 1997. 

Noninterest income increased from $5,675 million 
in 1997 to $6,427 million in 1998, an increase of 13%. 

Noninterest expense totaled $10,579 million in 1998, 
compared with $8,990 million in 1997. The increase 
was primarily due to the Merger-related charges incurred 
during the fourth quarter. 


34 FINANCIAL REVIEW 


The provision for loan losses was $1,545 million in 
1998, compared with $1,140 million in 1997. During 
1998, net charge-offs were $1,617 million, or 1.52% of 
average total loans, compared with $1,305 million, or 
1.25%, during 1997. The allowance for loan losses was 
$3,134 million, or 2.90% of total loans, at December 31, 
1998, compared with $3,062 million, or 2.88%, at 
December 31, 1997. 

At December 31, 1998, total nonaccrual and restruc- 
tured loans were $710 million, or .7% of total loans, 
compared with $715 million, or .7%, at December 31, 
1997. Other real estate (ORE) was $173 million at 
December 31, 1998, compared with $264 million at 
December 31, 1997. 

The Company’s direct credit risk related to the ongoing 
volatility of the financial markets in Asia and, more 
recently, Latin America is predominantly short-term in 
nature and is relatively insignificant. However, the primary 
risk to the Company is the long-term effect of the Asian 
and Latin American financial markets on the economy of 
the U.S. and the Company’s borrowers. Understanding 
this risk is more difficult and depends on the passage of 
time. To date, while certain domestic sectors to which the 
Company has direct credit exposure have been adversely 
impacted by the disruptions in Asian financial markets, 
the results have not been material enough to create any 
significant credit losses for the Company. 

At December 31, 1998, the ratio of common stock- 
holders’ equity to total assets was 10.02%, compared 
with 10.40% at December 31, 1997. The Company’s 
total risk-based capital (RBC) ratio at December 31, 1998 
was 10.90% and its Tier 1 RBC ratio was 8.08%, 
exceeding the minimum regulatory guidelines of 8% 
and 4%, respectively, for bank holding companies. The 
Company’s ratios at December 31, 1997 were 11.20% 
and 8.16%, respectively. The Company’s leverage ratios 
were 6.58% and 6.72% at December 31, 1998 and 
1997, respectively, exceeding the minimum regulatory 
guideline of 3% for bank holding companies. 

This Annual Report (including information incorporat- 
ed by reference herein) includes forward-looking state- 
ments about the Company’s financial condition, results 
of operations, plans, objectives and future performance 
and business. These statements generally include the 
words “believe,” “expect,” “anticipate,” “estimate,” 
“may,” “will” or similar expressions that suggest the 
statements are forward looking in nature. 


These forward-looking statements involve inherent 
risks and uncertainties. The Company cautions readers 
that a number of factors — many of which are beyond 
the control of the Company — could cause actual results 
to differ materially from those in the forward-looking 
statements. Among these factors are changes in political 
and economic conditions, interest rate fluctuations, 
technological changes (including the “Year 2000” data 
systems compliance issue), customer disintermediation, 
competitive product and pricing pressures in the 
Company’s geographic and product markets, equity 
and fixed income market fluctuations, personal and 
commercial customers’ bankruptcies, inflation, changes 
in law, changes in fiscal, monetary, regulatory and tax 
policies, monetary fluctuations, credit quality and credit 
risk management, mergers and acquisitions, the integra- 
tion of merged and acquired companies, and success 
in gaining regulatory approvals when required. 

Also, actual results may differ materially from those 
in the forward-looking statements because of factors 
relating to the combination of the former Wells Fargo 
and the former Norwest Corporation, including the fol- 
lowing: expected cost savings from the Merger are not 
fully realized within the expected time frame or addition- 
al or unexpected costs are incurred; and costs or difficul- 
ties related to the integration of the former Wells Fargo 
and the former Norwest Corporation are greater 
than expected. 


RECENT ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 


The Company adopted on January 1, 1998, Statement 
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 130 (FAS 130), 
Reporting Comprehensive Income. This Statement sets 
standards for reporting and displaying comprehensive 
income and its components in the financial statements. 
It requires that a company classify items of other 
comprehensive income, as defined by accounting stan- 
dards, by their nature in the financial statements. Other 


comprehensive income, as defined, is net of income taxes. 


Cumulative other comprehensive income is displayed 
separately in the equity section of the balance sheet and 
the consolidated statement of changes in stockholders’ 
equity and comprehensive income. For comparative 
purposes, financial statements for earlier periods provided 
have been reclassified. The amount of income tax 
expense or benefit allocated to each component of 
other comprehensive income is presented in Note 16 

to Financial Statements. 


TABLE 1: RATIOS AND PER COMMON SHARE DATA 


Year ended December 31, 


($ in millions, except 


per share amounts) 1998 1997 1996 
PROFITABILITY RATIOS 
Net income to average total assets (ROA) 1.04% 1.37% 1.31% 


Net income applicable to common stock to 
average common stockholders’ equity (ROE) 9.86 12.81 12.73 
Net income to average stockholders’ equity 9.81 12.67 12.52 


EFFICIENCY RATIO (1) 68.5% 62.8% 67.0% 


NET INCOME AND RATIOS EXCLUDING 
GOODWILL AND NONQUALIFYING 
CORE DEPOSIT INTANGIBLE (CDI) 
AMORTIZATION AND BALANCES 
(“CASH” OR “TANGIBLE”) (2) 


Net income applicable to common stock $2,465 $3,031 $2,616 


Earnings per common share 1.52 1.85 1.68 
Diluted earnings per common share 1.50 1.83 1.67 
ROA 1.39% 1.78% 1.66% 
ROE 23.15 30.49 28.55 
Efficiency ratio 64.3 57.8 63.5 
CAPITAL RATIOS 
At year end: 
Common stockholders’ equity to assets 10.02% 10.40% 10.21% 
Stockholders’ equity to assets 10.25 10.65 = 10.63 
Risk-based capital (3) 
Tier 1 capital 8.08 8.16 7.96 
Total capital 10.90 11.20 11.11 
Leverage (3) 6.58 6.72 6.36 
Average balances: 
Common stockholders’ equity to assets 10.31 10.52 9.91 
Stockholders’ equity to assets 10.56 10.82 10.48 
PER COMMON SHARE DATA 
Dividend payout (4) 59% 41% 38% 
Book value $12.35 $11.92 $11.66 
Market prices (5): 
High $43.88 $39.50 $23.44 
Low 27.50 21.63 15.25 
Year end 39.94 38.75 21.75 


(1) The efficiency ratio is defined as noninterest expense divided by the total of 
net interest income and noninterest income. 


(2) Nonqualifying core deposit intangible (acquired after regulatory rule changes in 
1992) amortization and average balance excluded from these calculations are, 
with the exception of the efficiency ratio, net of applicable taxes. The after-tax 
amounts for the amortization and average balance of nonqualifying CDI were 
$129 million and $906 million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 
1998. Goodwill amortization and average balance (which are not tax effected) 
were $421 million and $7,865 million, respectively, for the year ended 
December 31, 1998. See page 44 for additional information. 


(3) See Note 22 to Financial Statements for additional information. 


(4) Dividends declared per common share as a percentage of earnings per 
common share. 


(5) Based on daily prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite 
Transaction Reporting System. 


FINANCIAL REVIEW 35 


The Company adopted on December 31, 1998, FAS 
131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and 
Related Information. The Statement requires that a pub- 
lic business enterprise report financial and descriptive 
information about its reportable operating segments on 
the basis that is used internally for evaluating segment 
performance and deciding how to allocate resources 
to segments. 

The Company adopted on December 31, 1998, FAS 
132, Employers’ Disclosures about Pensions and Other 
Postretirement Benefits. The Statement only addresses 
disclosure issues; it does not address measurement and 
recognition of pensions and other postretirement bene- 
fits. This Statement requires the reconciliation of changes 
in benefit obligations and plan assets for both pensions 
and other postretirement benefits, showing the effects of 
the major components separately for each reconciliation. 

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards 
Board (FASB) issued FAS 133, Accounting for Derivative 
Instruments and Hedging Activities, which will be 
effective for the Company’s financial statements for 
periods beginning January 1, 2000. This Statement 
requires companies to record derivatives on the balance 


TABLE 2: SIX-YEAR SUMMARY OF SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 


(in millions, except 
per share amounts) 


1998 1997 1996 

INCOME STATEMENT 
Net interest income $ 8990 $ 8,648 $ 8,222 
Provision for loan losses 1,545 1,140 500 
Noninterest income 6,427 5,675 4,769 
Noninterest expense 10,579 8,990 8,724 
Net income 1,950 2,499 2,228 
Earnings per common share $ 118 $ 150 $ 1.38 
Diluted earnings 

per common share 1.17 1.48 1.36 
Dividends declared 

per common share (1) 70 615 O29 
BALANCE SHEET 
(at year end) 
Securities available for sale $ 31,997 $ 27,872 $ 29,752 
Loans 107,994 106,311 105,760 
Allowance for loan losses 3,134 3,062 3,059 
Goodwill 7,664 8,062 8,200 
Assets 202,475 185,685 188,633 
Core deposits 132,289 122,327 128,178 
Long-term debt 19,709 17,335 18,142 
Guaranteed preferred beneficial 

interests in Company’s 

subordinated debentures 785 1,299 {SO 
Common stockholders’ equity 20,296 19,315 19,262 
Stockholders’ equity 20,759 19,778 20,051 


sheet, measured at fair value. Changes in the fair values 
of those derivatives would be accounted for depending 
on the use of the derivative and whether it qualifies for 
hedge accounting. The key criterion for hedge accounting 
is that the hedging relationship must be highly effective 
in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or cash 
flows. The Company has not yet determined when it 

will implement the Statement nor has it completed the 
complex analysis required to determine the impact on 
the financial statements. 

In October 1998, the FASB issued FAS 134, 
Accounting for Mortgage-Backed Securities Retained 
after Securitization of Mortgage Loans Held for Sale 
by a Mortgage Banking Enterprise. This Statement 
requires that after mortgage loans held for sale are 
securitized, an entity engaged in mortgage banking 
activities classify the resulting mortgage-backed securities 
or other retained interests based on its ability and intent 
to sell or hold investments. The Company implemented 
FAS 134 in the fourth quarter of 1998, and, accordingly, 
classifies its retained interests from securitizations as 
securities available for sale. The Statement did not 
have a material impact on the financial statements. 


% Change Five-year 
1998/ compound 
1995 1994 1993 1997 growth rate 

$ 5,923 $ 5,414 $ 5,160 4% 12% 
312 365 708 36 17 
3,179 2,813 2,649 13 19 
5,589 5,225: 5,192 18 15 
1,988 1,642 1,130 (22) 12 
$ 1.66 $ 140 $ 1.85 (21) (9) 
1.62 1.36 1.74 (21) (8) 
AS 383 32 14 17 

$ 24,163 $ 25,949 $ 25,530 15% 5% 
70,780 66,575 59,829 2 13 
27h 2,872 ZVI 2 1 
1,212 574 618 (5) 65 
122,200 112,674 107,170 9 14 
77,303. 72,738 75,379 8 12 
16,726 12,039 11,072 14 12 
— — — (40) — 
8,448 6,628 6,928 5 24 
9,239 7,629 7,947 5 21 


(1) Dividends declared per common share represent the dividends of the former Norwest. Dividends declared per common share for the former Wells Fargo were $5.20, 
$5.20, $5.20, $4.60, $4.00 and $2.25 for 1998, 1997, 1996, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively. 


36 FINANCIAL REVIEW 


merger of Norwest and Wells Fargo 


On November 2, 1998, the former Wells Fargo 
merged with a subsidiary of Norwest Corporation, 
and Norwest changed its name to “Wells Fargo & 
Company.” The Merger resulted in a combined diversi- 
fied financial services company with $202 billion in 
assets at December 31, 1998, the seventh largest bank 
holding company in the United States. 

As a condition to the Merger, the Company was 
required by regulatory agencies to divest stores in 
Arizona and Nevada having aggregate deposits of 
approximately $1 billion. In the fourth quarter of 1998, 
the Company entered into contracts to sell these stores. 
These sales are expected to be completed during the 
second quarter of 1999. 

In connection with the Merger, approximately $1 
billion of Merger-related expenses were recognized in the 
fourth quarter of 1998, which included approximately 
$600 million of costs related to the restructuring of 
systems and operations resulting from the Merger that 
qualified for immediate recognition. The remainder of 
the Merger-related expenses were primarily for irrevoca- 
ble commitments to the Company’s Foundation and fees 
for investment banking and other professional services 
resulting from the Merger. 

The restructuring charges include write-downs of 
approximately $100 million for premises. The remaining 
charges of approximately $500 million primarily 
represent future cash outflows, substantially comprised 
of severance-related costs and costs related to the 
disposition of leased premises. These future cash 


operating segment results 


outflows are not expected to have a significant effect 
on the Company’s liquidity, capital resources or results 
of operations. 

The restructuring charges for premises result from the 
identification of specific premises that are held for sale 
or remarketing and are expected to be removed from 
operations during 1999, pursuant to Merger plans. 
Severance-related costs result from plans to eliminate 
redundant headquarters, back office and other positions 
into 2000. 

Based on accounting rules, not all Merger-related 
expenses qualified for recognition in the fourth quarter 
of 1998. Additional Merger-related expenses will be 
expensed when incurred as systems and operations are 
combined. The Company estimates that Merger-related 
expenses will total about $1.15 billion. The Company 
originally estimated total Merger-related expenses would 
be about $950 million. The increase is due to the irrevo- 
cable commitments made to the Company’s Foundation. 
Because of inherent uncertainties associated with merging 
two large companies, additional Merger-related costs, 
including additional restructuring charges, may result as 
the integration process continues. 

The Company expects to meet its pre-Merger target 
of approximately $650 million in annual pre-tax 
cost savings not later than 36 months after Merger 
consummation. About 50% of the cost savings are 
expected to be achieved within the first two years. 


Community Banking’s net income was $1,644 
million in 1998 compared with $2,081 million in 1997, 
a decrease of 21%. Net interest income declined by 
$121 million. A significant portion of the decrease in 
net interest income is due to the run-off and sales of 
credit card receivables and a decline in the former Wells 
Fargo real estate mortgage loans. Other loan portfolios 
remained stable. The provision for loan losses decreased 
by $99 million. A significant portion of the $607 
million, or 17%, increase in noninterest income is 
due to increased fee revenue. The number of checking 
accounts grew 2% from year-end 1997 to 1998. 
Community Banking also experienced significant 
growth in assets under management. Total noninterest 
expense increased by $1,359 million from 1997 due to 
Merger expense accruals, including irrevocable commit- 


ments to the Company’s Foundation in connection with 
the Merger. Major changes in Community Banking from 
1996 to 1997 are attributed to the acquisition of First 
Interstate Bancorp (First Interstate) effective April 1, 1996. 
First Interstate results prior to April 1, 1996 are not 
included and, therefore, the year 1997 is not comparable 
to 1996. 

Wholesale Banking’s net income was $780 million 
in 1998 compared with $792 million in 1997. Net 
interest income was flat for the year-over-year period. 
The increasing competitive lending environment in 
1998 led to a decrease in the yields realized on the 
core commercial loan portfolio. In addition, interest 
recoveries were lower in 1998 compared with 1997. 
Offsetting these unfavorable conditions was an increase 
in commercial loan volume of $2 billion. Real estate and 


FINANCIAL REVIEW 37 


construction loan balances were flat from 1997 to 1998. 
The year-over-year improvement in noninterest income 
was due to a $54 million increase in fee revenue, as well 
as foreign exchange gains and acquisition, development 
and construction (ADC) income. The increase was 
primarily offset by mark-to-market adjustments of the 
high-yield trading portfolio and commercial mortgages 
originated for sale. The adjustments occurred as a result 
of the general market volatility that occurred near the 
end of the third quarter of 1998. Noninterest expense 
increased $56 million from 1997 due to a $34 million 
reduction in foreclosed asset gains and an increase 
in incentive compensation related to increased loan 
volume. Other operating expenses remained relatively 
flat. Major changes in Wholesale Banking from 1996 
to 1997 are attributed to the acquisition of First 
Interstate effective April 1, 1996. First Interstate results 
prior to April 1, 1996 are not included and, therefore, 
the year 1997 is not comparable to 1996. 

Mortgage Banking earned $217 million in 1998, 
a 44% increase over the $151 million earned in 1997, 
which was 21% over the $125 million earned in 1996. 
The increases were principally due to increases in mort- 
gage loan fundings and the growth in the servicing port- 
folio. Fundings were $109 billion in 1998, compared 
with $55 billion and $52 billion in 1997 and 1996, 
respectively. The increases in funding volume were 
attributable in part to the low mortgage interest rates in 
1998 which encouraged homeowners to refinance their 
mortgage loans. The percentage of fundings attributed 
to mortgage loan refinancings was approximately 52% 
in 1998 compared to 23% and 22% in 1997 and 1996, 
respectively. The servicing portfolio increased to $245 
billion at December 31, 1998 from $206 billion at 
December 31, 1997. The weighted average coupon of 
loans in the servicing portfolio was 7% at December 31, 
1998 compared with 8% a year earlier. Total capitalized 


earnings performance 


mortgage servicing rights amounted to $3 billion or 126 
basis points of the servicing portfolio at December 31, 
1998. Amortization of capitalized mortgage servicing 
rights was $785 million in 1998, compared with $444 
million and $301 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively. 
Higher levels of amortization reflect increased assumed 
prepayments due to a lower interest rate environment 
and increased balances of capitalized mortgage servicing 
associated with a larger servicing portfolio. Combined 
gains on sales of mortgages and servicing rights were 
$312 million in 1998, compared with $89 million and 
$70 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively. 

Norwest Financial reported a net loss of $19 
million in 1998, which included a $351 million charge 
to the provision for loan losses in the fourth quarter. 
This charge includes losses at Island Finance reflecting a 
fourth quarter review of the loan portfolio and realign- 
ment of charge-off policies in other operating units. 
Norwest Financial's earnings for 1997 decreased 9% 
from the $265 million earned in 1996. The 1997 net 
earnings include $27 million in charges related to the 
acquisition of Fidelity Acceptance Corporation, an 
automobile finance company with $1 billion in receiv- 
ables and 150 locations in 31 states and Guam. Net 
interest income rose 12% in 1998 and 9% in 1997. 
Increases in average loans reflect internal growth as well 
as acquisitions. The net interest margin decreased 37 
basis points in 1998 and 17 basis points in 1997 reflect- 
ing a change in the portfolio mix. Norwest Financial’s 
noninterest expense increased 16% in 1998 and 10% in 
1997 primarily due to higher expenses from acquisitions. 


NET INTEREST INCOME 


Net interest income is the difference between 
interest income (which includes yield-related loan 
fees) and interest expense. Net interest income on a 
taxable-equivalent basis was $9,049 million in 1998, 
compared with $8,705 million in 1997. 

Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis 
expressed as a percentage of average total earning 
assets is referred to as the net interest margin, which 
represents the average net effective yield on earning 


38 FINANCIAL REVIEW 


assets. For 1998, the net interest margin was 5.79%, 
compared with 5.86% in 1997. 

Table 4 presents the individual components of net 
interest income and net interest margin. 

The increase in net interest income for 1998 compared 
with 1997 was primarily due to an increase in earning 
assets, which includes the effects of a significantly higher 
volume of mortgage origination activity during 1998. 
This activity also served to reduce the net interest margin 
in 1998 due to the lower yields provided by mortgages 
held for sale relative to the average yield of all other 
earning assets. 


Interest income included hedging income of $93 


million in 1998, compared with $79 million in 1997. 


Interest expense included hedging income of $94 


million in 1998, compared with $81 million in 1997. 


NONINTEREST INCOME 


Table 3 shows the major components of 


noninterest income. 


TABLE 3: 


(in millions) 


Service charges on 
deposit accounts 
Trust and investment fees 
and commissions: 
Asset management and 
custody fees 
Mutual fund and 
annuity sales fees 
All other 
Total trust and 
investment fees 
and commissions 


Credit card fee revenue 
Other fees and commissions: 
ATM network fees 
Charges and fees on loans 
All other 
Total other fees 
and commissions 


Mortgage banking: 
Origination and other 
closing fees : 
Servicing fees, net of 
amortization 
Net gains (losses) on sales of 
mortgage servicing rights 
Net gains on sales 
of mortgages 
Other 
Total mortgage banking 


Insurance 

Net venture capital gains 

Net gains on securities 
available for sale 

Income from equity investments 
accounted for by the: 
Cost method 
Equity method 

Net gains (losses) from 
dispositions of operations 

Net gains on sales of loans 

All other 


Total 


NONINTEREST INCOME 


Year ended December 31, 


1998 1997 1996 


$1,357 $1,244 $1,198 


1,068 954 775 
520 448 350 
229 176 107 
290 254 209 
427 396 373 
946 826 689 
530 314 305 

19 324 318 
16 (8) 57 
296 120 13 
245 177 151 

1,106 927 844 
348 336 280 
113 191 256 


151 157 137 
47 57 24 
100 15 (95) 
61 30 22 
441 391 277 
427 $5,675 $4,769 


% Change 
1998/ 1997/ 
1997 1996 

9% 4% 

12 18 

10 44 

18 4 

12 23 

16 28 

30 64 

14 22 

8 6 

15 20 

69 3 

(94) 2 

147. 823 
38 17 
19 10 

4 20 

(41) (25) 
71 725 
(4) 15 

(18) 138 

567 a 

103 36 
13 41 

13% 19% 


The increase in service charges on deposit accounts and 
other fees and commissions reflects overall increases in 
business activity due to acquisitions and marketing efforts 
along with an increase in fees. 

The increase in trust and investment fees and commis- 
sions for 1998 was primarily due to an overall increase 
in mutual fund management fees, reflecting the overall 
growth in fund families’ net assets. The Company man- 
aged 85 mutual funds consisting of $51.4 billion of assets 
at December 31, 1998 that included 42 Stagecoach Funds 
($27.6 billion) and 43 Norwest Advantage Funds ($23.8 
billion), compared with 78 mutual funds consisting of 
$41.9 billion of assets at December 31, 1997 that 
included 36 Stagecoach Funds ($23.3 billion) and 
42 Norwest Advantage Funds ($18.6 billion). The 
Company also managed or maintained personal trust, 
employee benefit trust and agency assets of approximately 
$324.8 billion and $285.0 billion at December 31, 1998 
and 1997, respectively. 

The increase in mortgage banking revenue is attributed 
to increases in origination and other closing fees and gains 
on sales of mortgages and servicing rights, net of increased 
amortization of capitalized mortgage servicing rights, 
related to the low mortgage interest rate environment. 

The majority of the gains from disposition of opera- 
tions were related to the sale by the former Wells Fargo 
of its mortgage servicing business to GMAC Mortgage 
Corporation in the second quarter of 1998. 

At December 31, 1997, the Company had a liability 
of $48 million related to the disposition of premises and, 
to a lesser extent, severance and miscellaneous expenses 
associated with 65 stores not acquired as a result of the 
acquisition of First Interstate Bancorp or with former 
First Interstate stores that were identified in the fourth 
quarter of 1997 for closure in 1998. Of the 65 stores, 

33 stores were closed in 1998. In 1998, the Company 
evaluated the remaining 32 stores scheduled to close and 
decided to retain them, which resulted in reducing the 
liability by $18 million. The decision was made based on 
numerous factors, including the need to maintain customer 
service levels, as well as improved profitability for these 
32 stores. These developments were not anticipated or 
foreseen at the time these accruals were originally 
recorded. At December 31, 1998, there was no 
remaining liability. 


FINANCIAL REVIEW 39 


TABLE 4: AVERAGE BALANCES, YIELDS AND RATES PAID (TAXABLE-EQUIVALENT BASIS) (1)(2) 


(in millions) 1998 1997 
Average Yields/ Interest Average Yields/ Interest 
balance rates income/ balance rates income/ 

expense expense 

EARNING ASSETS 

Federal funds sold and securities purchased 

under resale agreements $ 1,652 5.58% §$ 92 $ 1,131 5.39% $ 61 

Securities available for sale (3): 

Securities of U.S. Treasury and federal agencies 4,868 5.94 287 5,078 6.16 312 
Securities of U.S. states and political subdivisions 1,528 8.50 124 1.352, 8.49 142: 

Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies 17,194 7.05 1,187 19,844 Fils 1,403 
Private collateralized mortgage obligations 2,841 6.74 190 3,024 6.81 206 
Total mortgage-backed securities 20,035 7.01 1,377 22,868 7.09 1,609 
Other securities 1,783 5.06 103 1,373 4.72 67 
Total securities available for sale 28,214 6.80 1,891 30,671 6.88 2,100 
Securities held to maturity _ — — _ _ _ 
Total securities 28,214 6.80 1,891 30,671 6.88 2,100 

Loans held for sale (3) 4,804 7.71 371 3,849 8.11 312 

Mortgages held for sale (3) 12,978 6.92 898 6,741 aoe 490 

Loans: 

Commercial 33,271 8.93 2,971 29,951 9.18 2,748 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 13,652 8.90 1,215 15,866 8.75 1,341 
Other real estate mortgage 16,257 9:37 1,523 16,205 9.58 1,552 
Real estate construction 3,601 939 338 3,298 9.92 22 
Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 9,983 9:17 903 9,880 9:39 949 
Credit card 6,012 14.96 900 6,663 14.53 968 
Other revolving credit and monthly payment 16,497 12.78 2,109 16,947 12.42 2,105 
Total consumer 32,492 12.55 3,912 33,490 12.28 4,022 
Lease financing 5,608 8.22 461 4,285 8.38 359 
Foreign 1,324 20.96 277 1,042 20.31 212 
Total loans (4)(5) 106,205 10.07 10,697 104,137 10.14 10,561 
Other 2,853 5.82 166 2,273 5.93 134 
Total earning assets $156,706 9.03 14,115 $148,802 9.19) 13,658 

FUNDING SOURCES 

Deposits: 

Interest-bearing checking $ 2,221 1.23 27 $ 3,016 1.66 50 
Market rate and other savings 52,909 2.60 1,375 51,182 2.58 1,322 
Savings certificates 27,749 §.22 1,448 28,581 S27 1,506 
Other time deposits 4,040 5.49 222 3,708 5.64 209 
Deposits in foreign offices 801 4.82 39 1,287 4.85 62 

Total interest-bearing deposits 87,720 3:55 33111 87,774 3.59 3,149 

Short-term borrowings 14,454 5.37 777 11,362 5.37 610 

Long-term debt 17,411 6.30 1,097 17,149 6.38 1,093 

Guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in Company’s 

subordinated debentures 1,010 8.06 81 1,287 7.82 101 
Total interest-bearing liabilities 120,595 4.20 5,066 117,572 4.21 4,953 
Portion of noninterest-bearing funding sources 36,111 — — 31,230 — a 
Total funding sources $156,706 3.24 5,066 $148,802 3.33 4,953 

Net interest margin and net interest income on 

a taxable-equivalent basis (6) 5.79% $ 9,049 5.86% 8,70 

NONINTEREST-EARNING ASSETS 

Cash and due from banks $ 10,669 $ 11,609 

Goodwill 7,865 8,186 

Other 13,115 13,653 

Total noninterest-earning assets $ 31,649 $ 33,448 

NONINTEREST-BEARING FUNDING SOURCES 

Deposits $ 40,922 $ 37,710 

Other liabilities 6,958 7,243 

Preferred stockholders’ equity 463 554 

Common stockholders’ equity 19,417 19,171 

Noninterest-bearing funding sources used to 

fund earning assets (36,111) (31,230) 
Net noninterest-bearing funding sources $ 31,649 $ 33,448 
TOTAL ASSETS $188,355 $182,250 


(1) The average prime rate of the Company was 8.35%, 8.44%, 8.27%, 8.83% and 7.14% for 1998, 1997, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. The average three-month 
London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) was 5.56%, 5.74%, 5.51%, 6.04% and 4.75% for the same years, respectively. 


(2) Interest rates and amounts include the effects of hedge and risk management activities associated with the respective asset and liability categories. 
(3) Yields are based on amortized cost balances. 


40 FINANCIAL REVIEW 


1995 


1996 
Average Yields/ Interest Average Yields/ 
balance rates income/ balance rates 
expense 
$ 1,596 546% $ 87 $ 645 5.83% 
3,730 5.95 221 1,604 6.60 
907 8.89 79 124 20.80 
20,199 6.98 1,410 13,897 Tell 
2,852 6.51 187 1,252 6.39 
23,051 6.92 1597 15,149 7.19 
1,567 5.03 77 750 12.06 
29,255 6.76 1,974 17,627 748 
— _— _ 7,666 5.40 
29,255 6.76 1,974 25,293 5.40 
3,560 9.22 328 2,557 8.88 
6,889 7.68 529 4,996 7.86 
27,547 9AS 2,520 173773 9.67 
155522 8.64 1,301 11,883 8.51 
15,612 9.21 1,438 11,742 9.40 
2,940 10.25 301 1,833 10.06 
8,995 911 844 7,512 8.64 
6,505 15.03 979 5,939 15.54 
16,505 12.25 2,022 10,887 13.26 
32,005 12.24 3,845 24,338 13.16 
3,347 8.15 272 2,284 8.51 
950 20.52 195 704 23.01 
97,923 10.08 9,872 70,557 10.47 
1,696 5.54 94 940 5.87 
$140,919 IAS 12,884 $104,988 9.36 
$ 6,749 1.38 93 $ 6,423 1.24 
45,049 2.68 1,207 28,622 2.78 
26,853 5.17 1,390 18,889 5.35 
3,245 S77 187 2,244 5.81 
719 4.76 34 2,381 5.86 
82,615 3.52 2,911 58,559 3.68 
10,692 5.25 562 12,682 5.88 
18,283 6.24 1,140 14,996 6.53 
82 7.81 6 — —_ 
111,672 4.14 4,619 86,237 4.50 
29,247 _ — 18,751 — 
$140,919 3.28 4,619 $104,988 3.69 
5.87% $ 8,265 5.67% 
$ 11,442 $ 5,858 
6,477 895 
17,051 5.273 
$ 28,970 $ 12,026 
$ 34,952 $ 19,070 
5,466 3,246 
968 942 
16,831 7,519 
29,247) 18,751) 
$ 28,970 $ 12,026 
$169,889 $117,014 


Interest 
income/ 
expense 


1994 
Average Yields/ Interest 
balance rates income/ 
expense 
$ 629 4.22% $ 27 
1,836 5.84 107 
123 2325: 29 
11,822 6.63 801 
1,372 6.16 88 
13,194 6.58 889 
597 13.89 ah 
15,750 6.88 1,102 
10,180 5.39 549 
25,930 6.37 1,651 
1713 7.49 128 
3,764 Tol? 271 
15,017 8.64 1,298 
13,522 777 1,022 
14,513 8.51 980 
1,553 9.00 140 
6,309 VLE wh 519 
4,771 15.14 722 
8,935 12.27 _1,096 
20,015 12.18 2,397 
1,952 8.32 162 
BP) 21.58 ___120 
64,127 9.45 6,059 
746 6.77 50 
$ 96,909 8.42 8,186 
$ 6,801 1.17 80 
31,846 252 740 
16,824 4.44 748 
1,843 5.01 93 
1,257 4.62 58 
58,571 2.93 1,719 
9,075 4.39 399 
10,948 S73 627 
78,594 3.49 7,745 
18,315 —_ — 
$ 96,909 2.82 2,745 
5.60% $5,441 
$ 5,559 
600 
3,853 
$ 10,012 
$ 17,723 
2,681 
865 
7,058 
(18,315) 
$ 10,012 
$106,921 


(4) Interest income includes loan fees, net of deferred costs, of approximately $120 million, $103 million, $86 million, $40 million and $37 million in 1998, 1997, 1996, 


1995 and 1994, respectively. 
(5) Nonaccrual loans and related income are included in their respective loan categories. 


(6) Includes taxable-equivalent adjustments that penal relate ‘q income on certain loans and securities that is exempt from federal and applicable state income taxes. 


The federal statutory tax rate was 35% for all years presented. 


FINANCIAL REVIEW 41 


NONINTEREST EXPENSE 


Table 5 shows the major components of 
noninterest expense. 


TABLE 5: NONINTEREST EXPENSE 


(in millions) Year ended December 31, % Change 
1998 1997 1996 1998/ 1997/ 
1997 1996 
Salaries and benefits $ 4,416 $3,811 $3,624 16% 5% 
Equipment 900 739 724 22 2 
Net occupancy 764 7g 688 6 5 
Goodwill 421 433 339 (3) 28 
Core deposit intangible: 
Nonqualifying (1) 217 240 227 (10) 6 
Qualifying 26 33 38~——(24)~—s(13) 
Net losses on dispositions of 
premises and equipment 325 76 45 328 69 
Operating losses 152 374 189 (59) 98 
Outside professional services 391 262 254 49 3 
Contract services 342 271 329 26 (18) 
Telecommunications 252 241 234 5 3 
Outside data processing 250 217 216 15 — 
Advertising and promotion 237 202 234 17. — (14) 
Postage 228 210 206 9 2 
Travel and entertainment 212 188 188 13 a 
Stationery and supplies 178 182 192 (2) (5) 
Insurance 132 122 90 8 36 
Security 84 87 56 (3) bY) 
All other 1,052 583 851 80 (31) 
Total 10,579 990 $8,724 18% _3% 


(1) Amortization of core deposit intangible acquired after February 1992 that is 
subtracted from stockholders’ equity in computing regulatory capital for bank 
holding companies. 


A major portion of the increase in salaries and benefits 
was due to severance and other employee-related costs 
related to the Merger. The increase was also due to an 
increase in staff levels. 

The Company’s active full-time equivalent (FTE) staff, 
including hourly employees, was 92,178 at December 31, 
1998, compared with 88,671 at December 31, 1997. 

The increase in equipment expense was primarily 
due to personal computer purchases during the fourth 
quarter, mostly related to the replacement of personal 
computers. 

The increase in net losses on dispositions of premises 
and equipment was due to Merger-related costs associated 
with the disposition of leased and owned premises. 

Goodwill and CDI amortization resulting from the 
First Interstate acquisition were $288 million and $199 
million, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 
1998, compared with $292 million and $223 million, 
respectively, for the year ended December 31, 1997. The 
core deposit intangible is amortized on an accelerated 
basis based on an estimated useful life of 15 years. The 
effect on noninterest expense from the amortization of 
the nonqualifying core deposit intangible in 1999, 2000 


42 FINANCIAL REVIEW 


and 2001 is expected to be $178 million, $162 

million and $147 million, respectively. The related effect 
on income tax expense is expected to be a benefit of $68 
million, $62 million and $56 million in 1999, 2000 and 
2001, respectively. 

The increase in outside professional services was 
primarily due to fees for investment banking and other 
professional services resulting from the Merger. 

A major portion of the increase in the “All Other” 
category was due to the accrual of $208 million of 
irrevocable commitments to the Company’s Foundation 
in connection with the Merger. 

During 1998, the former Norwest and the former 
Wells Fargo continued with their enterprise-wide project 
to prepare the Company’s systems for Year 2000 compli- 
ance. The Year 2000 issue relates to computer systems 
that use two digits rather than four to define the applica- 
ble year and whether such systems will properly process 
information when the year changes to 2000. “Systems” 
includes hardware, networks, system and application 
software, and commercial “off the shelf” software, and 
embedded technology such as properties/date impacted 
processors in automated systems such as elevators, tele- 
phone systems, security systems, vault systems, heating 
and cooling systems and others. Priority is given to 
“mission critical” systems. A system is considered “mis- 
sion critical” if it is vital to the successful continuation 
of a core business activity. 

The former Norwest’s Year 2000 readiness project 
is divided into four phases — Phase I: a comprehensive 
assessment and inventory of applicable software, system 
hardware devices, data and voice communication devices 
and embedded technology to determine Year 2000 
vulnerability and risk; Phase II: date detection on systems 
to determine which systems must be remediated and 
which systems are compliant and require testing only, 
determination of the resources and costs, and the devel- 
opment of schedules; Phase III: repair, replacement 
and/or retirement of systems that are determined not to 
be Year 2000 compliant, and planning the integration 
testing for those systems that have interfaces with other 
systems both internal and external to the Company, such 
as customers and suppliers; and Phase IV: integration 
testing on applicable systems to validate that interfaces 
are Year 2000 compliant and contingency planning. 
The former Norwest has substantially completed 
Phases I, II and III of its Year 2000 project. 

The former Wells Fargo uses a four-phase plan for 
achieving Year 2000 readiness. The Assessment Phase 
(Phase I) determines which computers, operating systems, 
applications and facilities require remediation and priori- 
tizing those remediation efforts. This has been completed 
except for the on-going assessment of new systems. The 
Renovation Phase (Phase II) corrects or replaces any non- 
compliant hardware, software or facilities. This phase 
has been substantially completed. All renovated software, 


both in-house applications and vendor software, was 
placed back into production before the Validation 

Phase (Phase III). The Validation Phase, which tests in- 
house systems, vendor software and service providers, 

is in process. During Phase IV, the Implementation 
Phase, remediated and validated code will be tested in 
interfaces with customers, business partners, government 
institutions and others. 

It is anticipated that the Company will have substan- 
tially completed the unfinished phases discussed in the 
preceding two paragraphs by June 30, 1999. The 
Company’s Year 2000 Project Office oversees the Year 
2000 efforts of the Company and all of its subsidiaries. 
Representatives from other areas of the Company, 
including the law department, audit, risk management 
and corporate communications, provide support for the 
Year 2000 project. In addition, as a financial services 
organization, the Company is under the supervision of 
federal regulatory agencies which have provided guide- 
lines and are performing ongoing monitoring of the 
Year 2000 readiness of the Company. 

The Company may be affected by the Year 2000 com- 
pliance issues of governmental agencies, businesses and 
other entities who provide data to, or receive data from, 
the Company, and by entities, such as borrowers, vendors, 
customers and business partners, whose financial condi- 
tion or operational capability is significant to the 
Company. The Company’s Year 2000 project also includes 
assessing the Year 2000 readiness of certain customers, 
borrowers, vendors, business partners, counterparties and 
governmental entities and the testing of major external 
interfaces with third parties which the Company has deter- 
mined are critical. Using a combination of surveys and 
direct communication, the Company has evaluated its 
major credit customers, assessed their Year 2000 efforts, 
and incorporated any identified Year 2000 customer risks 
into the Company’s credit risk analysis processes. In addi- 
tion to assessing the readiness of these external parties, the 
Company is developing contingency plans which will 
include plans to recover operations and alternatives to 
mitigate the effects of counterparties whose failure to 
properly address Year 2000 issues may adversely affect 
the Company’s ability to perform certain functions. 
These contingency plans are expected to be substantially 
completed by June 30, 1999. 

The Company currently estimates that its total cost for 
the Year 2000 project will approximate $315 million. 
Through December 31, 1998, the Company has incurred 
charges of $202 million related to its Year 2000 project 
of which $176 million total expenditures were incurred 
in 1998. Charges for the former Norwest include the cost 
of internal staff redeployed to the Year 2000 project, as 
well as external consulting costs and costs of accelerated 
replacement of hardware and software due to Year 2000 
issues. Charges for the former Wells Fargo include the 
cost of external consulting and costs of accelerated 


replacement of hardware and software, but do not 
include the cost of internal staff redeployed to the Year 
2000 project. The Company does not believe that the 
redeployment of internal staff for the former Wells Fargo 
will have a material impact on the financial condition 
or results of operations for the Company. 

The previous paragraphs contain a number of 
forward-looking statements. These statements reflect 
management’s best current estimates, which were based 
on numerous assumptions about future events, including 
the continued availability of certain resources, represen- 
tations received from third party service providers and 
other third parties, and additional factors. There can be 
no guarantee that these estimates, including Year 2000 
costs, will be achieved, and actual results could differ 
materially from those estimates. A number of important 
factors could cause management’s estimates and the 
impact of the Year 2000 issue to differ materially from 
what is described in the forward-looking statements 
contained in the above paragraphs. Those factors 
include, but are not limited to, uncertainties in the 
cost of hardware and software, the availability and 
cost of programmers and other systems personnel, 
inaccurate or incomplete execution of the phases, 
ineffective remediation of computer code, and whether 
the Company’s customers, vendors, competitors and 
counterparties effectively address the Year 2000 issue. 

If Year 2000 issues are not adequately addressed by 
the Company and significant third parties, the Company’s 
business, results of operations and financial position 
could be materially adversely affected. Failure of certain 
vendors to be Year 2000 compliant could result in disrup- 
tion of important services upon which the Company 
depends, including, but not limited to, such services as 
telecommunications, electrical power and data processing. 
Failure of the Company’s loan customers to properly 
prepare for the Year 2000 could also result in increases 
in problem loans and credit losses in future years. 
Notwithstanding the Company’s efforts, there can be 
no assurance that the Company or significant third 
party vendors or other significant third parties will 
adequately address their Year 2000 issues. The Company 
is continuing to assess the Year 2000 readiness of third 
parties but does not know at this time whether the failure 
of third parties to be Year 2000 compliant will have a 
material effect on the Company’s results of operations, 
liquidity and financial condition. 

The forward-looking statements made in the foregoing 
Year 2000 discussion speak only as of the date on which 
such statements are made, and the Company undertakes 
no obligation to update any forward-looking statement 
to reflect events or circumstances after the date on which 
such statement is made or to reflect the occurrence of 
unanticipated events. 


FINANCIAL REVIEW 43 


The Year 2000 disclosures contained in this Annual 
Report are designated as Year 2000 Readiness Disclosures 
related to the Year 2000 Information and Readiness 
Disclosure Act. 


EARNINGS/RATIOS EXCLUDING GOODWILL AND 
NONQUALIFYING CDI 


Table 6 reconciles reported earnings to net income 
excluding goodwill and nonqualifying core deposit 
intangible amortization (“cash” or “tangible”) for the 
year ended December 31, 1998. Table 7 presents the 


TABLE 6: EARNINGS EXCLUDING GOODWILL 
AND NONQUALIFYING CDI 


(in millions, except 


per share amounts) Year ended December 31, 1998 


Reported Amortization “Cash” 
earnings Goodwill Nonqualifying earnings 
core deposit 
intangible 
Income before income 
tax expense $3,293 $421 $217 $3,931 
Income tax expense 1,343 — 88 1,431 
Net income 1,950 421 129 2,500 
Preferred stock 
dividends 35 = _ 35 
Net income applicable 
to common stock $1,915 421 129 2,465 
Earnings per 
common share $ 1.18 26 08 §$ 1.52 
Diluted earnings per 
common share 1.17 25 .08 1.50 


balance sheet analysis 


calculation of the ROA, ROE and efficiency ratios 
excluding goodwill and nonqualifying core deposit 
intangible amortization and balances for the year ended 
December 31, 1998. These calculations were specifically 
formulated by the Company and may not be comparable 
to similarly titled measures reported by other companies. 
Also, “cash” or “tangible” earnings are not entirely 
available for use by management. See the Consolidated 
Statement of Cash Flows and Note 3 to Financial 
Statements for other information regarding funds 
available for use by management. 


TABLE 7: RATIOS EXCLUDING GOODWILL AND 
NONQUALIFYING CDI 


(in millions) Year ended December 31, 1998 
ROA: AKC-E) = 1.39% 
ROE: B((D-E) = 23.15% 
Efficiency: (F-G)/H = 64.31% 
Net income $ 2,500 (A) 
Net income applicable to common stock 2,465 (B) 
Average total assets 188,355 (C) 
Average common stockholders’ equity 19,417 (D) 
Average goodwill ($7,865) and after-tax nonqualifying 
core deposit intangible ($906) 8,771 (E) 
Noninterest expense 10,579 (F) 
Amortization expense for goodwill and nonqualifying 
core deposit intangible 638 (G) 
Net interest income plus noninterest income 15,417 (H) 


A comparison between the year-end 1998 and 1997 
balance sheets is presented below. 


SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE 


Total securities available for sale averaged $28.2 
billion in 1998, an 8% decrease from $30.7 billion 
in 1997. Total securities available for sale were $32.0 
billion at December 31, 1998, a 15% increase from 
$27.9 billion at December 31, 1997. 

The securities available for sale portfolio includes 
both debt and marketable equity securities. At December 
31, 1998, the securities available for sale portfolio had 
an unrealized net gain of $830 million, comprised of 
unrealized gross gains of $919 million and unrealized 
gross losses of $89 million. At December 31, 1997, the 


44 FINANCIAL REVIEW 


securities available for sale portfolio had an unrealized 
net gain of $740 million, comprised of unrealized 
gross gains of $787 million and unrealized gross losses 
of $47 million. The unrealized net gain or loss on 
securities available for sale is reported on an after-tax 
basis as a valuation allowance that is a component 

of cumulative other comprehensive income. At 
December 31, 1998, the valuation allowance amounted 
to an unrealized net gain of $477 million, compared 
with an unrealized net gain of $474 million at 
December 31, 1997. 

The unrealized net gain in the debt securities portion 
of the securities available for sale portfolio at December 
31, 1998 was primarily attributable to mortgage-backed 
securities, reflecting a decrease in interest rates since 
the time of purchase. The Company may decide to 


THIS FILE 


HAS NO 
CONTENT 


The Company anticipates normal influxes of nonac- 
crual loans as it further increases its lending activity as 
well as resolutions of loans in the nonaccrual portfolio. 
The performance of any individual loan can be affected 
by external factors, such as the interest rate environment 
or factors particular to a borrower such as actions taken 
by a borrower’s management. In addition, from time to 
time, the Company purchases loans from other financial 
institutions that may be classified as nonaccrual based on 
its policies. 

The Company generally identifies loans to be evaluated 
for impairment under FAS 114, Accounting by Creditors 
for Impairment of a Loan, when such loans are on 
nonaccrual or have been restructured. However, not all 
nonaccrual loans are impaired. Generally, a loan is placed 
on nonaccrual status upon becoming 90 days past due 
as to interest or principal (unless both well-secured and 
in the process of collection), when the full timely collec- 
tion of interest or principal becomes uncertain or when 
a portion of the principal balance has been charged off. 
Real estate 1-4 family loans (both first liens and junior 
liens) are placed on nonaccrual status within 120 days of 
becoming past due as to interest or principal, regardless 
of security. In contrast, under FAS 114, loans are consid- 
ered impaired when it is probable that the Company 
. will be unable to collect all amounts due according to 
the contractual terms of the loan agreement, including 
scheduled interest payments. For a loan that has been 
restructured, the contractual terms of the loan agreement 
refer to the contractual terms specified by the original 
loan agreement, not the contractual terms specified by 
the restructuring agreement. Not all impaired loans are 
necessarily placed on nonaccrual status. That is, restruc- 
tured loans performing under restructured terms beyond 
a specified performance period are classified as accruing 
but may still be deemed impaired under FAS 114. 

For loans covered under FAS 114, the Company makes 
an assessment for impairment when and while such loans 
are on nonaccrual, or the loan has been restructured. 
When a loan with unique risk characteristics has been 
identified as being impaired, the Company will measure 
the amount of impairment using discounted cash flows, 
except when the sole (remaining) source of repayment for 
the loan is the operation or liquidation of the underlying 
collateral. In such cases, the current fair value of the col- 
lateral, reduced by costs to sell, will be used in place of 
discounted cash flows. Additionally, some impaired loans 
with commitments of less than $1 million are aggregated 
for the purpose of measuring impairment using historical 
loss factors as a means of measurement. 

If the measurement of the impaired loan is less than 
the recorded investment in the loan (including accrued 
interest, net deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized 
premium or discount), an impairment is recognized 
by creating or adjusting an existing allocation of the 


46 FINANCIAL REVIEW 


allowance for loan losses. FAS 114 does not change 
the timing of charge-offs of loans to reflect the amount 
ultimately expected to be collected. 

If interest due on the book balances of all nonaccrual 
and restructured loans (including loans no longer on 
nonaccrual or restructured at year end) had been accrued 
under their original terms, $68 million of interest would 
have been recorded in 1998, compared with $26 million 
actually recorded. 

Other real estate (ORE) at December 31, 1998 
decreased to $173 million from $264 million at 
December 31, 1997. A majority of ORE at December 31, 
1998 has been in the portfolio three years or less, with 
land and agricultural properties representing a significant 
portion of the amount greater than three years old. 


LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE AND STILL 
ACCRUING 


Table 9 shows loans contractually past due 90 days or 
more as to interest or principal, but not included in the 
nonaccrual or restructured categories. All loans in this 
category are both well-secured and in the process of 
collection or are real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
loans or consumer loans that are exempt under regulatory 
rules from being classified as nonaccrual because they 
are automatically charged off after being past due for 
a prescribed period (generally, within 180 days). 
Notwithstanding, real estate 1-4 family loans (first liens 
and junior liens) are placed on nonaccrual within 120 
days of becoming past due and such nonaccrual loans 
are excluded from Table 9. 


TABLE 9: LOANS 90 DAYS OR MORE PAST DUE 
AND STILL ACCRUING 


(in millions) December 31, 
1998 1997 1996 1995 1994 
Commercial $ 9 $11 $ 69 $13 § 8 
Real estate 
1-4 family 
first mortgage 17 37 43 9 18 
Other real estate 
mortgage 41 35 78 32 52 
Real estate 
construction 6 13 10 3 1 
Consumer: 
Real estate 
1-4 family junior 
lien mortgage 32 42 23 4 4 
Credit card 133 154 140 113 70 
Other revolving 
credit and 
monthly 
payment _104 105 81 62 23 
Total consumer 69 —301 244 179 97 
Total 342 $397 $444 $236 $176 


ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES 


An analysis of the changes in the allowance for loan 
losses, including charge-offs and recoveries by loan 
category, is presented in Note 5 to Financial Statements. 
At December 31, 1998, the allowance for loan losses was 
$3,134 million, or 2.90% of total loans, compared with 
$3,062 million, or 2.88%, at December 31, 1997 and 
$3,059 million, or 2.89%, at December 31, 1996. The 
provision for loan losses totaled $1,545 million in 1998, 
$1,140 million in 1997 and $500 million in 1996. Of 
these amounts, the former Wells Fargo provided $670 
million for loan losses in 1998, $615 million in 1997 and 
$105 million in 1996. This trend of increasing provision 
expense at the former Wells Fargo followed a period 
from 1993 to 1995 during which the Company had 
reduced its provision as its loan portfolio (particularly in 
California) had made a gradual recovery in credit quality 
following the recessionary economic environment of 1991 
and 1992. Throughout this period the Company consid- 
ered its allowance for loan losses adequate in relation to 
its existing loan portfolio. The provision for loan losses 
in 1998 approximated net charge-offs, and the Company 
anticipates that it will continue to make a provision in 
1999 which is similarly close to the level of actual net 
losses. Net charge-offs in 1998 were $1,617 million, or 
1.52% of average total loans, compared with $1,305 
million, or 1.25%, in 1997 and $1,022 million, or 
1.04%, in 1996. Loan loss recoveries were $427 million 
in 1998, compared with $426 million in 1997 and $349 
million in 1996. 

The largest category of net charge-offs in 1998 
was other revolving credit and monthly payment loans, 
comprising 52% of the total net charge-offs. This product 
category includes approximately $300 million of losses 
in Island Finance reflecting a fourth quarter review 
of its loan portfolio. Results of the portfolio review 
revealed the recent deterioration of economic conditions 
in Puerto Rico. These problems were compounded by 
hurricane damage in the latter part of 1998. In 1997 and 
1996 credit card loans comprised the largest category of 
net charge-offs, accounting for approximately 40% of 
total net charge-offs. During 1998, credit card gross 
charge-offs due to bankruptcies were $214 million, or 
40%, of total credit card charge-offs, compared with 
$244 million, or 42%, and $215 million, or 44%, in 
1997 and 1996, respectively. In addition, credit card 
loans 30 to 89 days past due and still accruing totaled 
$154 million at December 31, 1998, compared with 
$200 million and $228 million at December 31, 1997 
and 1996, respectively. 

Any loan that is past due as to principal or interest 
and that is not both well-secured and in the process of 
collection is generally charged off (to the extent that 
it exceeds the fair value of any related collateral) after 
a predetermined period of time that is based on loan 
category. Additionally, loans are charged off when 


classified as a loss by either internal loan examiners 
or regulatory examiners. 

The Company considers the allowance for loan losses 
of $3,134 million adequate to cover losses inherent in 
loans, commitments to extend credit and standby letters 
of credit at December 31, 1998. However, no assurance 
can be given that the Company will not, in any particu- 
lar period, sustain loan losses that are sizable in relation 
to the amount reserved, or that subsequent evaluations 
of the loan portfolio, in light of the factors then prevail- 
ing, including economic conditions and the Company’s 
ongoing examination process and that of its regulators, 
will not require significant increases in the allowance 
for loan losses. For discussion of the process by which 
the Company determines the adequacy of the allowance 
for loan losses, see Note 5 to Financial Statements. 


DEPOSITS 


Comparative detail of average deposit balances is 
presented in Table 4. Average core deposits increased 
3% in 1998 compared with 1997. Average core deposits 
funded 66% of the Company’s average total assets in 
1998 and 1997. 

Year-end deposit balances are presented in Table 10. 


TABLE 10: DEPOSITS 


(in millions) December 31, % 
1998 1997 Change 
Noninterest-bearing $ 46,732 $ 40,206 16% 
Interest-bearing checking 2,402 2,759 (13) 
Market rate and 
other savings 55,658 51,038 9 
Savings certificates 27,497 28,324 (3) 
Core deposits 132,289 122,327 8 
Other time deposits 3,753 3.927 (4) 
Deposits in foreign offices 746 1,402 (47) 
Total deposits $136,788 $127,656 208 


MARKET RISKS 


Market risk is the exposure to loss resulting from 
changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, 
commodity prices and equity prices. The primary market 
risk to which the Company is exposed is interest rate 
risk. The majority of the Company’s interest rate risk 
arises from the instruments, positions and transactions 
entered into for purposes other than trading. They 
include loans, securities available for sale, deposit 
liabilities, short-term borrowings, long-term debt and 
derivative financial instruments used for asset/liability 
management. Interest rate risk occurs when assets and 
liabilities reprice at different times as interest rates 
change. For example, if fixed-rate assets are funded with 
floating-rate debt, the spread between asset and liability 


FINANCIAL REVIEW 47 


rates will decline or turn negative if rates increase. The 
Company refers to this type of risk as “term structure 
risk.” There is, however, another source of interest rate 
risk which results from changing spreads between asset 
and liability rates. The Company calls this type of risk 
“basis risk;” it is a significant source of interest rate risk 
for the Company and is more difficult to quantify and 
manage than term structure risk. Two primary compo- 
nents of basis risk for the Company are the spread 
between Prime-based loans and market rate account 
(MRA) savings deposits and the rate paid on savings 
and interest-bearing checking accounts as compared 

to LIBOR-based loans. 

Interest rate risk is managed within an overall 
asset/liability framework for the Company. The principal 
objectives of asset/liability management are to manage 
the sensitivity of net interest spreads and net income 
to potential changes in interest rates and to enhance 
profitability in ways that promise sufficient reward for 
understood and controlled risk. Funding positions are 
kept within predetermined limits designed to ensure that 
risk-taking is not excessive and that liquidity is properly 
managed. The Company employs a sensitivity analysis 
in the form of a net interest income simulation to help 
characterize the market risk arising from changes in 
interest rates in the other-than-trading portfolio. 

The Company’s net interest income simulation includes 
all other-than-trading financial assets, financial liabilities, 
derivative financial instruments and leases where the 
Company is the lessor. It captures the dynamic nature 
of the balance sheet by anticipating probable balance 
sheet and off-balance sheet strategies and volumes under 
different interest rate scenarios over the course of a 
one-year period. This simulation measures both the 
term structure risk and the basis risk in the Company’s 
positions. The simulation also captures the option 
characteristics of products, such as caps and floors on 
floating rate loans, the right to prepay mortgage loans 
without penalty and the ability of customers to withdraw 
deposits on demand. These options are modeled directly 
in the simulation either through the use of option pricing 
models, in the case of caps and floors on loans, or 
through statistical analysis of historical customer 
behavior, in the case of mortgage loan prepayments 
or non-maturity deposits. 

The simulation model is used to measure the impact 
on after-tax net income, relative to a base case scenario, 
of rates increasing or decreasing 100 basis points over 
the next 12 months. The simulation showing the largest 
drop in net income relative to the base case scenario over 
the next twelve months is a 100 basis point increase in 
rates which will result in a decrease in net income of $26 
million. In the simulation which was run at December 
31, 1997, the largest drop in net income relative to the 
base case scenario over the next twelve months was a 
100 basis point decrease in rates which would result in a 
decrease in net income of $17 million. 


48 FINANCIAL REVIEW 


The Company uses interest rate derivative financial 
instruments as an asset/liability management tool to 
hedge mismatches in interest rate exposures indicated 
by the net interest income simulation described above. 
They are used to reduce the Company’s exposure to 
interest rate fluctuations and provide more stable 
spreads between loan yields and the rates on their 
funding sources. For example, the Company uses interest 
rate futures to shorten the rate maturity of MRA savings 
deposits to better match the maturity of Prime-based 
loans. The Company also purchases interest rate floors 
to protect against the loss in interest income on LIBOR- 
based loans during a declining interest rate environment. 
Additionally, receive-fixed rate swaps are used to convert 
floating-rate loans into fixed rates to better match the 
liabilities that fund the loans. The Company also uses 
derivatives including floors, futures contracts and options 
on futures contracts to hedge the Company’s mortgage 
servicing rights. 

Looking toward managing interest rate risk in 1999, 
the Company will continue to face term structure risk 
and basis risk and may be confronted with several risk 
scenarios. If interest rates rise, net income may actually 
increase if deposit rates lag increases in market rates 
(e.g., Prime, LIBOR). The Company could, however, 
experience pressure on net income in this scenario if 
deposits are aggressively repriced as market rates increase. 

A declining interest rate environment might result in 
a decrease in loan rates, while deposit rates remain rela- 
tively stable, as they did between 1994 and 1996. This 
rate scenario could also create significant risk to net 
income. The Company has partially hedged against this 
risk with interest rate floors, receive-fixed rate swap 
contracts and fixed-rate mortgage backed securities. As 
mentioned above, the Company has also partially hedged 
the mortgage servicing rights against this rate scenario 
using primarily floors, futures contracts and options on 
futures contracts. Based on its current and projected 
balance sheet, the Company does not expect that a change 
in interest rates would affect its liquidity position. 

The Company considers the fair values and the 
potential near term losses to future earnings related to 
its customer accommodation derivative financial instru- 
ments to be immaterial. 


DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 


The Company uses interest rate derivative financial 
instruments as asset/liability management tools to hedge 
the Company’s exposure to interest rate fluctuations. 
The Company also offers contracts to its customers, but 
offsets such contracts by purchasing other financial 
contracts or uses the contracts for asset/liability man- 
agement. For further discussion of derivative financial 
instruments, refer to Note 23 to Financial Statements. 


LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL MANAGEMENT 


The Company manages its liquidity and capital at 
both the parent and subsidiary levels. 

In addition to the immediately liquid resources of 
cash and due from banks and federal funds sold and 
securities purchased under resale agreements, asset 
liquidity is provided by the Company’s securities 
available for sale portfolio. The weighted average 
expected remaining maturity of the debt securities 
within this portfolio was 4 years and 9 months at 
December 31, 1998. Of the $31.2 billion debt securities 
in this portfolio at December 31, 1998, $8.2 billion, or 
26%, is expected to mature or be prepaid in 1999 and 
an additional $4.6 billion, or 16%, is expected to mature 
or be prepaid in 2000. Asset liquidity is further enhanced 
by the Company’s ability to securitize assets such as 
mortgage loans. 

Core deposits have historically provided the Company 
with a sizeable source of relatively stable and low-cost 
funds. The Company’s average core deposits and 
stockholders’ equity funded 76% and 77% of its 
average total assets in 1998 and 1997, respectively. 

The remaining funding of average total assets was 
mostly provided by long-term debt, deposits in foreign 
offices, short-term borrowings (federal funds purchased 
and securities sold under repurchase agreements, com- 
mercial paper and other short-term borrowings) and 
trust preferred securities. Short-term borrowings aver- 
aged $14.5 billion and $11.4 billion in 1998 and 1997, 
respectively. Long-term debt averaged $17.4 billion 
and $17.1 billion in 1998 and 1997, respectively. Trust 
preferred securities averaged $1.0 billion and $1.3 billion 
in 1998 and 1997, respectively. 

Liquidity for the Parent is provided by dividend and 
interest income from its subsidiaries, potential 
disposition of readily marketable assets and through 
its ability to raise funds in a variety of domestic and 
international money and capital markets. In 1996, the 


comparison of 1997 to 1996 


Company filed a universal registration statement with 
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) that 
allows for the issuance of $5 billion of domestic debt 
and equity securities, excluding common stock. 

In 1996, the Parent established a $2 billion Euro 
Medium-Term Note program (Euro MTN). The 
proceeds from the sale of any securities are expected 
to be used for general corporate purposes. As of 
December 31, 1998, the Company had issued $1.7 
billion of domestic securities under the universal 
registration statement and $300 million under the 
Euro MTN program. 

To accommodate future growth and current business 
needs, the Company has a capital expenditure program. 
Capital expenditures for 1999 are estimated at about 
$470 million for equipment for stores, relocation and 
remodeling of Company facilities and routine replace- 
ment of furniture and equipment. The Company will 
fund these expenditures from various sources, including 
retained earnings of the Company and borrowings of 
various maturities. 

The Company and each of the subsidiary banks are 
subject to various regulatory capital adequacy require- 
ments administered by the Federal Reserve Board and 
the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. RBC 
guidelines establish a risk-adjusted ratio relating capital 
to different categories of assets and off-balance sheet 
exposures. (See Note 22 to Financial Statements for 
additional information.) 

Since 1986, the Company has repurchased common 
stock in the open market in a systematic pattern to 
meet the common stock issuance requirements of the 
Company’s benefit plans and other common stock 
issuance requirements, including acquisitions accounted 
for as purchases. As of December 31, 1998, the total 
common stock purchase authority was approximately 
3.1 million shares. In January of 1999, the Board of 
Directors authorized the repurchase of up to 8 million 
additional shares of the Company’s outstanding 
common stock. 


On April 1, 1996, the Company completed its 
acquisition of First Interstate, which was accounted for 
as a purchase business combination. As a result, the 
financial information presented in this Annual Report 
reflects the effects of the acquisition subsequent to the 
consummation date (i.e., the year 1997 reflects twelve 
months of combined operations, compared with nine 
months for the year 1996). Since the Company’s results 
of operations subsequent to April 1, 1996 reflect 
amounts recognized from the combined operations, 
they cannot be divided between or attributed directly 
to either of the two former entities nor can they be 
directly compared with prior periods. 


Net interest income increased $426 million in 1997 
compared to 1996. The increase in net interest income 
was due to an increase in earning assets. 

Net income in 1997 was $2,499 million, compared 
with $2,228 million in 1996, an increase of 12%. 
Diluted earnings per common share were $1.48 in 1997, 
compared with $1.36 in 1996, an increase of 9%. 
Return on average assets (ROA) was 1.37% and return 
on average common equity (ROE) was 12.81% in 
1997, compared with 1.31% and 12.73%, respectively, 
in 1996. 


FINANCIAL REVIEW 49 


Diluted earnings before the amortization of goodwill 
and nonqualifying core deposit intangible (CDI) (“cash” 
or “tangible” earnings) were $1.83 per share in 1997, 
compared with $1.67 in 1996. On the same basis, ROA 
was 1.78% and ROE was 30.49% in 1997, compared 
with 1.66% and 28.55%, respectively, in 1996. 

Net interest income on a taxable-equivalent basis 
was $8,705 million in 1997, compared with $8,265 
million in 1996. The Company’s net interest margin 
was 5.86% for 1997, compared with 5.87% in 1996. 

Noninterest income in 1997 was $5,675 million, com- 
pared with $4,769 million in 1996, an increase of 19%. 
The increases in noninterest income were due to increas- 
es in fee-based revenues, including trust and investment 
fees, credit card fees, other fees and commissions and 
increased earnings for Mortgage Banking. The increases 
for Mortgage Banking were principally due to increases 
in mortgage loan funding and the servicing portfolio. 
These increases were partially offset by higher levels of 
amortization in 1997 compared to 1996, which reflected 
increased balances of capitalized servicing associated 
with a larger servicing portfolio and increased assumed 
prepayments due to a lower interest rate environment. 

Noninterest expense in 1997 was $8,990 million, 
compared with $8,724 million in 1996. The largest of 
the increases were in salaries and operating losses. The 


additional information 


increase in salaries was due to increased staff levels 
due to acquisitions. The increase in operating losses 
was predominantly a result of back-office problems 
which arose subsequent to certain systems conversions 
and other changes to operating processes that were a 
part of the First Interstate integration. 

There was a provision for loan losses of $1,140 
million in 1997, compared with $500 million in 1996. 
Of these amounts, the former Wells Fargo provided 
$615 million for loan losses in 1997 and $105 million in 
1996. Throughout this period the Company considered 
its allowance for loan losses adequate in relation to its 
existing loan portfolio, which had gradually improved 
in credit quality following the economic environment of 
1991 and 1992. Net charge-offs in 1997 were $1,305 
million, or 1.25% of average total loans, compared with 
$1,022 million, or 1.04%, in 1996. The allowance for 
loan losses was 2.88% of total loans at December 31, 
1997, compared with 2.89% at December 31, 1996. 

Total nonaccrual and restructured loans were $715 
million, or .7% of total loans, at December 31, 1997, 
compared with $881 million, or .8% of total loans, 
at December 31, 1996. ORE was $264 million at 
December 31, 1997, compared with $308 million 
at December 31, 1996. 


Common stock of the Company is traded on the New 
York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange. 
The high, low and end-of-period annual and quarterly 
closing prices of the Company’s common stock as 


reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite 
Transaction Reporting System are presented in the graphs. 
The number of holders of record of the Company’s 
common stock was 88,275 as of January 31, 1999. 


PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK-ANNUAL ($) 


$50 
43.88 
40 39.50 
30 
23.44 27.50 
20 21:63 
15.25 I Indicates closing price at end of year 
10 
1996 1997 1998 


50 FINANCIAL REVIEW 


PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK-QUARTERLY ($) 


$50 
43.88 43.75 
40.88 
40 39,50 39.75 
32.16 3475 34.00 
30 29,63 + 
30.19 
26.63 29.75 
| 28.13 27.50 
20 - 5763 --22:19 
BB indicates closing price at end of quarter 
10 
1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q 
1997 1998 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME 


(in millions, except per share amounts) 


INTEREST INCOME 

Securities available for sale 

Mortgages held for sale 

Loans held for sale 

Loans 

Other interest income 
Total interest income 


INTEREST EXPENSE 
Deposits 

Short-term borrowings 
Long-term debt 


Guaranteed preferred beneficial interests 
in Company’s subordinated debentures 


Total interest expense 


NET INTEREST INCOME 
Provision for loan losses 
Net interest income after provision for loan losses 


NONINTEREST INCOME 
Service charges on deposit accounts 
Trust and investment fees and commissions 
Credit card fee revenue 
Other fees and commissions 
Mortgage banking 
Insurance 
Net venture capital gains 
Net gains on securities available for sale 
Other 
Total noninterest income 


NONINTEREST EXPENSE 
Salaries and benefits 
Equipment 
Net occupancy 
Goodwill 
Core deposit intangible 
Net losses on dispositions of premises and equipment 
Operating losses 
Other 
Total noninterest expense 


INCOME BEFORE INCOME TAX EXPENSE 
Income tax expense 


NET INCOME 

NET INCOME APPLICABLE TO COMMON STOCK 
EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE 

DILUTED EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE 
DIVIDENDS DECLARED PER COMMON SHARE 
Average common shares outstanding 


Diluted average common shares outstanding 


Year ended December 31, 
1997 1996 

$ 2,063 $ 1,950 
490 529 

312 328 
10,539 9,854 
198 180 
13,602 12,841 
3,150 2,911 
610 562 
1,093 1,140 
101 6 
4,954 4,619 
8,648 8,222 

= 1,140 500 
7,508 7,722. 
1,244 1,198 
954 WA) 

448 350 

826 689 

927 844 

336 280 

191 256 

99 12 

650 365 
5,675 4,769 
3,811 3,624 
739 724 

719 688 

433 339 

273 265 

76 45 

374 189 
2,565 2,850 
__ 8,990 8,724 
4,193 3,767 
1,694 1,539 
2,499 $ 2,228 

$ 2,456 $ 2,143 
$_1.50 $_138 
$ 1.48 $ 1.36 
$615 $ 525 
1,634.6 1,553.3 
1,657.8 1,570.5 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 51 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 


(in millions, except shares) 


ASSETS 
Cash and due from banks 


Federal funds sold and securities 
purchased under resale agreements 


Securities available for sale 
Mortgages held for sale 
Loans held for sale 


Loans 
Allowance for loan losses 


Net loans 


Mortgage servicing rights 
Premises and equipment, net 

Core deposit intangible 

Goodwill 

Interest receivable and other assets 


Total assets 


LIABILITIES 
Noninterest-bearing deposits 
Interest-bearing deposits 

Total deposits 
Short-term borrowings 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 
Long-term debt 


Guaranteed preferred beneficial interests 
in Company’s subordinated debentures 


STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 
Preferred stock 
Unearned ESOP shares 

Total preferred stock 


Common stock-$1% par value, authorized 4,000,000,000 shares; 
issued 1,661,392,590 shares and 1,630,640,939 shares 


Additional paid-in capital 

Retained earnings 

Cumulative other comprehensive income 

Notes receivable from ESOP 

Treasury stock — 17,334,787 shares and 10,493,685 shares 


Total stockholders’ equity 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 


52 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


1998 


$ 12,731 


1,517 
31,997 
19,770 

5,322 


107,994 
3,134 


104,860 


3,080 
3,130 
1,510 
7,664 
10,894 


$202,475 


$ 46,732 
20,056 
136,788 
15,897 
8,537 
19,709 


785 


547 
—__(84} 
463 


2,769 
8,673 
9,045 
463 
(3) 
(651) 
20,759 


$202,475 


December 31, 


1997 


$ 13,081 


1,049 
27,872 
9,706 
4,494 


106,311 
3,062 
103,249 


3,048 
3,311 
1,737 
8,062 
10,076 
$185,685 


$ 40,206 
87,450 
127,656 
13,381 
6,236 
17,335 


1,299 


543 


(80) 
463 


2,718 
8,126 
8,292 

464 
(10) 
——_(275) 
19,778 
185,685 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 


(in millions, except shares) Notes Cumulative Total 
Unearned Additional receivable other stock- 
Number Preferred ESOP Common paid-in Retained from Treas comprehensive holders’ 
of shares stock shares stock capital — earnings ESOP stoc! income equity 
BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 1995 $830 $ (39) $1,381 $ 1,321 $5,542 $(13) —- $ (126) $343 $ 9,239 
Comprehensive income 
Net income-1996 2,228 2,228 
Other comprehensive income, 
net of tax: 
Translation adjustments (1) (1) 


Unrealized gains (losses) on securities 
pee at for sale arising 
during the year (19) (19) 
Reclassification adjustment for (gains) 
losses on securities available for 


sale included in net income (7) (7) 
Total comprehensive income 2,201 
Common stock issued 15,490,268 13 164 (71) 116 222 
Preferred stock issued for acquisitions 1,750,000 350 10 360 
Common stock issued for acquisitions 560,380,462 895 10,580 72 (2) 99 11,644 
Preferred stock issued, net of issuance costs 4,000,000 200 (3) 197 
Preferred stock repurchased 1,127,125 (552) (552) 
Common stock repurchased 101,936,842 (140) (2,018) (355) (2,513) 
Preferred stock issued to ESOP 59,000 59 (61) 2 = 
Preferred stock released to ESOP 39 (1) 38 
Preferred stock (37,777) converted 
to common shares 1,970,310 (37) 4 33 — 
Preferred stock dividends (85) (85) 
Common stock dividends (815) (815) 
Fair value adjustment related to 
acquiree’s options 111 111 
Cash payments received on notes 
receivable from ESOP _4 4 
Net change _20 (22) 768 8.849 _1,329 =y 107) (27) 10,812 
BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 1996 ~850 (61) 2,149 10.170  _6,871 (11) (233) 316 20,051 
Comprehensive income 
Net income-1997 2,499 2,499 
Other comprehensive income, 
net of tax: 
Translation adjustments 1 1 


Unrealized gains (losses) on securities 
ont for sale arising 
during the year 206 206 
Reclassification adjustment for (gains) 
losses on securities available for 


sale included in net income (59) (59) 
Total comprehensive income 2,647 
Common stock issued 18,793,327 10 155 (151) 282 296 
Common stock issued for acquisitions 23,835,535 21 20 41 131 213 
Preferred stock repurchased 1,100,000 (325) (325) 
Common stock repurchased 74,627,681 (97) (1,591) (483) (2,171) 
Preferred stock issued to ESOP 51,700 52 (54) 2 _— 
Preferred stock released to ESOP 35 (1) 34 
Preferred stock (34,074) converted 
to common shares 1,212,871 (34) 6 28 _ 
Preferred stock dividends (43) (43) 
Common stock dividends (925) (925) 
Cash payments received on notes 
receivable from ESOP il 1 
Stock split = 635 (635) _ = 
Net change (307) (19) 569 (2,044) 1,421 a! 42) 148 273) 
BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 1997 343 (80) 2,718 8.126 8,292 _(10) 275) 464 _ 19,778 
Comprehensive income 
Net income-1998 1,950 1,950 
Other comprehensive income, 
net of tax: 
Translation adjustments (4) (4) 


Unrealized gains (losses) on securities 
available for sale arising 
during the year 104 104 
Reclassification adjustment for (gains) 
losses on securities available for 


sale included in net income (101) (101) 

Total comprehensive income 1,949 
Common stock issued 39,048,384 49 910 (191) 319 1,087 
Common stock issued for acquisitions 16,743,233 24 38 11 84 157 
Common stock repurchased 32,676,277 (22) (407) (741) (1,170) 
Preferred stock issued to ESOP 35 (37) Z — 
Preferred stock released to ESOP 33 (1) 32 
Preferred stock (31,043) converted 

to common shares 799,216 (31) 3 28 — 
Preferred stock dividends (35) (35) 
Common stock dividends (982) (982) 
Cash payments received on notes 

receivable from ESOP 2 7 5 
Rabbi trust asset classified as treasury stock ae (66) (66) 
Net change 4 (4) 51 547 753 a; (376) 1) 981 
BALANCE DECEMBER 31, 1998 $547 $ (84) $2,769 $ 8,673 9,045 $ (3)  $ (651) 4 $20,759 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 53 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 


(in millions) 


Cash flows from operating activities: 
Net income 


Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: 


Provision for loan losses 

Depreciation and amortization 

Securities available for sale gains 

Gains on sales of loans 

(Gains) losses from disposition of operations 
Release of preferred shares to ESOP 

Net (increase) decrease in trading assets 

Deferred income tax expense (benefit) 

Net (increase) decrease in accrued interest receivable 
Net (decrease) increase in accrued interest payable 
Originations of mortgages held for sale 

Proceeds from sales of mortgages held for sale 
Net (increase) decrease in loans held for sale 
Other, net 


Net cash provided (used) by operating activities 


Cash flows from investing activities: 
Securities available for sale: 
Proceeds from sales 
Proceeds from prepayments and maturities 
Purchases 
Net cash (paid for) acquired from acquisitions 
Net (increase) decrease in banking subsidiaries’ loans 
resulting from originations and collections 
Proceeds from sales (including participations) 
of banking subsidiaries’ loans 
Purchases (including participations) of banking subsidiaries’ loans 
Principal collected on nonbank subsidiaries’ loans 
Nonbank subsidiaries’ loans originated 
Proceeds from (cash paid for) disposition of operations 
Proceeds from sales of other real estate (ORE) 
Net (increase) decrease in federal funds sold and securities purchased 
under resale agreements 
Other, net 


Net cash provided (used) by investing activities 


Cash flows front financing activities: 
Net increase (decrease) in deposits 
Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings 
Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 
Repayment of long-term debt 
Proceeds from issuance of guaranteed preferred beneficial 
interests in Company’s subordinated debentures 
Proceeds from issuance of preferred stock 
Proceeds from issuance of common stock 
Repurchases of preferred stock 
Repurchases of common stock 
Net decrease in notes receivable from ESOP 
Payment of cash dividends on preferred and common stock 
Other, net 


Net cash provided (used) by financing activities 

Net change in cash and due from banks 
Cash and due from banks at beginning of year 
Cash and due from banks at end of year 


Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information: 
Cash paid during the year for: 
Interest 
Income taxes 
Noncash investing and financing activities: 
Transfers from loans to ORE 


Year ended December 31, 


11,073 
10,354 
(24,650) 

(286) 


(1,383) 


1,648 
(135) 
7,788 

(8,962) 
484 
279 


(468) 
2,776) 
(7,034) 


6,749 

2,414 

7,970 
(5,642) 


1,087 
(1,170) 

9 

(1,017) 
11444 
11,844 
(350) 
13,081 

$ 12,731 


$ 5,074 
$ 1,289 


$ 223 


1997 1996 

$ 2,499 $ 2,228 
1,140 500 
1,734 1,458 
(99) (12) 
(30) (22) 
(15) 95 

34 38 
(711) (440) 
173 467 

96 (75) 

43 37 
(56,297) (53,088) 
53,252 55,920 
(846) 673 
978 (3,634) 
1,951 45145. 
9,798 5,905 
6,998 7,853 
(13,140) (10,100) 
(67) (561 
843 4,053 
437 364 
(314) (133) 
8,456 5,503 
(8,748) (6,950) 
16 6 

278 200 
415 1,385 
(320) (929) 
4,652 10,718 
(7,273) (2,198) 
5838 (1,970) 
4,003 6,403 
(5,394) (6,293) 
149 1,150 

= 197 

238 199 
(325) (552) 
(2,171) (2,513) 
1 4 

(968) (900) 
(1,213) 508 
(10,115) (5,965) 
(3,512) 8,898 
16,593 7,695 
$13,081 $16,593 
$ 4,911 $ 4,582 
$ 1,238 $ "684 
$ 162 $ 192 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of these statements. 


54 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Notes to Financial Statements 


Note MH Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 


Wells Fargo & Company (Parent) is a bank holding 
company. Wells Fargo & Company and Subsidiaries 
(Company) is a diversified financial services company 
providing banking, mortgage and consumer finance 
through about 6,000 stores and other distribution 
channels throughout North America, including all 50 
states and elsewhere internationally. 

The accounting and reporting policies of the Company 
conform with generally accepted accounting principles 
(GAAP) and prevailing practices within the financial 
services industry. The preparation of financial statements 
in conformity with GAAP requires management to 
make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported 
amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the 
financial statements and income and expenses during 
the reporting period. Actual results could differ from 
those estimates. 

On November 2, 1998, Norwest Corporation changed 
its name to “Wells Fargo & Company” upon the merger 
(the Merger) of the former Wells Fargo & Company 
(the former Wells Fargo) into a wholly-owned subsidiary 
of Norwest Corporation. The Merger was accounted 
for as a pooling of interests and, accordingly, the infor- 
mation included in the financial statements presents 
the combined results as if the Merger had been in 
effect for all periods presented. Certain amounts in 
the financial statements for prior years have been 
reclassified to conform with the current financial 
statement presentation. The following is a description 
of the significant accounting policies of the Company. 


CONSOLIDATION 


The consolidated financial statements of the Company 
include the accounts of the Parent, and its majority-owned 
subsidiaries, which are consolidated on a line-by-line 
basis. Significant intercompany accounts and transactions 
are eliminated in consolidation. Other subsidiaries and 
affiliates in which there is at least 20% ownership are 
generally accounted for by the equity method; those in 
which there is less than 20% ownership are generally car- 
ried at cost. Investments that are accounted for by either 
the equity or cost method are included in other assets. 


SECURITIES 


Securities are accounted for according to their purpose 
and holding period. 

Securities available for sale Debt securities that 
may not be held until maturity and marketable equity 
securities are classified as securities available for sale and 
are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and 
losses, after applicable taxes, reported as a component of 
cumulative other comprehensive income. The estimated 
fair value of a security is determined based on current 
quotations, where available. Where current quotations 
are not available, the estimated fair value is determined 
based primarily on the present value of future cash flows, 
adjusted for the quality rating of the securities, prepay- 
ment assumptions and other factors. Declines in the 
value of debt securities and marketable equity securities 
that are considered other than temporary are recorded in 
noninterest income as a loss on securities available for 
sale. Realized gains and losses are recorded in noninterest 
income using the identified certificate method. For 
certain debt securities (for example, Government 
National Mortgage Association securities), the Company 
anticipates prepayments of principal in the calculation of 
the effective yield. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 55 


Trading securities Securities acquired for short-term 
appreciation or other trading purposes are recorded in a 
trading portfolio and are carried at fair value, with unre- 
alized gains and losses recorded in noninterest income. 

Nonmarketable equity securities Nonmarketable 
equity securities include the venture capital subsidiaries’ 
equity securities that are not publicly traded and securi- 
ties acquired for various purposes, such as troubled 
debt restructurings and as a regulatory requirement (for 
example, Federal Reserve Bank stock). These securities 
are accounted for at cost. The asset value is reduced 
when declines in value are considered to be other 
than temporary and the estimated loss is recorded in 
noninterest income as a loss from equity investments 
along with income recognized on these assets. 


MORTGAGES HELD FOR SALE 


Mortgages held for sale are stated at the lower of 
aggregate cost or market value. The determination of 
market value includes consideration of all open positions, 
outstanding commitments from investors, related fees 
paid and related hedging gains and losses. Gains and 
losses on sales of mortgages are recognized at settlement 
dates and are determined by the difference between 
sales proceeds and the carrying value of the mortgages. 
Gains and losses are recorded in noninterest income. 


LOANS HELD FOR SALE 


Loans held for sale include student loans which are 
classified as held for sale because the Company does not 
intend to hold these loans until maturity or sales of the 
loans are pending. Such loans are carried at the lower 
of aggregate cost or market value. Gains and losses are 
recorded in noninterest income, based on the difference 
between sales proceeds and carrying value. 


LOANS 


Loans are reported at the principal amount outstand- 
ing, net of unearned income. Unearned income, which 
includes deferred fees net of deferred direct incremental 
loan origination costs, is amortized to interest income 
generally over the contractual life of the loan using an 
interest method or the straight-line method if it is not 
materially different. 


56 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Nonaccrual loans Generally, loans are placed on 
nonaccrual status upon becoming 90 days past due as 
to interest or principal (unless both well-secured and in 
the process of collection), when the full timely collection 
of interest or principal becomes uncertain or when a 
portion of the principal balance has been charged off. 
Real estate 1-4 family loans (both first liens and junior 
liens) are placed on nonaccrual status within 120 days 
of becoming past due as to interest or principal, regard- 
less of security. Generally, consumer loans not secured 
by real estate are placed on nonaccrual status only when 
a portion of the principal has been charged off. Such 
loans are entirely charged off when deemed uncollectible 
or when they reach a predetermined number of days 
past due depending upon loan product, country, terms 
and other factors. 

When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, the 
accrued and unpaid interest receivable is reversed and the 
loan is accounted for on the cash or cost recovery method 
thereafter, until qualifying for return to accrual status. 
Generally, a loan may be returned to accrual status when 
all delinquent interest and principal become current in 
accordance with the terms of the loan agreement or 
when the loan is both well-secured and in the process 
of collection and collectibility is no longer doubtful. 

Impaired loans Loans, other than those included 
in large groups of smaller-balance homogeneous loans, 
are considered impaired when, based on current informa- 
tion and events, it is probable that the Company will 
be unable to collect all amounts due according to the 
contractual terms of the loan agreement, including 
scheduled interest payments. For a loan that has been 
restructured, the contractual terms of the loan agreement 
refer to the contractual terms specified by the original 
loan agreement, not the contractual terms specified by 
the restructuring agreement. 

This assessment for impairment occurs when and 
while such loans are on nonaccrual, or the loan has been 
restructured. When a loan with unique risk characteristics 
has been identified as being impaired, the amount of 
impairment will be measured by the Company using 
discounted cash flows, except when it is determined 
that the sole (remaining) source of repayment for the 
loan is the operation or liquidation of the underlying 
collateral. In such cases, the current fair value of the 
collateral, reduced by costs to sell, will be used in place 
of discounted cash flows. Additionally, some impaired 
loans with commitments of less than $1 million are 
aggregated for the purpose of measuring impairment 
using historical loss factors as a means of measurement. 


If the measurement of the impaired loan is less than 
the recorded investment in the loan (including accrued 
interest, net deferred loan fees or costs and unamortized 
premium or discount), an impairment is recognized by 
creating or adjusting an existing allocation of the 
allowance for loan losses. 

Restructured loans In cases where a borrower 
experiences financial difficulties and the Company makes 
certain concessionary modifications to contractual terms, 
the loan is classified as a restructured (accruing) loan. 
Loans restructured at a rate equal to or greater than 
that of a new loan with comparable risk at the time 
the contract is modified may be excluded from the 
impairment assessment and may cease to be considered 
impaired loans in the calendar years subsequent to 
the restructuring if they are not impaired based on 
the modified terms. 

Generally, a nonaccrual loan that is restructured 
remains on nonaccrual for a period of six months to 
demonstrate that the borrower can meet the restructured 
terms. However, performance prior to the restructuring, 
or significant events that coincide with the restructuring, 
are included in assessing whether the borrower can meet 
the new terms and may result in the loan being returned 
to accrual at the time of restructuring or after a shorter 
performance period. If the borrower’s ability to meet the 
revised payment schedule is uncertain, the loan remains 
classified as a nonaccrual loan. 

Allowance for loan losses The allowance for 
loan losses is a valuation allowance for probable losses 
inherent in the portfolio as of the balance sheet date. 
The Company’s determination of the level of the 
allowance for loan losses rests upon various judgments 
and assumptions, including general economic conditions, 
loan portfolio composition, prior loan loss experience, 
evaluation of credit risk related to certain individual 
borrowers and the Company’s ongoing examination 
process and that of its regulators. The Company consid- 
ers the allowance for loan losses adequate to cover losses 
inherent in loans, loan commitments and standby letters 
of credit. 


TRANSFERS AND SERVICING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS 


A transfer of financial assets is accounted for as a 
sale when control is surrendered over the assets trans- 
ferred. Servicing rights and other retained interests in 
the assets sold are recorded by allocating the previous 
recorded investment between the asset sold and the 
interest retained based on their relative fair values, 
if practicable to determine, at the date of transfer. 

The Company recognizes as separate assets the rights 
to service mortgage loans for others, whether the servicing 
rights are acquired through purchases or retained upon 
sales of loan originations. For purposes of evaluating and 
measuring impairment of mortgage servicing rights, the 
Company stratifies its portfolio on the basis of certain risk 
characteristics including loan type and note rate. Based 
upon current fair values and considering outstanding posi- 
tions of derivative financial instruments used as hedges, 
mortgage servicing rights are periodically assessed for 
impairment. Impairment is recognized in the statement of 
income during the period in which impairment occurs as 
an adjustment to the corresponding valuation allowance. 
Mortgage servicing rights are amortized over the period 
of estimated net servicing income and take into account 
appropriate prepayment assumptions. 


PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT 


Premises and equipment are stated at cost less 
accumulated depreciation and amortization. Capital 
leases are included in premises and equipment, at the 
capitalized amount less accumulated amortization. 

Depreciation and amortization are computed primarily 
using the straight-line method. Estimated useful lives range 
up to 40 years for buildings, 2 to 10 years for furniture 
and equipment, and up to the lease term for leasehold 
improvements. Capitalized leased assets are amortized 
on a straight-line basis over the lives of the respective 
leases, which generally range from 20 to 35 years. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 57 


GOODWILL AND IDENTIFIABLE INTANGIBLE ASSETS 


Goodwill, representing the excess of purchase price 
over the fair value of net assets acquired, results from 
acquisitions made by the Company. Substantially all 
of the Company’s goodwill is being amortized using 
the straight-line method over 25 years. Core deposit 
intangibles are amortized on an accelerated basis based 
on an estimated useful life of 10 to 15 years. Certain 
identifiable intangible assets that are included in other 
assets are generally amortized using an accelerated 
method over an original life of 5 to 15 years. 

The Company reviews its intangible assets periodically 
for other-than-temporary impairment. If such impairment 
is indicated, recoverability of the asset is assessed based 
on expected undiscounted net cash flows. 


INCOME TAXES 


The Company files a consolidated federal income tax 
return. Federal income tax is generally allocated to indi- 
vidual subsidiaries as if each had filed a separate return. 
Combined state tax returns are filed in certain states. 
State taxes are also allocated to individual subsidiaries. 

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are determined 
using the liability (or balance sheet) method. Under this 
method, the net deferred tax asset or liability is determined 
based on the tax effects of the differences between the 
book and tax bases of the various balance sheet assets 
and liabilities and gives current recognition to changes 
in tax rates and laws. Foreign taxes paid are applied as 
credits to reduce federal income taxes payable. 


EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE 


Earnings per common share are presented under two 
formats: earnings per common share and diluted earnings 
per common share. Earnings per common share are 
computed by dividing net income (after deducting 
dividends on preferred stock) by the average number 
of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted 
earnings per common share are computed by dividing net 
income (after deducting dividends on preferred stock) by 
the average number of common shares outstanding 
during the year, plus the impact of those common stock 
equivalents (i.e., stock options, restricted share rights and 
convertible subordinated debentures) that are dilutive. 


58 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 


Interest rate derivatives The Company uses interest 
rate derivative financial instruments (futures contracts, 
forward contracts, swaps, caps, floors and options) 
primarily to hedge mismatches in the rate maturity of 
loans and their funding sources and the price risk of 
interest-rate sensitive assets. These instruments serve 
to reduce rather than increase the Company’s exposure 
to movements in interest rates. At the inception of the 
hedge, the Company identifies an individual asset or 
liability, or an identifiable group of essentially similar 
assets or liabilities, that expose the Company to interest 
rate risk at the consolidated or enterprise level. Interest 
rate derivatives are accounted for by the deferral or 
accrual method only if they are designated as a hedge 
and are expected to be and are effective in substantially 
reducing the risk arising from the asset or liability identi- 
fied as exposing the Company to risk. Futures contracts 
must meet specific high correlation tests. For caps, floors 
and swaps hedging mismatches between interest-bearing 
assets and liabilities, their notional amount, interest rate 
index and life must closely match the related terms of 
the hedged asset or liability. Caps, floors, swaps and 
options and the mortgage servicing rights that they 
hedge must correlate based on certain duration and 
convexity parameters. For futures contracts, if the 
underlying financial instrument differs from the hedged 
asset or liability, there must be a clear economic relation- 
ship between the prices of the two financial instruments. 
If periodic assessment indicates derivatives no longer 
provide an effective hedge, the derivatives are closed 
out or settled; previously unrecognized hedge results 
and the net settlement upon close-out or termination 
that offset changes in value of the hedged asset or liabili- 
ty are deferred and amortized over the life of the asset or 
liability with excess amounts recognized in noninterest 
income or noninterest expense. 

Gains and losses on futures contracts, which result 
from the daily settlement of their open positions, and 
on forward contracts are deferred and classified on the 
balance sheet consistent with the hedge strategy. They 
are recognized in income along with and when the effects 
of the related changes of the hedged asset or liability are 
recognized. Amounts payable or receivable for swaps, 
caps and floors are accrued with the passage of time, 
the effect of which is included in income along with and 
when the effects of the related changes of the hedged 


asset or liability are recognized. Gains and losses on 
options are recognized as a component of the income 
reported on the hedged asset or liability. Fees associated 
with these financial contracts are included on the balance 
sheet at the time that the fee is paid and are classified 
consistent with the hedge strategy. These fees are fully 
recognized by the end of their contractual life. 

If a hedged asset or liability settles before maturity 
of the hedging interest rate derivatives, the derivatives 
are closed out or settled, and previously unrecognized 
hedge results and the net settlement upon close-out or 
termination are accounted for as part of the gains and 
losses on the hedged asset or liability. If interest rate 
derivatives used in an effective hedge are closed out or 
terminated before the hedged item settles, previously 
unrecognized hedge results and the net settlement upon 
close-out or termination are deferred and amortized 
over the life of the hedged asset or liability. Cash flows 
resulting from interest rate derivatives (including any 
related fees) that are accounted for as hedges of assets 
and liabilities are classified in the cash flow statement 
in the same category as the cash flows from the items 
being hedged and are reflected in that statement when 
the cash receipts or payments due under the terms of 
the instruments are collected, paid or settled. 

Interest rate derivatives entered into as an accommoda- 
tion to customers, interest rate derivatives used to offset 
the interest rate risk of those contracts and positions taken 
based on the Company’s market expectations or to benefit 
from price differentials between financial instruments and 
markets are carried at fair value with unrealized gains and 
losses recorded in noninterest income. Losses are recog- 
nized currently on put options written when the fair value 
of the underlying security falls below the contractual price 
at which the security may be put to the Company plus the 
premium received. Premiums received on covered call 
options written are deferred until the option terminates. 

If the fair value of the underlying asset is greater than the 
contractual price at which the Company must sell the 
asset, the option should be exercised, at which time the 
premium will be recorded as an adjustment of the gain 
or loss recognized on the underlying asset. If the option 
expires, the premium is recognized in other noninterest 
income. The fair value of interest rate derivative financial 
instruments with an unrealized gain is included in trading 
assets (i.e., within other assets) while the fair value of 
instruments with an unrealized loss is included in other 
liabilities. Cash flows resulting from instruments carried 


at fair value are classified in the cash flow statement as 
operating cash flows and are reflected in that statement 
when the cash receipts or payments due under the terms 
of the instruments are collected, paid or settled. 

Credit risk related to interest rate derivative financial 
instruments is considered and, if material, provided for 
separately from the allowance for loan losses. 

Foreign exchange derivatives The Company enters 
into foreign exchange derivative financial instruments 
(forward and spot contracts and options) primarily as 
an accommodation to customers and offsets the related 
foreign exchange risk with other foreign exchange 
derivatives. Those contracts are carried at fair value, 
with unrealized gains and losses recorded in noninterest 
income. Cash flows resulting from foreign exchange 
derivatives are classified in the cash flow statement as 
operating cash flows and are reflected in that statement 
when the cash receipts or payments due under the 
terms of the foreign exchange derivatives are collected, 
paid or settled. 

The Company also uses forward foreign exchange 
contracts to hedge uncertainties in funding costs related 
to specific liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. 
Gains and losses on those contracts are recognized in 
income and classified on the balance sheet consistent 
with the hedged item. Cash flows resulting from these 
foreign exchange derivatives (including any related fees) 
are classified in the cash flow statement in the same 
category as the cash flows from the item being hedged 
and are reflected in that statement when the cash receipts 
or payments due under the terms of the instruments are 
collected, paid or settled. 

Credit risk related to all foreign exchange derivatives 
is considered and, if material, provided for separately 
from the allowance for loan losses. 


FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION 


The accounts of the Company’s foreign consumer 
finance subsidiaries are measured using local currency 
as the functional currency. Assets and liabilities are trans- 
lated into United States dollars at period-end exchange 
rates, and income and expense accounts are translated 
at average monthly exchange rates. Net exchange gains 
or losses resulting from such translation are excluded 
from net income and included as a component of 
cumulative other comprehensive income. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 59 


Note Business Combinations 


The Company regularly explores opportunities to 
acquire financial institutions and related businesses. 
Generally, management of the Company does not make a 
public announcement about an acquisition opportunity 
until a definitive agreement is signed. At December 31, 
1998, the Company had five pending transactions with 
total assets of approximately $1.4 billion and anticipated 


(in millions, except shares) 


1998 

Finvercon S.A. Compania, Financiera, Argentina 
Fidelity Bancshares, Inc., Fort Worth, Texas 
Heritage Trust Company, Grand Junction, Colorado 
Founders Trust Company, Dallas, Texas 


The T. Eaton Acceptance Company Limited and National 
Retail Credit Services Limited, Don Mills, Ontario, Canada 


WMC Mortgage Corporation, Woodland Hills, California 
First Bank, Katy, Texas 

First Bank of Grants, Grants, New Mexico 

Spring Mountain Escrow Corporation, Irvine, California 
Emjay Corporation, Milwaukee, Wisconsin 


Six affiliated bank holding companies and related entities, 
located in Minnesota, Wisconsin, New Mexico, Arizona 
and Colorado, including MidAmerica 


First Bancshares of Valley City, Inc., Valley City, North Dakota 
Peoples Insurance Agency, Inc., Valley City, North Dakota 

Star Bancshares, Inc., Austin, Texas 

Freedom Trailer Leasing, Inc., Chesterfield, Missouri 

Little Mountain Bancshares, Inc., Monticello, Minnesota 

First National Bank of Missouri City, Missouri City, Texas 
Franklin Bancshares, Inc., Franklin, Texas 


1997 

Franklin Federal Bancorp., ES.B., Austin, Texas 

Central Bancorporation, Inc., Fort Worth, Texas 

Reliable Financial Services, Inc., San Juan, Puerto Rico 
Statewide Mortgage Company, Birmingham, Alabama 

The United Group, Inc., Charlotte, North Carolina 

Farmers National Bancorp, Inc., Geneseo, Illinois 

The First National Bankshares, Inc., Tucumcari, New Mexico 
Tennessee Credit Corporation, Nashville, Tennessee 


Western National Trust Company, National Association, 
Odessa, Texas 


Fidelity Acceptance Corporation, St. Louis, Missouri 


The Bank of the Southwest, National Association, 
Pagosa Springs, Colorado 


International Bancorporation, Inc., Golden Valley, Minnesota 
Subsidiaries of Cityside Holding L.L.C., Eden Prairie, Minnesota 
J.L.J. Financial Services Corporation, Montvale, New Jersey 
Myers Bancshares Inc., Dallas, Texas 

Packers Management Company, Inc., Omaha, Nebraska 

First Valley Bank Group, Inc., Los Fresnos, Texas 


60 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


that approximately $200 million in cash and approxi- 
mately 5.7 million common shares will be issued upon 
consummation of these transactions. These pending 
acquisitions, subject to approval by regulatory agencies, 
are expected to be completed by the end of the second 


quarter of 1999. 


Transactions completed in the years ended 
December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 include: 


Date 


January 8 
January 13 
February 20 
March 2 


April 21 
April 30 
May 22 
May 28 
May 29 
June 15 


July 2, 23 
July 31 
July 31 

August 31 

August 31 

September 8 
October 30 
December 1 


January 1 
January 28 
February 21 
February 26 
March 21 
March 24 
June 17 
July 18 


July 31 
August 31 


September 2 
October 21 
October 30 
October 31 

November 14 
November 25 
December 1 


Assets Cash Common 
paid shares 

issued 

$ 57 $20 = 
11 16 —_ 

2 = 136,950 

2 7 = 

370 248 — 

5 22, — 

310 — 1,999,980 
45 — 212,487 

1 HE i 

6 — 297,979 
1,317 = 8,060,664 
96 — 451,943 

_— — 6,804 
582 —_ 4,275,077 

hy 4 —_ 

82 — 561,016 

91 — 740,333 

72 _ 12 —_ 
$3,154 $330. 16,743,233 
$ 621 $ 90 — 
1,105 =o 9,399,576 
39 < 1,753,086 

28 = 1,049,992 

41 _— 648,348 
198 _ 1,207,198 
90 _ 608,900 

13 3 _ 

= 1 = 
1,135 344 = 
85 _ 490,790 
483 _ 3,601,935 
104 42 _ 
26 6 —_ 
135 _— 613,247 
162 _ 1,171,161 
519 _ 3,291,302 
$4,784 $486 23,835,535 


Method of 
accounting 


Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 


Purchase 
Purchase 
Pooling of interests* 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 


Pooling of interests* 
Purchase 
Purchase 

Pooling of interests* 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 


Purchase of assets 
Pooling of interests* 
Pooling of interests* 

Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 


Purchase 
Purchase 


Purchase 
Pooling of interests* 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Pooling of interests* 


(in millions, except shares) 


1996 

The Bank of Robstown, Robstown, Texas 

AMEFED Financial, Inc., Reno, Nevada 

Irene Bancorporation, Inc., Viborg, South Dakota 
Canton Bancshares, Inc., Canton, Illinois 

Henrietta Bancshares, Inc., Henrietta, Texas 

First Interstate Bancorp, Los Angeles, California 
Victoria Bankshares, Inc., Victoria, Texas 

The Prudential Home Mortgage Company, Inc. 
Cardinal Credit Corporation, Lexington, Kentucky 
Benson Financial Corporation, San Antonio, Texas 
Regional Bank of Colorado, N.A., Rifle, Colorado 
AmeriGroup, Incorporated, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
Union Texas Bancorporation, Inc., Laredo, Texas 

B & G Investment Company, San Antonio, Texas 
PriMerit Bank, ES.B., Las Vegas, Nevada 

Aman Collection Service, Inc., Aberdeen, South Dakota 
Rapid Finance, Inc., Jacksonville, Mississippi 
National Business Finance, Inc., Denver, Colorado 
American Bank Moorhead, Moorhead, Minnesota 
Texas Bancorporation, Inc., Odessa, Texas 

West Columbia National Bank, West Columbia, Texas 


Date 


January 12 
January 18 
January 31 
February 15 
March 12 
April 1 
April 11 
May 7 

May 13 
May 31 
June 1 

June 4 

June 27 
July 3 

July 19 
August 2 
August 16 
September 30 
October 1 
November 1 
December 27 


Assets Cash Common 
paid shares 

issued 

$ 71 $ 9 — 
1,519 _ 12,093,272 
40 7 i 

50 _ 558,540 

164 24 — 
555797 _ 520,019,700 
1,919 _— 17,021,602 
3,336 3,336 me 
34 34 _— 

464 _— 4,088,070 

56 = 709,934 

155 — 1,832,400 
245 _ 789,958 

F4. — 541,996 
1,578 191 = 
4 _ 1,200,000 

29 29 _— 

8 e _ 

155 24 — 
174 _ 1,524,990 

34 5 — 
$65,903 $3,666 560,380,462 


Method of 


accounting 


Purchase 
Pooling of interests* 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Pooling of interests* 
Purchase of assets 
Purchase of assets 
Pooling of interests* 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase of assets 
Pooling of interests* 
Purchase of assets 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 
Purchase 


* Pooling of interests transaction was not material to the Company’s consolidated financial statements; accordingly, previously reported results were not restated. 


MERGER OF NORWEST AND WELLS FARGO 


On November 2, 1998, the former Wells Fargo merged 


with a subsidiary of Norwest Corporation, and Norwest 
changed its name to “Wells Fargo & Company.” Under 
the terms of the Merger agreement, stockholders of 
the former Wells Fargo received 10 shares of common 
stock of the Company for each share of common stock 
owned. Each share of former Wells Fargo preferred 
stock was converted into one share of the Company’s 
preferred stock. These shares will rank on parity with 
the Company’s preferred stock as to dividends and upon 
liquidation. Each outstanding and unexercised option 
granted by the former Wells Fargo was converted into 
an option to purchase common stock of the Company 
based on the agreed-upon exchange ratio. 

As a condition to the Merger, the Company was 
required by regulatory agencies to divest stores in 
Arizona and Nevada having aggregate deposits of 
approximately $1 billion. In the fourth quarter of 1998, 
the Company entered into contracts to sell these stores. 
These sales are expected to be completed during the 
second quarter of 1999. 


Merger-related expenses of approximately $1 billion that 
were recognized in the fourth quarter of 1998 included 


restructuring charges of approximately $600 million. The 


following table presents the major components of the 
restructuring charges: 


Severance- 
related costs 


Premises: 


Owned 


Leased ; 
Total premises- 
related costs 


Other 
Total restructuring 
charges 


Amounts 


(in millions) 


$280 


100 (1) 


150 


250 (2) 


70 


600 


Income statement 
classification 


Salaries and 
benefits 


Net losses on 
dispositions of 
premises and 
equipment 


Various 


(1) Carrying value of these assets totaled approximately $70 million at 


December 31, 1998. 


(2) These premises are held for sale or remarketing and are expected to be 
removed from operations during 1999, pursuant to Merger plans. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 61 


Accrued severance-related costs relate to the elimina- 
tion into 2000 of about 5% of the Company’s positions. 
The majority of these reductions are the result of 
eliminating redundant headquarters, back office and 
other positions. 

Previously reported financial information for Norwest 
and the former Wells Fargo is shown in the table below. 


(in millions) Nine months ended Year ended 
September 30, 1998 December 31, 
(unaudited) 1997 1996 
Revenue (1) 
Norwest $5,913 $6,996 $6,266 
Wells Fargo 5,623 7,318 6,721 
Net Income 
Norwest $1,143 $1,351 $1,154 
Wells Fargo 999 1155 1,071 


(1) Revenue equals net interest income plus noninterest income. 


Note 3 Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions 


The combined financial results of the Company 
include adjustments to conform the accounting policies 
of the former Norwest and the former Wells Fargo. 
The December 31, 1995 balances of certain balance 
sheet accounts were adjusted to reflect the conforming 
accounting treatment. Other liabilities increased $75 
million and retained earnings decreased $75 million to 
conform the accounting treatment for the postretirement 
transition obligation identified with the implementation 
of FAS 106, Employers’ Accounting for Postretirement 
Benefits Other than Pensions. Premises and equipment 
decreased $53 million and retained earnings decreased 
$53 million to reflect the conforming of the capitalization 
policies. In noninterest expense, salaries and benefits 
decreased $6 million for the nine months ended 
September 30, 1998 and $8 million for the years 
ended December 31, 1997 and 1996 and equipment 
expense increased $2 million for the nine months ended 
September 30, 1998 and $18 million and $3 million 
for the years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, 
respectively. Net income increased $2 million for the 
nine months ended September 30, 1998 and (decreased) 
increased $(7) million and $3 million for the years ended 
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 


Federal Reserve Board (FRB) regulations require 
reserve balances on deposits to be maintained by each of 
the banking subsidiaries with the Federal Reserve Banks. 
The average required reserve balance was $2.2 billion 
and $2.3 billion in 1998 and 1997, respectively. 

Federal law prevents the Company and its nonbank 
subsidiaries from borrowing from its subsidiary banks 
unless the loans are secured by specified collateral. Such 
secured loans by any subsidiary bank are generally limited 
to 10% of the subsidiary bank’s capital and surplus (as 
defined, which for this purpose represents Tier 1 and 
Tier 2 capital, as calculated under the risk-based capital 
guidelines, plus the balance of the allowance for loan 
losses excluded from Tier 2 capital) and aggregate loans 
to the Company and its nonbank subsidiaries are limited 
to 20% of the subsidiary bank’s capital and surplus. 

(For further discussion of risk-based capital, see Note 22 
to Financial Statements.) 

The payment of dividends to the Parent by subsidiary 
banks is subject to various federal and state regulatory 
limitations. Dividends payable by a national bank to the 
Parent without the express approval of the Office of the 
Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) are limited to that 
bank’s retained net profits for the preceding two calendar 
years plus retained net profits up to the date of any divi- 
dend declaration in the current calendar year. Retained 


62 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


net profits are defined by the OCC as net income, less 
dividends declared during the period, both of which 

are based on regulatory accounting principles. The 
Company also has state-chartered subsidiary banks that 
are subject to state regulations that limit dividends. Under 
these provisions and except for Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 
(WEB, N.A.), the Company’s national and state-chartered 
subsidiary banks could have declared dividends of $687 
million and $495 million in 1998 and 1997, respectively, 
without obtaining prior regulatory approval. With the 
express approval of the OCC, WEB, N.A. declared 
dividends in 1998 and 1997 of $1.5 billion in excess of 
its net income of $2.0 billion for those years. (The total 
dividends declared by WFB, N.A. in 1998, 1997 and 
1996 were $1.5 billion, $2.0 billion and $1.5 billion, 
respectively.) Therefore, before it can declare dividends 
in 1999 without the approval of the OCC, WFB, N.A. 
must have net income of $1.5 billion plus an amount 
equal to or greater than the dividends declared in 1999. 
Since it is not expected to have net income of $1.5 billion 
plus an amount equal to or greater than the dividends 
expected to be declared in 1999, WEB, N.A. will again 
need to obtain the approval of the OCC before any divi- 
dends are declared in 1999. In addition, the Company’s 
non-bank subsidiaries could have declared dividends of 
$1.2 billion and $1.0 billion at December 31, 1998 and 
1997, respectively. 


Note Securities Available for Sale 


The following table provides the cost and fair value 
for the major components of securities available for sale 


carried at fair value (there were no securities held 
to maturity at the end of the last three years): 


(in millions) December 31, 
1998 1997 1996 
Cost Estimated Estimated Estimated Cost Estimated Estimated Estimated Cost Estimated 
unrealized unrealized fair value unrealized unrealized fair value fair value 
gross gains gross losses gross gains gross losses 
Securities of U.S. Treasury 
and federal agencies $ 3,260 $ 45 $18 $ 3,287 $ 3,594 $ 38 $6 $ 3,626 $ 3,998 $ 4,017 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions 1,683 115 4 1,794 1,652 76 2: 1,726 928 962 
Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies 20,539 293 28 20,804 18,203 369 20 = 18,552 19,694 19,834 
Private collateralized 
mortgage obligations (1) 3,420 29 _9 3,440 2,646 21 13 2,654 3,403 3,403 
Total mortgage-backed securities 23,959 322 37 24,244 20,849 390 33 21,206 23,097 23,237 
Other 1,879 41 zi 1,899 729 18 3 744 844 844 
Total debt securities 30,781 523 80 31,224 26,824 522 44 27,302 28,867 29,060 
Marketable equity securities 386 396 8. 773 308 265 =3 570 374 692 
Total $31,167 919 $89 1,997 $27,132 $787 $47 $27,872 $29,241 $29,752 


(1) Substantially all private collateralized mortgage obligations are AAA-rated bonds collateralized by 1-4 family residential first mortgages. 


At December 31, 1998, the Company held no securities 
of any single issuer (excluding the U.S. Treasury and 
federal agencies) with a book value that exceeded 10% 
of stockholders’ equity. 

Proceeds from the sale of securities in the securities 
available for sale portfolio totaled $11.1 billion, $9.8 
billion and $5.9 billion in 1998, 1997 and 1996. 

For the year ended December 31, 1998, the sales of 
securities in the securities available for sale portfolio 
resulted in a realized net gain of $169 million, comprised 
of realized gross gains of $209 million and realized gross 
losses of $40 million. The sales of securities in the securi- 
ties available for sale portfolio resulted in a realized net 


(in millions) 
Total Weighted 


gain of $99 million and $12 million, comprised of realized 
gross gains of $168 million and $184 million, and realized 
gross losses of $69 million and $172 million for the year 
ended December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 

The following table provides the remaining contractual 
principal maturities and yields (taxable-equivalent basis) of 
debt securities available for sale. The remaining contractual 
principal maturities for mortgage-backed securities were 
allocated assuming no prepayments. Expected remaining 
maturities will differ from contractual maturities because 
borrowers may have the right to prepay obligations with 
or without penalties. 


December 31, 1998 


Remaining contractual principal maturity 


amount average After one year After five years 
yield Within one year _ through five years _ through ten years After ten years 
Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield 
Securities of U.S. Treasury 
and federal agencies $ 3,287 5.76% $1,241 5.91% $1,109 5.93% $ 872 5.38% $ 65 5.05% 
Securities of U.S. states and 
political subdivisions 1,794 6.54 79 5.58 423 6.58 293 6.94 999 6.49 
Mortgage-backed securities: 
Federal agencies 20,804 6.88 454 6.37 1,448 6.62 1,092 6.59 17,810 6.93 
Private collateralized 
mortgage obligations 3,440 6.71 274 6.28 843 6.54 644 = 7.12 1,679 6.71 
Total mortgage-backed securities 24,244 6.86 728 6.34 2,291 6.59 1,736 6.79 19,489 6.91 
Other 1,899 7.04 100 6.51 813 557 695 8.17 291 7.58 
ESTIMATED FAIR VALUE 
OF DEBT SECURITIES (1) $31,224 6.73% $2,148 06% $4,636 6.28% $3,596 6.72% $20,844 90% 
TOTAL COST OF 
DEBT SECURITIES $30,781 2,086 4.430 $3,576 $20,689 


(1) The weighted average yield is computed using the amortized cost of debt securities available for sale. 


Securities pledged primarily to secure trust and public 
deposits and for other purposes as required or permitted 


by law was $11.2 billion, $13.8 billion and $11.8 billion 
at December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 63 


Note 


Loans and Allowance for Loan Losses 


A summary of the major categories of loans 
outstanding is shown in the following table. 


(in millions) 


Commercial 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 
Other real estate mortgage 
Real estate construction 
Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family junior lien mortgage 
Credit card 
Other revolving credit and monthly payment 
Total consumer 
Lease financing 
Foreign 
Total loans (1) 


December 31, 

1998 1997 

$ 35,450 $ 32,061 
11,629 14,165 
16,668 16,326 
3,790 3,326 
10,996 10,618 
5,795 6,671 
15,677 17,021 
32,468 34,310 
6,380 4,968 
1,609 L155 
$107,994 $106,311 


(1) Outstanding loan balances at December 31, 1998 and 1997 are net of unearned income, including net deferred loan fees, of $2,967 million and $2,938 million, respectively. 


Total unfunded commitments to extend credit were 
$71,467 million and $66,511 million at December 31, 
1998 and 1997, respectively. Unfunded commitments are 
defined as all legally binding agreements to extend credit, 
net of all funds lent and all standby and commercial 
letters of credit issued under the terms of those commit- 
ments. At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the commercial 
loan category and related unfunded commitments did 
not have an industry concentration that exceeded 10% 
of total loans and unfunded commitments. The table 
below summarizes the major categories of unfunded 
commitments to extend credit: 


(in millions) December 31, 1998 
Commercial $ 34,892 
Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage 1,311 
Other real estate mortgage 1,302 
Real estate construction 3,007 
Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family 
junior lien mortgage 55792 
Credit card 18,874 
Other revolving credit 
and monthly payment 6,236 
Total consumer 30,902 
Lease financing _ 
Foreign 53. 
Total unfunded commitments 
to extend credit $ 71,467 


In the course of evaluating the credit risk presented 
by a customer and the pricing that will adequately 
compensate the Company for assuming that risk, 
management may determine a requisite amount of 
collateral support. The type of collateral held varies, 
but may include accounts receivable, inventory, land, 


64 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


buildings, equipment, income-producing commercial 
properties and residential real estate. The Company has 
the same collateral policy for loans whether they are 
funded immediately or on a delayed basis (commitment). 

A commitment to extend credit is a legally binding 
agreement to lend funds to a customer and is usually 
for a specified interest rate and purpose. These commit- 
ments have fixed expiration dates and generally require 
a fee. The extension of a commitment gives rise to credit 
risk. The actual liquidity needs or the credit risk that 
the Company will experience will be lower than the 
contractual amount of commitments to extend credit 
shown in the table to the left because a significant portion 
of these commitments is expected to expire without 
being drawn upon. Certain commitments are subject 
to a loan agreement containing covenants regarding the 
financial performance of the customer that must be met 
before the Company is required to fund the commitment. 
The Company uses the same credit policies in making 
commitments to extend credit as it does in making loans. 

In addition, the Company manages the potential credit 
risk in commitments to extend credit by limiting the total 
amount of arrangements, both by individual customer 
and in the aggregate; by monitoring the size and maturity 
structure of these portfolios; and by applying the same 
credit standards maintained for all of its related credit 
activities. The credit risk associated with these commit- 
ments is considered in management’s determination of 
the allowance for loan losses. 

Standby letters of credit totaled $3,332 million 
and $3,716 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, 
respectively. Standby letters of credit are issued on 
behalf of customers in connection with contracts 
between the customers and third parties. Under standby 
letters of credit, the Company assures that the third 


parties will receive specified funds if customers fail to 
meet their contractual obligations. The liquidity risk 

to the Company arises from its obligation to make pay- 
ment in the event of a customer’s contractual default. 
The credit risk involved in issuing letters of credit 

and the Company’s management of that credit risk 

is considered in management’s determination of the 
allowance for loan losses. Standby letters of credit 

are net of participations sold to other institutions 

of $837 million in 1998 and $573 million in 1997. 

Included in standby letters of credit are those that 
back financial instruments (financial guarantees). The 
Company had issued or purchased participations in 
financial guarantees of approximately $2,188 million 
and $2,140 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, 
respectively. The Company also had commitments for 
commercial and similar letters of credit of $691 million 
and $751 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, 
respectively. Substantially all fees received from the 
issuance of financial guarantees are deferred and 
amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of 
the guarantee. Losses on standby letters of credit and 
other similar letters of credit have been immaterial. 

The Company has an established process to determine 
the adequacy of the allowance for loan losses which 
assesses the risk and losses inherent in its portfolio. This 
process provides an allowance consisting of two compo- 
nents, allocated and unallocated. To arrive at the allocated 
component of the allowance, the Company combines 
estimates of the allowances needed for loans analyzed 
individually (including impaired loans subject to Statement 
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 114 (FAS 114), 
Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan) and 
loans analyzed on a pool basis. 

The determination of allocated reserves for portfolios 
of larger commercial and commercial real estate loans 
involves a review of individual higher-risk transactions, 
focusing on the accuracy of loan grading, assessments 
of specific loss content, and, in some cases, strategies 
for resolving problem credits. These considerations 
supplement the application of loss factors delineated by 
individual loan grade to the existing distribution of risk 
exposures, thus framing an assessment of inherent losses 
across the entire wholesale lending portfolio segment 
which is responsive to shifts in portfolio risk content. 
The loss factors used for this analysis have been derived 
from migration models which track actual portfolio 
movements from problem asset loan grades to loss over 
a 5 to 10 year period. In the case of pass loan grades, 
the loss factors are derived from analogous loss experi- 
ence in public debt markets, calibrated to the long-term 
average loss experience of the Company’s portfolios. 
The loan loss reserve allocations arrived at through this 
loss factor methodology are adjusted by management’s 
judgment concerning the effect of recent economic events 
on portfolio performance. 


In the case of more homogeneous portfolios, such 
as consumer loans and leases, residential mortgage 
loans, and some segments of small business lending, 
the determination of allocated reserves is conducted 
at a more aggregate, or pooled, level. For portfolios 
of this nature, the risk assessment process emphasizes 
the development of rigorous forecasting models, which 
focus on recent delinquency and loss trends in different 
portfolio segments to project relevant risk metrics over 
an intermediate-term horizon. Such analyses are updated 
frequently to capture the most recent behavioral charac- 
teristics of the subject portfolios, as well as any changes 
in management’s loss mitigation or customer solicitation 
strategies, in order to reduce the differences between 
estimated and observed losses. A reserve which approxi- 
mates one year of projected net losses is provided as 
the baseline allocation for most homogeneous portfolios, 
to which management will add certain adjustments to 
ensure that a prudent amount of conservatism is present 
in the specific assumptions underlying that forecast. 

While coverage of one year’s losses is often adequate 
(particularly for homogeneous pools of loans and 
leases), the time period covered by the allowance may 
vary by portfolio, based on the Company’s best estimate 
of the inherent losses in the entire portfolio as of the 
evaluation date. To mitigate the imprecision inherent in 
most estimates of expected credit losses, the allocated 
component of the allowance is supplemented by an 
unallocated component. The unallocated component 
includes management’s judgmental determination of the 
amounts necessary for concentrations, economic uncer- 
tainties and other subjective factors; correspondingly, the 
relationship of the unallocated component to the total 
allowance for loan losses may fluctuate from period to 
period. At December 31, 1998, the unallocated portion 
amounted to 37% of the total allowance, compared to 
33% at December 31, 1997. Although management 
has allocated a portion of the allowance to specific 
loan categories, the adequacy of the allowance must 
be considered in its entirety. 

The Company’s determination of the level of the 
allowance and, correspondingly, the provision for loan 
losses rests upon various judgments and assumptions, 
including general economic conditions, loan portfolio 
composition, prior loan loss experience and the Company’s 
ongoing examination process and that of its regulators. 
The Company has an internal risk analysis and review staff 
that reports to the Board of Directors and continuously 
reviews loan quality. Such reviews also assist management 
in establishing the level of the allowance. Like all national 
banks, subsidiary national banks continue to be subject 
to examination by their primary regulator, the Office of 
the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC), and some have 
OCC examiners in residence. These examinations occur 
throughout the year and target various activities of the 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 65 


subsidiary national banks, including specific segments 


of the loan portfolio (for example, commercial real 


estate and shared national credits). In addition to the 
subsidiary national banks being examined by the OCC, 
the Parent and its nonbank subsidiaries are examined 


by the Federal Reserve. 


The Company considers the allowance for loan losses 
of $3,134 million adequate to cover losses inherent in 
loans, loan commitments and standby letters of credit 


at December 31, 1998. 


Changes in the allowance for loan losses were as follows: 


(in millions) 


Balance, beginning of year 


Allowances related to assets 
acquired, net 


Provision for loan losses 


Loan charge-offs: 
Commercial 


Real estate 1-4 family 
first mortgage 


Other real estate mortgage 
Real estate construction 
Consumer: 


Real estate 1-4 family 
junior lien mortgage 


Credit card 


Other revolving credit and 
monthly payment 


Total consumer 
Lease financing 
Foreign 
Total loan charge-offs 
Loan recoveries: 
Commercial 


Real estate 1-4 family 
first mortgage 


Other real estate mortgage 
Real estate construction 
Consumer: 
Real estate 1-4 family 
junior lien mortgage 
Credit card 


Other revolving credit and 
monthly payment 


Total consumer 
Lease financing 
Foreign 
Total loan recoveries 
Total net loan 
charge-offs 
Balance, end of year 


Total net loan charge-offs 
as a percentage of 
average total loans 


Allowance as a percentage 
of total loans 


Year ended December 31, 


1998 1997 1996 
$ 3,062 $ 3,059 $2701 
144 168 870 
1,545 1,140 500 
(261) (357) (200) 
(26) (26) (24) 
(54) (26) (50) 
(3) (5) (14) 
(31) (37) (38) 
(535) (579) (487) 
(1,002) (618) (488) 
(1,568) (1,234) (1,013) 
(48) (46) (35) 
__(84) (37) (35) 
(2,044) (1,731) (1,371) 
82 105 89 
11 9 12 
78 62 $7 
4 12 12 
7 10 10 
56 61 50 
163 144 101 
226 215 161 
12 13 9 
14 10 9 
427 426 349 
(1,617) (1,305) (1,022) 
$3,134 $ 3,062 $ 3,059 
1.52% 1.25% 1.04% 
2.90% 2.88% 2.89% 


66 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


In accordance with FAS 114, the table below 
shows the recorded investment in impaired loans 
by methodology used to measure impairment at 
December 31, 1998 and 1997: 


(in millions) December 31, 


1998 1997 

Impairment measurement based on: 
Collateral value method $329 $346 
Discounted cash flow method 67 61 
Historical loss factors 45 2 
Total (1)(2) $411 434 


(1) Includes accruing loans of $23 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997 that 
were purchased at a steep discount whose contractual terms were modified 
after acquisition. The modified terms did not affect the book balance nor the 
yields expected at the date of purchase. 


(2) Includes $155 million and $115 million of impaired loans with a related 
FAS 114 allowance of $37 million and $36 million at December 31, 1998 and 
1997, respectively. 


The average recorded investment in impaired loans 
during 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $456 million, $513 
million and $655 million, respectively. Total interest 
income recognized on impaired loans during 1998, 
1997 and 1996 was $13 million, $15 million and $21 
million, respectively, which was primarily recorded using 
the cash method. 

The Company uses either the cash or cost recovery 
method to record cash receipts on impaired loans that 
are on nonaccrual. Under the cash method, contractual 
interest is credited to interest income when received. 
This method is used when the ultimate collectibility 
of the total principal is not in doubt. Under the cost 
recovery method, all payments received are applied to 
principal. This method is used when the ultimate col- 
lectibility of the total principal is in doubt. Loans on 
the cost recovery method may be changed to the cash 
method when the application of the cash payments 
has reduced the principal balance to a level where 
collection of the remaining recorded investment is 
no longer in doubt. 


Note 


The following table presents comparative data for 
premises and equipment: 


Premises, Equipment, Lease Commitments and Other Assets 


Rental expense, net of rental income, for all operating 
leases was $473 million, $441 million and $427 million 
in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 

The components of interest receivable and other assets 
at December 31, 1998 and 1997 were as follows: 


(in millions) December 31, 
1998 1997 
Land $ 357 $ 364 
Buildings 2,135 2,403 
Furniture and equipment 2,688 2,474 
Leasehold improvements 732 609 
Premises leased under capital leases 80 125 
Total 5,992 5,975 
Less accumulated depreciation 
and amortization 2,862 2,664 
Net book value 3.13) 331) 


Depreciation and amortization expense was $491 
million, $457 million and $451 million in 1998, 1997 
and 1996, respectively. Losses on disposition of premises 
and equipment, recorded in noninterest expense, were 
$325 million, $76 million and $45 million in 1998, 
1997 and 1996, respectively. Gains (losses) from 
disposition of operations, recorded in noninterest 
income, were $100 million, $15 million and $(95) 
million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 

The Company is obligated under a number of non- 
cancelable operating leases for premises (including 
vacant premises) and equipment with terms, including 
renewal options, up to 100 years, many of which 
provide for periodic adjustment of rentals based 
on changes in various economic indicators. The 
following table shows future minimum payments 
under noncancelable operating leases and capital 
leases, net of sublease rentals, with terms in excess 
of one year as of December 31, 1998: 


(in millions) Operating leases — Capital leases 


Year ended December 31, 


1999 $ 397 $8 
2000 322 7 
2001 248 6 
2002 187 5 
2003 144 5 
Thereafter 905 25 
Total minimum lease payments $2,203 56 
Executory costs (2) 
Amounts representing interest (18) 
Present value of net minimum $36 


lease payments 


(in millions) December 31, 
1998 1997 

Nonmarketable equity investments $ 2,392 $ 1,860 
Interest receivable 1,062 1,057 
Trading assets 760 1,302 
Certain identifiable intangible assets 212 206 
Other real estate (ORE) 173 264 
Due from customers on acceptances 128 129 
Interest-earning deposits 113 68 
Other 6,054 5,190 

Total interest receivable 

and other assets $10,894 $10,076 


Income from nonmarketable equity investments 
accounted for using the cost method was $151 million, 
$157 million and $137 million in 1998, 1997 and 
1996, respectively. 

Trading assets consist predominantly of securities, 
including corporate debt and U.S. government agency 
obligations. Income from trading assets was $206 
million, $151 million and $79 million in 1998, 1997 
and 1996, respectively. 

Amortization expense for certain identifiable intangible 
assets included in other assets was $79 million, $74 mil- 
lion and $78 million in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 67 


Note Deposits 


The aggregate amount of time certificates of deposit 
and other time deposits issued by domestic offices was 
$31,252 million and $32,257 million at December 31, 
1998 and 1997, respectively. At December 31, 1998, the 
contractual maturities of these deposits were as follows: 
$24,931 million in 1999, $3,752 million in 2000, $1,485 
million in 2001, $454 million in 2002, $380 million in 
2003 and $250 million thereafter. Substantially all of 
these deposits were interest bearing. 

Of the total above, the amount of time deposits with a 
denomination of $100,000 or more was $8,053 million 
and $7,571 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, 
respectively. At December 31, 1998, the contractual 


Note Short-Term Borrowings 


maturities of these deposits were as follows: $3,391 
million in 3 months or less, $1,893 million over 3 
through 6 months, $1,999 million over 6 through 
12 months and $770 million over 12 months. 

Time certificates of deposit and other time deposits 
issued by foreign offices with a denomination of 
$100,000 or more represent substantially all of the 
foreign deposit liabilities of $746 million and $1,402 
million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. 

Demand deposit overdrafts that have been reclassified 
as loan balances were $678 million and $703 million at 
December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. 


The table below shows selected information for short- 
term borrowings. These borrowings generally mature in 
less than 30 days. 

At December 31, 1998, the Company had available 
lines of credit totaling $2,521 million, all of which was 


(in millions) 1998 
Amount Rate 


As of December 31, 
Commercial paper and other 


short-term borrowings $ 9,553 5.26% 
Federal funds purchased and 
securities sold under 
agreements to repurchase 6,344 4.18 
Total 15,897 4.83 
Year ended December 31, 
Average daily balance 
Commercial paper and other 
short-term borrowings $ 7,676 5.60% 
Federal funds purchased and 
securities sold under 
agreements to repurchase 6,778 5.11 
Total 14,454 5.37 
Maximum month-end balance 
Commercial paper and other 
short-term borrowings (1) $10,236 NA 
Federal funds purchased and 
securities sold under 
agreements to repurchase (2) 10,364 NA 


NA-Not applicable. 


obtained by a subsidiary, Norwest Financial. A portion 
of these financing arrangements require the maintenance 
of compensating balances or payment of fees, which 

are not material. 


1997 1996 
Amount Rate Amount Rate 
$ 6,456 5.73% $ 5,309 5.37% 
925 5.59 4,694 5.26 
13,381 5.65 10,003 §.32, 
$ 5,473 5.59% $ 5,998 5.37% 
5,889 5.17 4,694 5.10 
11,362 da7 10,692 5.26 
$ 6,456 NA $ 7,785 NA 
8,722 NA 6,320 NA 


(1) Highest month-end balance in each of the last three years appeared in October 1998, December 1997 and July 1996, respectively. 


(2) Highest month-end balance in each of the last three years appeared in April 1998, June 1997 and January 1996, respectively. 


68 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Note Long-Term Debt 


The following is a summary of long-term debt (reflecting unamortized debt discounts and premiums, where 
applicable) owed by the Parent and its subsidiaries: 


Maturity Interest 
(in millions) date rate 1998 1997 
Wells Fargo & Company (Parent only) 
Senior 
Medium-Term Notes (1) 1999-2006 5.625% - 8.15% $ 3,275 $ 4,225 
Medium-Term Notes 1999-2027 4.90% - 7.75% 1,125 233 
Floating Rate Medium-Term Notes 1999 Various 700 330 
Floating Rate Euro Medium-Term Notes 2001 Various 300 300 
Notes (1) 2004 6.00% 2 100 
Notes (1) 2000 6.00% 202 200 
ESOP Notes 1999 8.52% 4 9 
Total senior debt - Parent 5,608 5,397 
Subordinated 
Notes 2003 6.625% 200 200 
Debentures 2023 6.65% 200 200 
Other notes (1) 2003-2004 6.0% - 6.625% 2 8 
Total subordinated debt - Parent 402 408 
Total long-term debt - Parent 6,010 5,805 
WEC Holdings Corporation and subsidiaries 
Senior 
Floating-Rate Medium-Term Notes 1999 Various 150 1,460 
Notes (1) 1998 11.00% _ 55 
Medium-Term Notes (1)(2) 1999-2002 7.78% - 10.90% 243 356 
Notes payable by subsidiaries 51 53 
Obligations of subsidiaries under capital leases (Note 6) 20 59 
Total senior debt - WFC Holdings 464 1,98 
Subordinated 
Floating-Rate Capital Notes (3)(4)(5) 1998 Various _ 200 
Floating-Rate Notes (3)(4) 2000 Various 118 118 
Capital Notes (5) 1999 8.625% 183 186 
Notes (1)(2)(6) 2002 8.15% _ 101 
Notes 2002 8.75% 195 200 
Notes 2002 8.375% 138 149 
Notes 2003 6.875% 150 150 
Notes : 2003 6.125% 249 249 
Notes (1)(2) 2004 9.125% 136 137 
Notes (1)(2)(6) 2004 9.0% 127 124 
Notes (1) 2006 6.875% 499 499 
Notes (1)(2) 2006 7.125% 299 299 
Notes 2008 6.25% 199 — 
Medium-Term Notes (1) 2001-2002 9.38% - 11.25% 157 173 
Medium-Term Notes 2013 6.50% - 6.63% 50 = 
Total subordinated debt - WFC Holdings 2,500 2,585 
Total long-term debt - WFC Holdings 2,964 4,568 
Norwest Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries (NFI) 
Senior debt 1999-2009 4.79% - 8.65% 5,273 5,219 
Subordinated debt 1998 7.34% _— 2 
Total long-term debt - NFI 5,273 5,221 
Other consolidated subsidiaries 
Senior 
FHLB Notes and Advances (7) 1999-2027 3.15% - 8.38% 2,768 S77 
Floating Rate FHLB Advances (7) 1999-2011 Various 2,655 1,326 
Senior Notes 1999-2000 12.25% 1 2 
Other notes and debentures 1999-2006 3.00% - 12.72% 22 20 
Capital lease obligations (Note 6) 16 16 
Total long-term debt - other consolidated subsidiaries 5,462 1,741 
Total consolidated long-term debt $19,709 $17,335 
(1) The Company entered into interest rate swap agreements for substantially all (4) May be redeemed in whole, at par, at any time in the event withholding 
of these Notes, whereby the Company receives fixed-rate interest payments taxes are imposed by the United States. 
approximately equal to interest on the Notes and makes interest payments (5) Mandatory Equity Notes. 
based on an average three-month or six-month LIBOR rate. (6) These Notes are redeemable in whole or in part, at par, prior to maturity. 
(2) The interest rate swap agreement for these Notes is callable by the (7) The maturities of the FHLB advances are determined quarterly, based on the 
counterparty prior to the maturity of the Notes. outstanding balance, the then current LIBOR rate, and the maximum life of the 
(3) Notes are currently redeemable in whole or in part, at par. advance. Advances maturing within the next year are expected to be refinanced, 


extending the maturity of such borrowings beyond one year. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 69 


At December 31, 1998, the principal payments, 
including sinking fund payments, on long-term debt 
are due as follows in the table below. 


(in millions) Parent Company 
1999 $1,781 $ 7,679 
2000 802 1,928 
2001 801 1,687 
2002 526 1,611 
2003 400 1,820 
Thereafter 1,700 4,984 
Total $6,010 $19,709 


The interest rates on floating-rate notes are determined 
periodically by formulas based on certain money market 
rates, subject, on certain notes, to minimum or maximum 
interest rates. 

The terms of the Mandatory Equity Notes of $183 
million, due in 1999, require the Company to sell 


or exchange with the noteholder the Company's 
common stock, perpetual preferred stock or other 
capital securities at maturity or earlier redemption 

of the Notes. At December 31, 1998, $183 million 
of stockholders' equity had been designated for the 
retirement or redemption of these Notes. Repayment 
is subordinated, but only to the extent described 

in the indenture relating to the debentures, to the 
prior payment in full of all the Company’s obligations 
for borrowed money. They are redeemable at the 
principal amount. 

Certain of the agreements under which debt has 
been issued contain provisions that may limit the merger 
or sale of certain subsidiary banks and the issuance 
of capital stock or convertible securities by certain 
subsidiary banks. The Company was in compliance 
with the provisions of the borrowing agreements at 
December 31, 1998. 


vote Ul 0 Guaranteed Preferred Beneficial Interests in Company's Subordinated Debentures 


In 1996, the former Wells Fargo established four 
separate special purpose trusts, which collectively issued 
$1,150 million in trust preferred securities. In 1997, the 
former Wells Fargo issued an additional $150 million in 
trust preferred securities through a separate trust. The 
proceeds from such issuances, together with the proceeds 
of the related issuances of common securities of the 
trusts, were invested in junior subordinated deferrable 
interest debentures (debentures) of the former Wells 
Fargo. Concurrent with the issuance of the preferred 
securities by the trusts, the former Wells Fargo issued 
guarantees for the benefit of the security holders. These 
trust preferred securities provide the Company with a 
more cost-effective means of obtaining Tier 1 capital for 
regulatory purposes than if the Company itself were to 
issue additional preferred stock because the Company is 
allowed to deduct, for income tax purposes, distributions 
to the holders of the trust preferred securities. The sole 
assets of these special purpose trusts are the debentures. 
WEC Holdings Corporation (WFC Holdings), as succes- 


70 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


sor to the former Wells Fargo, owns all of the common 
securities of the five trusts. The preferred securities issued 
by the trusts rank senior to the common securities. The 
obligations of WFC Holdings under the debentures, the 
indentures, the relevant trust agreements and the guaran- 
tees, in the aggregate, constitute a full and unconditional 
guarantee by WFC Holdings of the obligations of the 
trusts under the trust preferred securities and rank 
subordinate and junior in right of payment to all other 
liabilities of WFC Holdings. The Parent guarantees the 
obligations of WFC Holdings. 

Listed below are the series of trust preferred securities 
of Wells Fargo Capital A, Wells Fargo Capital B, Wells 
Fargo Capital C, Wells Fargo Capital I and Wells Fargo 
Capital II issued at $1,000 per security. The distributions 
are cumulative and payable semi-annually on the first 
day of June and December for Wells Fargo Capital A, 
Wells Fargo Capital B and Wells Fargo Capital C and on 
the fifteenth day of June and December for Wells Fargo 
Capital I. The distributions are cumulative and payable 


quarterly on the 30th of January, April, July and October 
for Wells Fargo Capital II. The trust preferred securities 
are subject to mandatory redemption at the stated 
maturity date of the debentures, upon repayment of 

the debentures, or earlier, pursuant to the terms of the 
Trust Agreement. 

Wells Fargo Capital A: This trust issued $300 
million in trust preferred securities in November 1996 
and concurrently invested $309 million in debentures of 
WEC Holdings with a stated maturity of December 1, 
2026. The Company repurchased $85 million in this 
class of trust preferred securities in the open market in 
1998. The repurchased securities were cancelled and 
the trust decreased its investment by $88 million in 
debentures of WFC Holdings. This class of trust pre- 
ferred securities will accrue semi-annual distributions 
of $40.63 per security (8.13% annualized rate). 

Wells Fargo Capital B: This trust issued $200 
million in trust preferred securities in November 1996 
and concurrently invested $206 million in debentures of 
WFC Holdings with a stated maturity of December 1, 
2026. The Company repurchased $153 million in this 
class of trust preferred securities on the open market in 
1998. The repurchased securities were cancelled and 
the trust decreased its investment by $158 million in 
debentures of WFC Holdings. This class of trust pre- 
ferred securities will accrue semi-annual distributions 
of $39.75 per security (7.95% annualized rate). 

Wells Fargo Capital C: This trust issued $250 
million in trust preferred securities in November 1996 
and concurrently invested $258 million in debentures of 
WFC Holdings with a stated maturity of December 1, 
2026. The Company repurchased $186 million in this 
class of trust preferred securities on the open market in 
1998. The repurchased securities were cancelled and 
the trust decreased its investment by $192 million in 
debentures of WFC Holdings. This class of trust pre- 
ferred securities will accrue semi-annual distributions 
of $38.65 per security (7.73% annualized rate). 


Wells Fargo Capital I: This trust issued $400 
million in trust preferred securities in December 1996 
and concurrently invested $412 million in debentures of 
WFC Holdings with a stated maturity of December 15, 
2026. The Company repurchased $212 million in this 
class of trust preferred securities on the open market in 
1998. The repurchased securities were cancelled and 
the trust decreased its investment by $219 million in 
debentures of WFC Holdings. This class of trust pre- 
ferred securities will accrue semi-annual distributions 
of $39.80 per security (7.96% annualized rate). 

Wells Fargo Capital II: This trust issued $150 
million in trust preferred securities in January 1997 
and concurrently invested $155 million in debentures 
of WFC Holdings with a stated maturity of January 30, 
2027. This class of trust preferred securities will accrue 
quarterly distributions at a variable annual rate of 
LIBOR plus 0.5%. 

On or after December 2006 for Wells Fargo Capital A, 
Wells Fargo Capital B, Wells Fargo Capital C and Wells 
Fargo Capital I and on or after January 2007 for Wells 
Fargo Capital II, each of the series of trust preferred 
securities may be redeemed and the corresponding 
debentures may be prepaid at the option of WFC 
Holdings, subject to Federal Reserve approval, at 
declining redemption prices. Prior to December 2006 
for Wells Fargo Capital A, Wells Fargo Capital B, Wells 
Fargo Capital C and Wells Fargo Capital I and prior to 
January 2007 for Wells Fargo Capital II, the securities 
may be redeemed at the option of WFC Holdings on the 
occurrence of certain events that result in a negative tax 
impact, negative regulatory impact on the trust preferred 
securities of WFC Holdings or negative legal or regulatory 
impact on the appropriate special purpose trust which 
would define it as an investment company. In addition, 
WFC Holdings has the right to defer payment of interest 
on the debentures and, therefore, distributions on the 
trust preferred securities for up to five years. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 71 


vote hl 1 Preferred Stock 


The Company is authorized to issue 20,000,000 shares shares of preference stock are currently outstanding. 
of preferred stock and 4,000,000 shares of preference All preferred shares outstanding rank senior to common 
stock, without par value. Of the 20,000,000 preferred shares both as to dividends and liquidation preference 
shares authorized, there were 6,535,362 shares and but have no general voting rights. 
6,531,405 shares of preferred stock issued and outstand- The following table is a summary of preferred stock 
ing at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. No (adjustable and fixed): 
Shares issued Carrying amount Dividends declared 
and outstanding (in millions) Adjustable (in millions) 
December 31, December 31, dividends rate Year ended December 31, 
1998 1997 1998 1997 Minimum Maximum 1998 1997 1996 
Adjustable-Rate Cumulative, Series B 
(Liquidation preference $50) 1,500,000 1,500,000 $ 75 $ 75 5.5% 10.5% $ 4 $4 $4 
9% Cumulative, Series C 
(Liquidation preference $500)(1) = — — — _— — — — 21 
8-7/8% Cumulative, Series D 
(Liquidation preference $500)(2) — = = _ — — — 3 16 
9-7/8% Cumulative, Series F 
(Liquidation preference $200)(3)(4) —_ — — — _— — — — 12 
9% Cumulative, Series G 
(Liquidation preference $200)(3)(5) a _ —_ — — — — 5 10 


°6.59%/Adjustable-Rate Noncumulative 
Preferred Stock, Series H 


(Liquidation preference $50) 4,000,000 4,000,000 200 200 7.0 13.0 13 13 + 
Cumulative Tracking 

(Liquidation preference $200) 980,000 980,000 196 196 9.30 9.30 18 18 18 
1998 ESOP Cumulative Convertible 

(Liquidation preference $1,000) 8,740 — 9 — 10.75 11.75 — — — 
1997 ESOP Cumulative Convertible 

(Liquidation preference $1,000) 19,698 22:927 20 23 9.50 10.50 — — — 
1996 ESOP Cumulative Convertible 

(Liquidation preference $1,000) 22,068 22,831 22 23 8.50 9.50 — —_— _— 
1995 ESOP Cumulative Convertible 

(Liquidation preference $1,000) 20,130 20,625 20 21 10.0 10.0 — — — 
ESOP Cumulative Convertible 

(Liquidation preference $1,000) 9,726 10,022 10 10 9.0 9.0 _— a — 
Unearned ESOP shares (6) — — (84) (80) — — — _ — 


Less: Cumulative Tracking 


held by subsidiary 


(Liquidation preference $200) 25,000 25,000 5 5 9.30 9.30 _- = — 
Total 6,535,362 6,531,405 $463 $463 $35 $43 $85 
(1) In December 1996, the Company redeemed all $239 million (477,500 shares) (5) In May 1997, the Company redeemed all $150 million (750,000 shares) 
of its Series C preferred stock. of its Series G preferred stock. 
(2) In March 1997, the Company redeemed all $175 million (350,000 shares) (6) In accordance with the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
of its Series D preferred stock. (AICPA) Statement of Position 93-6, “Employers’ Accounting for Employee Stock 
(3) In April 1996, the Series F and Series G preferred stock were converted Ownership Plans,” the Company recorded a corresponding charge to unearned 


ESOP shares in connection with the issuance of the ESOP Preferred Stock. The 
unearned ESOP shares are reduced as shares of the ESOP Preferred Stock are 
committed to be released. For information on dividends declared, see Note 12. 


from First Interstate preferred stock into the right to receive one share of 
the Company’s preferred stock. 


(4) In November 1996, the Company redeemed all $200 million (1,000,000 
shares) of its Series F preferred stock. 


72 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Adjustable-Rate Cumulative Preferred Stock, 
Series B These shares are redeemable at the option 
of the Company at $50 per share plus accrued and 
unpaid dividends. Dividends are cumulative and payable 
quarterly on the 15th of February, May, August and 
November. For each quarterly period, the dividend 
rate is 76% of the highest of the three-month Treasury 
bill discount rate, 10-year constant maturity Treasury 
security yield or 20-year constant maturity Treasury 
bond yield, but limited to a minimum of 5.5% and a 
maximum of 10.5% per year. The average dividend 
rate was 5.5% during 1998, 1997 and 1996. 

6.59%/Adjustable-Rate Noncumulative 
Preferred Stock, Series H These shares are 
redeemable at the option of the Company on or 
after October 1, 2001 at a price of $50 per share 
plus accrued and unpaid dividends. Dividends are 
noncumulative and payable on the first day of each 
calendar quarter at an annualized rate of 6.59% 
through October 1, 2001. The dividend rate after 
October 1, 2001 will be equal to .44% plus the highest 
of the Treasury bill discount rate, the 10-year constant 
maturity rate and the 30-year constant maturity rate, as 
determined in advance of such dividend period, limited 
to a minimum of 7% and a maximum of 13%. 

Cumulative Tracking Preferred Stock 
On December 30, 1994, the Company issued 980,000 
shares of Cumulative Tracking Preferred Stock, $200 
liquidation value per share, of which 25,000 shares 
were held by a subsidiary at December 31, 1998, 1997 
and 1996. Dividends on shares of Cumulative Tracking 
Preferred Stock are cumulative from the date of issue 
and are payable quarterly. The initial dividend rate is 
9.30 percent per annum. The dividend rate is reset on 
January 1, 2000, and on January 1 of each fifth year 
thereafter. The reset rate is the greater of the 5-, 10-, 
or 30-year Treasury rate or three-month LIBOR plus 250 
basis points. At the time of initial issuance of the shares 
of Cumulative Tracking Preferred Stock, the holders 
thereof became assignees of the Company's beneficial 
interest in an equivalent number of Class A preferred 
limited liability company interests of Residential Home 
Mortgage, L.L.C., a subsidiary of the Company. Holders 


of shares of Cumulative Tracking Preferred Stock are 
entitled to receive, in addition to the dividends, certain 
additional cash distributions that are based on the results 
of operations of the limited liability company. The 
shares of Cumulative Tracking Preferred Stock may be 
redeemed after December 31, 1999, at the option of the 
Company. The shares of Cumulative Tracking Preferred 
Stock rank on a parity, both as to payment of dividends 
and the distribution of assets on liquidation, with the 
Company’s ESOP Preferred Stock. The Cumulative 
Tracking Preferred Stock ranks prior, both as to payment 
of dividends and the distribution of assets upon liquida- 
tion, to common stock and, if any, the Company’s junior 
participating preferred stock. At December 31, 1998, 
there were two holders of record of Cumulative Tracking 
Preferred Stock. 

ESOP Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock 
All shares of the Company's 1998 ESOP Cumulative 
Convertible Preferred Stock, 1997 ESOP Cumulative 
Convertible Preferred Stock, 1996 ESOP Cumulative 
Convertible Preferred Stock, 1995 ESOP Cumulative 
Convertible Preferred Stock and ESOP Cumulative 
Convertible Preferred Stock (collectively, ESOP Preferred 
Stock) were issued to a trustee acting on behalf of the 
Norwest Corporation Savings Investment Plan and 
Master Savings Trust (the Plan). Dividends on the 
ESOP Preferred Stock are cumulative from the date 
of initial issuance and are payable quarterly at annual 
rates ranging from 8.50 percent to 11.75 percent, 
depending upon the year of issuance. Each share of 
ESOP Preferred Stock released from the unallocated 
reserve of the Plan is converted into shares of common 
stock of the Company based on the stated value of the 
ESOP Preferred Stock and the then current market price 
of the Company’s common stock. The ESOP Preferred 
Stock is also convertible at the option of the holder at 
any time, unless previously redeemed. The ESOP 
Preferred Stock is redeemable at any time, in whole or 
in part, at the option of the Company at a redemption 
price per share equal to the higher of (a) $1,000 per 
share plus accrued and unpaid dividends and (b) the 
fair market value, as defined in the Certificates of 
Designation of the ESOP Preferred Stock. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 73 


vote hl 2 Common Stock and Stock Plans 


COMMON STOCK 


The table below summarizes common stock reserved, 
issued and authorized as of December 31, 1998: 


Number of shares 


Convertible subordinated 


debentures and warrants (1) 35,962,948 
Dividend reinvestment and 
common stock purchased plans 2,903,154 
Director plans 1,288,212 
Employee stock plans 184,997,869 
Total shares reserved 225,152,183 


1,661,392,590 
2,113,455,227 


4,000,000,000 


Shares issued 
Shares not reserved 


Total shares authorized 


(1) Includes warrants issued by the Company to subsidiaries to purchase shares of 
the Company’s common stock as follows: 8,928,172 shares at $42.50 per share 
in 1996, 11,000,176 shares at $37.50 per share in 1995 and 16,000,000 shares 
at $35.00 per share in 1994. 


Under the terms of mandatory convertible debt, the 
Company must exchange with the noteholder, or sell, 
various capital securities of the Company as described 
in Note 9. 

Each share of the Company’s common stock includes 
one preferred share purchase right. These rights will 
become exercisable only if a person or group acquires or 
announces an offer to acquire 15 percent or more of the 
Company’s common stock. When exercisable, each right 
will entitle the holder to buy one one-thousandth of a 
share of a new series of junior participating preferred 
stock at a price of $160 for each one one-thousandth of 
a preferred share. In addition, upon the occurrence of 
certain events, holders of the rights will be entitled to 
purchase either the Company’s common stock or shares 
in an “acquiring entity” at one-half of the then current 
market value. The Company will generally be entitled 
to redeem the rights at one cent per right at any time 
before they become exercisable. The rights will expire 
on November 23, 2008, unless extended, previously 
redeemed or exercised. The Company has reserved 
1.125 million shares of preferred stock for issuance 
upon exercise of the rights. 


"74 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT AND 
COMMON STOCK PURCHASE PLANS 


The Company’s dividend reinvestment and common 
stock direct purchase plans permit participants to 
purchase at fair market value shares of the Company’s 
common stock by reinvestment of dividends and/or 
optional cash payments, subject to the terms of the plans. 


DIRECTOR PLANS 


Under the Company’s director plans, directors 
receive stock as a part of their annual retainer or could 
elect to receive stock options in lieu of an annual cash 
retainer, subject to the terms of the respective plans. 
Another plan provides for annual grants of options to 
purchase common stock to each non-employee director 
elected or re-elected at the annual meeting of stockhold- 
ers. Options granted become exercisable after one year 
and may be exercised until the tenth anniversary of the 
date of grant. Compensation expense for the options is 
measured as the quoted market price of the stock at the 
date of grant less the exercise price and is accrued over 
the vesting period. 


EMPLOYEE STOCK PLANS 


Long-Term Incentive Plans The Company’s stock 
incentive plans provide for awards of incentive and 
nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, 
restricted shares, restricted share rights, performance 
awards and stock awards without restrictions. Employee 
stock options can be granted with exercise prices at or 
above the quoted market price of the stock at the date of 
grant and with terms of up to ten years. The options 
generally become fully exercisable over three years from 
the date of grant. Upon termination of employment for 
reasons other than retirement, permanent disability or 
death, the option period is reduced or the options are 
canceled. Options also may include the right to acquire 
an Accelerated Ownership Non-Qualified Stock Option 
(AO). If an option contains the AO feature and if a 
participant pays all or part of the exercise price of the 
option with shares of stock purchased in the market or 
held by the participant for at least six months, upon 


exercise of the option, the participant is granted an AO 
to purchase, at the quoted market price at the date of the 
AO grant, the number of shares of stock equal to the 
sum of the number of shares used in payment of the 
exercise price and a number of shares with respect to 
taxes. No compensation expense was recorded for the 
options granted under the plans, as the exercise price 
was equal to the quoted market price of the stock at the 
date of grant. The total number of shares of common 
stock available for grant under the plans as of 
December 31, 1998 is 60,528,277. 

Holders of restricted shares and restricted share rights 
are entitled at no cost to the related shares of common 
stock generally five years after the restricted shares or 
restricted share rights were granted. Upon grant of the 
restricted shares or restricted share rights, generally 
holders are entitled to receive quarterly cash payments 
equal to the cash dividends that would be paid on 
common stock equal to the number of restricted shares 
or restricted share rights. Except in limited circumstances, 
restricted shares and restricted share rights are canceled 
upon termination of employment. In 1998, 1997 and 
1996, there were 371,560, 280,020 and 952,330 restrict- 
ed shares and restricted share rights granted, respectively, 
with a weighted-average grant-date fair value of $37.72, 
$30.89 and $23.69, respectively. As of December 31, 
1998, 1997 and 1996, there were 3,086,500, 2,084,540 
and 1,097,000 restricted shares and restricted share rights 
outstanding, respectively. The compensation expense for 
the restricted shares and restricted share rights equals 
the quoted market price of the related stock at the date 
of grant and is accrued on a straight-line basis over the 
vesting period. The total compensation expense recog- 
nized for the restricted shares and restricted share rights 
was $9 million, $11 million and $10 million in 1998, 
1997 and 1996, respectively. 


In connection with various acquisitions and mergers 
since 1992, the Company converted employee and 
director stock options of acquired or merged companies 
into stock options to purchase the Company's common 
stock based on the original stock option plan and the 
agreed-upon exchange ratio. 

Broad-Based Plans In 1996, the Company adopted 
the Best Practices PartnerShares Plan, a broad-based 
employee stock option plan covering full- and part-time 
employees who were not participants in the long-term 
incentive plans described above. The total number of 
shares of common stock issuable under the plan as of 
December 31, 1998 is 56,569,400, including 16,082,000 
shares available for grant. Options granted under the 
PartnerShares Plan have an exercise date that generally 
is the earlier of five years after the date of grant or 
when the quoted market price of the stock exceeds a 
predetermined price. Options generally expire ten years 
after the date of grant. No compensation expense has 
been recorded for the options, as the exercise prices 
were equal to or higher than the quoted market price 
of the Company’s common stock at the respective dates 
of grant. 

The Company also offers participation in the 
Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP). Options to 
purchase 1,318,580 shares of common stock were 
outstanding as of December 31, 1998 under the ESPP. 
Employees of the former Wells Fargo who have 
completed their introductory period of employment, 
except hourly employees, are eligible to participate. 
Certain highly compensated employees may be excluded 
from participation at the discretion of a committee of 
the Board of Directors. The ESPP provides for a purchase 
price of the lower of the quoted market price of the stock 
at the date of grant or 85% to 100% (as determined by 
the Board of Directors for each period) of the quoted 
market price at the end of a one-year period. For the 
current period ending August 31, 1999, the Board 
approved a closing purchase price of 85% of the quoted 
market price. The ESPP is noncompensatory and results 
in no expense to the Company. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75 


The following table summarizes the Company’s stock 
option activity and related information for the three 


years ended December 31, 1998: 


Options outstanding as of 
December 31, 1995 
1996: 

Granted 

Acquired (5) 

Canceled 

Exercised 
Options outstanding as of 
December 31, 1996 
1997: 

Granted 

Canceled 

Exercised 
Options outstanding as of 
December 31, 1997 


1998: 
Granted 


Canceled 
Exercised 
Options outstanding as of 
December 31, 1998 
Outstanding options 
exercisable as of: 
December 31, 1996 
December 31, 1997 
December 31, 1998 


Director Plans 


Number 


335,710 
113,910(1) 


(5,000) 
444,620 


103,890(1) 


(29,230) 
519,280 


84,860(1) 


(102,610) 
501,530 


330,710 
417,920 
434,020 


Weighted- 
average 
exercise 

price 


$ 9.67 


22.57 


Long-Term Incentive Plans 


Number 


47,289,664 


6,568,650(2)(3) 
9,379,334 
(719,358) 
(13,416,038) 


49,102,252 


29,985,212(2)(3) 
(1,356,735) 
(14,801,394) 


62,929,335 


9,695 ,931(2)(3) 
(1,521,074) 
(10,330,783) 


60,773,409 


37,222,532 
33,930,575 
35,990,530 


Weighted- 
average 
exercise 

price 


$11.33 


21.35 

9.33 
14.10 
10.08 


12.59 


30.31 
22.89 
10.30 


21.34 


36.25 
27.08 
15.50 


Broad-Based Plans 


Number 


1,299,800 


11,330,580(4) 


(1,087,990) 
(768,330) 


10,774,060 


23,678,530(4) 
(3,935,110) 
(5,275,570) 


25,241,910 


21,295,860(4) 
(2,866,310) 
(1,865,480) 


41,805,980 


3,315,200 
3,255,200 


(1) The weighted-average per share fair value of options granted was $11.85, $10.26 and $9.05 for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 
(2) The weighted-average per share fair value of options granted was $7.40, $5.08 and $5.10 for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 
(3) Includes 2,094,111, 2,687,762 and 2,680,800 AO grants at December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 

(4) The weighted-average per share fair value of options granted was $5.42, $4.92 and $3.18 for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 
( 


5) Options assumed in connection with the acquisition of First Interstate and Benson Financial Corporation. 


76 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Weighted- 


average 
exercise 
price 


$18.23 


17.43 


17.91 
18.23 


17.42 
30.11 
17.93 
17.57 


29.21 


37.29 
31.22 
21.40 


$33.60 


The following table is a summary of selected 
information for the Company’s stock option plans 
described on the preceding page: 


December 31, 1998 


Weighted- Number Weighted- 
average average 
remainin exercise 
contractua price 
life (in yrs.) 
RANGE OF EXERCISE PRICES 
Director Plans 
$.10 
Options outstanding/exercisable 4.0 29,730 $ .10 
$4.46-$6.69 
Options outstanding el 32,520 6.46 
Options exercisable 27,520 6.43 
$6.70-$10.05 
Options outstanding/exercisable 2.0 45,000 7AS 
$10.06-$15.09 
Options outstanding/exercisable 57 105,570 13.07 
$15.10-$22.65 
Options outstanding 6.9 59,470 16.24 
Options exercisable 46,580 16.03 
$22.66-$33.99 
Options outstanding/exercisable Tel 159,620 25.67 
$34.00-$51.00 
Options outstanding 9.3 69,620 38.19 
Options exercisable 20,000 38.20 
Long-Term Incentive Plans 
$2.24-$3.36 
Options outstanding/exercisable 2.3 83,090 2.51 
$3.37-$5.06 
Options outstanding/exercisable 4.3 285,254 4.62 
$5.07-$7.60 
Options outstanding 2.8 4,197,516 7.22 
Options exercisable 4,188,508 7.22 
$7.61-$11.41 
Options outstanding 4.1 3,321,876 10.70 
Options exercisable 3,319,728 10.70 
$11.42-$17.13 
Options outstanding 5.1 11,450,694 13.84 
Options exercisable 11,295,928 13.84 
$17.14-$25.71 
Options outstanding 6.2 4,495,337 20.60 
Options exercisable 4,430,509 20.56 
$25.72-$38.58 
Options outstanding 8.5 35,970,343 31.57 
Options exercisable 11,566,066 30.82 
$38.59-$57.89 
Options outstanding 6.7 969,299 40.22 
Options exercisable 821,447 40.33 
Broad-Based Plans 
$16.56-$24.84 
Options outstanding/exercisable 7.5. 2,191,000 16.56 
$24.85-$37.81 
Options outstanding 9.0 39,614,980 34.53 


Options exercisable 1,064,200 33.37 


In October 1995, the FASB issued FAS 123, Accounting 
for Stock-Based Compensation. As provided for under 
FAS 123, the Company elected to continue to apply the 
provisions of Accounting Principles Board Opinion 25, 
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, in accounting 
for the stock plans described above. Had compensation 
cost for these stock plans been determined based on the 
(optional) fair value method established by FAS 123, the 
Company’s net income and earnings per common share 
would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts 
indicated below. 


(in millions, except per Year ended December 31, 


common share amounts) 1998 1997 1996 
Net income 
As reported $1,950 $2,499 $2,228 
Pro forma (1) 1,867 2,448 2,210 


Earnings per common share 
As reported $1.18 $150 $ 1.38 
Pro forma (1) 1.13 1.43 1.36 
Diluted earnings per common share 
As reported $1.17 $148 $ 1.36 
Pro forma (1) 1:12 1.42 1.33 


(1) The pro forma amounts noted above only reflect the effects of stock-based 
compensation grants made after 1994. Because stock options may be granted 
each year and generally vest over three years, these pro forma amounts 
may not reflect the full effect of applying the (optional) fair value method 
established by FAS 123 that would be expected if all outstanding stock 
option grants were accounted for under this method. 


The fair value of each option grant is estimated 
based on the date of grant using an option-pricing 
model. The following weighted-average assumptions 
were used in 1998, 1997 and 1996: expected dividend 
yield ranging from 1.4% to 2.2%; expected volatility 
ranging from 20.0% to 29.0%; risk-free interest rates 
ranging from 5.5% to 7.8% and expected life ranging 
from 1 to 5.4 years. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 77 


Employee Stock Ownership Plan The Savings 
Investment Plan (SIP), a defined contribution plan, 
contains Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) 
provisions under which SIP may borrow money to 
purchase the Company’s common or preferred stock. 
Beginning in 1994, the Company has loaned money to 
SIP which has been used to purchase shares of the 
Company’s ESOP Preferred Stock. As ESOP Preferred 
Stock is released and converted into common shares, 
compensation expense is recorded equal to the current 
market price of the common shares. Dividends on the 
common shares allocated as a result of the release and 
conversion of the ESOP Preferred Stock are recorded 
as a reduction of retained earnings and the shares are 
considered outstanding for purposes of earnings per 
share computations. Dividends on the unallocated ESOP 
Preferred Stock are not recorded as a reduction of 
retained earnings, and the shares are not considered to 
be common stock equivalents for purposes of earnings 
per share computations. Loan principal and interest 
payments are made from the Company’s contributions 
to SIP, along with dividends paid on the ESOP Preferred 
Stock. With each principal and interest payment, a 
portion of the ESOP Preferred Stock is released and, 
after conversion of the ESOP Preferred Stock into 
common shares, allocated to SIP participants. 

In 1989, the Company loaned money to SIP which 
was used to purchase shares of the Company’s common 
stock (the 1989 ESOP shares). The Company accounts 
for the 1989 ESOP shares in accordance with AICPA 
Statement of Position 76-3, Accounting Practices for 
Certain Employee Stock Ownership Plans. Accordingly, 
the Company’s ESOP loans to SIP related to the purchase 
of the 1989 ESOP shares are recorded as a reduction 
of stockholders’ equity, and compensation expense 
based on the cost of the shares is recorded as shares 
are released and allocated to participants’ accounts. 
The 1989 ESOP shares are considered outstanding 


78 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


for purposes of earnings per share computations and 
dividends on the shares are recorded as a reduction to 
retained earnings. The 1989 ESOP shares also include 
ESOP shares acquired in conjunction with business 
combinations accounted for under the pooling of 
interests method of accounting. The loans from the 
Company to SIP are repayable in monthly installments 
through April 26, 1999, with interest at 8.45%. Interest 
income on these loans was $1 million in 1998, 1997 and 
1996 and is included as a reduction in employee benefits 
expense. Total interest expense on the Series A and B 
ESOP Notes was $1 million, $1 million and $4 million 
in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Total dividends 
paid to SIP on ESOP shares were as follows: 


(in millions) Year ended December 31, 
1998 1997 1996 
ESOP Preferred Stock: 
Common dividends $ 6 $ 4 $ 3 
Preferred dividends 9 4 3 
1989 ESOP shares: 
Common dividends 11 ee lil =.) 
Tota $26 19 $15 


The ESOP shares as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 
were as follows: 


December 31, 
1998 1997 
ESOP Preferred Stock: 
Allocated shares (common) 8,592,898 7,793,681 
Unreleased shares (preferred) 80,362 76,405 
1989 ESOP shares: 
Allocated shares 15,018,861 15,555,673 
Unreleased shares 320,285 1,053,925 
Fair value of unearned ESOP shares 
(in millions) $80 $76 


vote ll 3 Employee Benefits and Other Expenses 


EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 


The Company’s noncontributory defined benefit pen- 
sion plans cover substantially all full-time employees of 
the former Norwest. The Company also has a defined 
benefit plan acquired as a result of the First Interstate 
Bancorp (First Interstate) acquisition. Pursuant to the 
First Interstate merger agreement, accrued benefits as of 
June 30, 1996 for all participants employed as of March 
28, 1996 became fully vested. Effective June 30, 1996, 
all accrued benefits under the plan were frozen. The 
Company also provides health care and life insurance 
benefits for certain retired employees. The Company 
reserves the right to terminate those benefits at any time. 

The following table shows the changes in the benefit 
obligation and the fair value of plan assets during 1998 
and 1997 and the amounts included in the Company’s 
Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31, 1998 
and 1997 for the Company’s defined benefit pension 
and other postretirement benefit plans: 


(in millions) December 31, 
1998 1997 
Pension Other Pension Other 
benefits —_ benefits benefits benefits 
Change in benefit 
obligation 
Benefit obligation at 
beginning of year $2,141 $ 457 $1,903 $ 424 
Service cost 67 18 49 14 
Interest cost 151 33 141 29 
Plan participants’ 
contributions — 5 _ 7 
Amendments 1 — — = 
Actuarial loss 231 58 144 15 
Acquisitions 5 = _ — 
Benefits paid (109) (35) (96) (32) 
Benefit abla 
at end of year $2,487 $ 536 $2,141 $ 457 
Change in plan assets 
Fair value of plan assets 
at beginning of year $2,521 $ 140 $2,100 $124 
Actual return 
on plan assets 115 12 477 17 
Acquisitions 4 _— _ _— 
Employer contribution 17 96 40 24 
Plan participants’ 
contributions — 5 — Z 
Benefits paid (109) (35) (96) (32) 
Fair value of plan assets 
at end of year $2,548 $218 $2,521 $ 140 
Funded status $ 61 $(318) $ 380 $(317) 
Unrecognized net 
actuarial gain (48) (5) (350) (52) 
Unrecognized net 
transition asset (7) = (9) — 
Unrecognized prior 
service cost Z 1 Z = 
Prepaid (accrued) 
benefit cost $ 13 $(322) $28 $(369) 


The following table sets forth the components of 
net periodic benefit cost for 1998, 1997 and 1996: 


(in millions) Year ended December 31, 
1998 1997 1996 
Pension Other Pension Other Pension Other 
benefits benefits benefits benefits benefits benefits 
Service cost $ 67 $18 $ 49 $14 §$ 50 $14 
Interest cost 151 33 141 29 110 27 
Expected return 
on plan assets (205) (11) (174) += (10)~—Ss (132)—Ss((8) 
Recognized 
net actuarial 
(gain) loss (1) 21 (1) 13 (9) (3) (5) 
Amortization of 
prior service cost 1 — 1 _ _ = 
Amortization of 
unrecognized 
transition asset _(2) _= _(2) _= _(2) _= 
Net periodic 
benefit cost $ 33 $39 $ 28 $24 $23 $28 


(1) Net gains and losses are generally amortized over five years. 


The weighted-average assumptions used in calculating 
the amounts above were: 


Year ended December 31, 


1998 1997 
Pension Other Pension Other 
benefits —_ benefits benefits benefits 
Discount rate 6.5% 6.5% 7.0% 6.9%-7.0% 
Expected return 
on plan assets 8.5%-9.0% 9.0%  8.5%-9.0% 5.4% 
Rate of compensation 
increase 5.0% —% 5.0% —% 


Accounting for the health care plans uses a health 
care cost trend rate to recognize the effect of expected 
changes in future health care costs due to medical infla- 
tion, utilization changes, technological changes, regulatory 
requirements and Medicare cost shifting. Average annual 
increases of 5.5% for HMOs and 9.0% to 10.0% for all 
other types of coverage in the per capita cost of covered 
health care benefits were assumed for 1999. By 2006 and 
thereafter, rates were assumed to remain level for HMOs 
at 5.5% and for all other types of coverage at 5.5% to 
8.0%. Increasing the assumed health care trend by one 
percentage point in each year would increase the benefit 
obligation as of December 31, 1998 by $62 million and 
the aggregate of the interest cost and service cost compo- 
nents of the net periodic benefit cost for 1998 by $8 
million. Decreasing the assumed health care trend by one 
percentage point in each year would decrease the benefit 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 79 


obligation as of December 31, 1998 by $53 million and 
the aggregate of the interest cost and service cost compo- 
nents of the net periodic benefit cost for 1998 by $6 mil- 
lion. 

The Company sponsors two primary defined contribu- 
tion plans. Expenses for all defined contribution plans 
were $174 million, $174 million, and $143 million in 
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 


OTHER EXPENSES 


The table to the right shows expenses which exceeded 
1% of total interest income and noninterest income and 
which are not otherwise shown separately in the financial 
statements or notes thereto. 


vote hl : Income Taxes 


(in millions) Year ended December 31, 
1998 1997 1996 
Outside professional services $391 $262 $254 
Contract services 342 271 329 
Donations 257 44 20 
Telecommunications 252 241 234 
Outside data processing 250 217 216 
Advertising and promotion 237 202 234 
Postage 228 210 206 
Travel and entertainment 212 188 188 
Stationery and supplies 178 182 192 


The following is a summary of the components 
of income tax expense applicable to income before 
income taxes: 


(in millions) Year ended December 31, 
1998 1997 1996 
Current: 
Federal $1,201 $1,242 $ 874 
State and local 272 246 161 
Foreign (1) 33 37 
1,472 1,521 1,072 
Deferred: 
Federal (82) 147 371 
State and local (32) 37 100 
Foreign (15) (11) (4) 
(129) 173 467 
Total $1,343 $1,694 1,539 


80 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


The Company’s tax benefit related to the exercise of 
employee stock options that were allocated to stockhold- 
ers’ equity was $90 million, $93 million and $37 million 
for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. 

The Company had a net deferred tax liability of 
$177 million and $163 million at December 31, 1998 
and 1997, respectively. The tax effect of temporary 
differences that gave rise to significant portions of 
deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 1998 
and 1997 are presented below: 


(in millions) Year ended December 31, 
1998 1997 
Deferred Tax Assets 
Allowance for loan losses $1,143 $1,087 
Net tax-deferred expenses 1,325 1,187 
Other 271 365 
Total deferred tax assets 23739 2,589 
Deferred Tax Liabilities 
Core deposit intangible 498 624 
Leasing 878 763 
Mark to market 201 122 
Mortgage servicing 871 747 
FAS 115 adjustment 278 271 
Other 190 225 
Total deferred tax liabilities 2,916 2752 
Net Deferred Tax Liability $ (177) $ (163) 


The Company has determined that it is not required to 
establish a valuation reserve for any of the deferred tax 
assets since it is more likely than not that these assets 
will be principally realized through carryback to taxable 
income in prior years, and future reversals of existing 
taxable temporary differences, and, to a lesser extent, 
future taxable income and tax planning strategies. The 
Company’s conclusion that it is “more likely than not” 
that the deferred tax assets will be realized is based 
on federal taxable income of nearly $6 billion in the 
carryback period, substantial state taxable income in 


the carryback period, as well as a history of growth 
in earnings and the prospects for continued growth. 

The deferred tax liability related to unrealized gains 
and losses on securities available for sale had no impact 
on 1998, 1997 or 1996 income tax expense as these gains 
and losses, net of taxes, were recorded in cumulative other 
comprehensive income. 

The following table is a reconciliation of the statutory 
federal income tax expense and rate to the effective 
income tax expense and rate: 


Year ended December 31, 


(in millions) 
Amount 
Statutory federal income tax expense and rate $1,153 
Change in tax rate resulting from: 
State and local taxes on income, net of 
federal income tax benefit 156 
Amortization of goodwill not 
deductible for tax return purposes 125 
Tax exempt income (57) 
Other G4) 
Effective income tax expense and rate $1,343 


1998 1997 1996 
% Amount % Amount % 
35.0% $1,468 35.0% $1,320 35.0% 
4.7 162 3.8 155 41 
3.8 151 3.6 118 Bil 
(1.7) (37) (.9) (27) (:7) 
(1.0) (50) (1.1) (27) (.Z) 
40.8% 1,694 40.4% $1,539 40.8% 


The Company has not recognized a federal deferred tax 
liability of $36 million on $102 million of undistributed 
earnings of a foreign subsidiary because such earnings are 
indefinitely reinvested in the subsidiary and are not tax- 
able under current law. A deferred tax liability would be 
recognized to the extent the Company changed its intent 


to not indefinitely reinvest a portion or all of such 
undistributed earnings. In addition, a current tax 
liability would be recognized if the Company recovered 
those undistributed earnings in a taxable manner, such 
as through the receipt of dividends or sale of the entity, 
or if the tax law changed. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 81 


vote ll 5 Earnings per Common Share 


The table below shows dual presentation of earnings share and a reconciliation of the numerator and denomi- 
per common share and diluted earnings per common nator of both earnings per common share calculations. 
(in millions, except per share amounts) Year ended December 31, 

1998 1997 1996 
Net income $ 1,950 $ 2,499 $ 2,228 
Less: Preferred stock dividends 35 43 85 
Net income applicable to common stock $1,915: $2,456 $ 2,143 
EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE 
Net income applicable to common stock (numerator) 1,915 $ 2,456 2,143 
Average common shares outstanding (denominator) 1,621.5 1,634.6 1,553.3 
Per share 1.18 $ 1.50 1,38 
DILUTED EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE 
Net income applicable to common stock (numerator) 1,915 $2,456 2,143 
Average common shares outstanding 1,621.5 1,634.6 1,553.3 
Add: Stock options 18.3 20.6 14.3 
Restricted share rights 2.0 2.6 2:9 
Diluted average common shares outstanding (denominator) 1,641.8 1,657.8 1,570.5 
Per share 1.17 $1.48 $1.36 


82 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


vote hl és Comprehensive Income 


On January 1, 1998, the Company adopted 
FAS 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income. The 
Statement requires that a company classify items of 
other comprehensive income (and the related tax effect) 
by their nature (e.g., unrealized gains or losses on 
securities and foreign currency translation adjustments) 
in a financial statement. 

The following table presents the related tax effect allo- 
cated to each component of other comprehensive income: 


(in millions) Before Tax Net of 


tax effect tax 
amount 
1996: 
Translation adjustments $ (1) $ — $ (1) 


Unrealized losses on securities 
available for sale arising 
during the year (39) (20) (19) 
Reclassification adjustment for 
ains on securities available 


or sale included in net income (12) (5) (7) 
Net unrealized losses arising 

during the year (51) (25) (26) 
Other comprehensive income $ (52) $ (25) $ (27) 
1997: 
Translation adjustments 3 $ — $ 1 


Unrealized gains on securities 
available for sale arising 
during the year 339 133 206 
Reclassification adjustment for 
ains on securities available 


or sale included in net income (99) (40) (59) 
Net unrealized gains arising 

during the year 240 93 147 
Other comprehensive income $241 $ 93 $148 
1998: 
Translation adjustments $_ (6) Ss (2) $ (4) 


Unrealized gains on securities 
available for sale arising 
during the year 172 68 104 
Reclassification adjustment for 
ains on securities available 
or sale included in net income 169) (68) (101) 
Net unrealized gains arising 
during the year — 
z 


Other comprehensive income 


EL 


The following table presents cumulative other 
comprehensive income balances: 


(in millions) 


Balance, December 31, 1995 


Net change 
Balance, December 31, 1996 


Net change 
Balance, December 31, 1997 


Net change 
Balance, December 31, 1998 


Translation 
adjustments 


Unrealized Cumulative 
gains (losses) other 
on securities comprehensive 
income 

$353 $343 

(26) (27) 

327 316 

147 148 

474 464 

3 1) 

$477 463 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 83 


vote ll y Operating Segments 


(income/expense in millions, Community Wholesale Mortgage Norwest Reconciliation Consolidated 
average i a in billions) Banking Banking Banking Financial column (7) Company 
1998 

Net interest income (1) $6,192 $1,344 $ 254 $ 1,303 $ (103) $ 8,990 
Provision for loan losses (2) 653 148 | 752 (12) 1,545 
Noninterest income (3) 4,186 892 1,078 303 (32) 6,427 
Noninterest expense (3) 7,109 787 986 878 _819 10,579 
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 2,616 1,301 342 (24) (942) 3,293 
Income tax expense (benefit) (4) 972 521 125 (5) (270) 1,343 
Net income (loss) $1,644 $ 780 $ 217 $ (19) $ (672) 1,950 
1997 

Net interest income (1) $6,313 $1,343 $ 69 $ 1,167 $ (244) $ 8,648 
Provision for loan losses (2) 752, 156 18 532. (118) 1,140 
Noninterest income (3) 3,579 877 961 303 (45) 5,675 
Noninterest expense (3) 5,750 731 774 758 977 8,990 
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 3,390 1,333 238 380 (1,148) 4,193 
Income tax expense (benefit) (4) 1,309 541 87 138 (381) 1,694 
Net income (loss) $2,081 $. 792 $ 151 $ 242 $ (767) $ 2,499 
1996 

Net interest income (1) $5,655 $1,307 $ 98 $ 1,067 $ 95 $ 8,222 
Provision for loan losses (2) 652 141 1 247 (541) 500 
Noninterest income (3) 2,867 713 874 280 35 4,769 
Noninterest expense (3) 5,451 650 778 692 1,153 8,724 
Income (loss) before income tax expense (benefit) 2,419 1,229 193 408 (482) 3,767 
Income tax expense (benefit) (4) 952 499 68 143 (123) 1,539 
Net income (loss) $1,467 $ 730 $ 125 $ 265 $ (359) 2,228 
1998 

Average loans $ 64 $ 32 S$ 1 $ 9) $ — $ 106 
Average assets 97 39 23 11 18 188 
Average core deposits 110 9 5 _ _ 124 
Return on equity (5) 24% 23 % 16 % —% —% 10% 
Risk-adjusted efficiency ratio (6) 69 % 35 % 74% 55 % —% —% 
1997 

Average loans $ 65 $ 30 $ 1 $ 8 _—— $ 104 
Average assets 100 37 13 9 23 182 
Average core deposits 107 10 3 — _— 120 
Return on equity (5) 22 % 25 % 18 % 20 % —% 13% 
Risk-adjusted efficiency ratio (6) 58 % 33 % 75 % 52 % —% —% 


(1) Net interest income is the primary source of income for most of the operating segments. Net interest income is the difference between actual interest earned on assets (and 
interest paid on liabilities) owned by a group and a funding charge (and credit) based on the Company’s cost of funds. Operating segments are charged a cost to fund any 
assets (e.g., loans) and are paid a funding credit for any funds provided (e.g., deposits). The interest spread is the difference between the interest rate earned on an asset or 
paid on a liability and the Company’s cost of funds rate. (Mortgage Banking’s net interest income comprises interest revenue of $1,023 million, $549 million and $567 
million for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, and interest expense of $769 million, $480 million and $469 million for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.) 

(2) The provision allocated to the operating segments is based on actual provisions and adjusted in certain lines of business for management's current assessment of what 
would have been a normalized net charge-off ratio for these businesses. In any particular year, the actual net charge-offs can be higher or lower than the normalized 
provision allocated to those operating segments that were adjusted. The difference between the normalized provision and the Company provision for these lines of 
business are included in the reconciling column. 

(3) Community Banking’s charges to the product groups are shown as noninterest income (intersegment revenues) to the physical distribution channels and noninterest 
expense (intersegment expenditures) to the other operating segments. They amounted to $35 million in 1998 and 1997, and none in 1996. These charges are eliminated in 
the reconciliation column in arriving at the Consolidated Company totals for noninterest income and expense. All other noninterest revenues and expenses are derived 
from external sources. 

(4) Businesses are taxed at the Company’s marginal (statutory) tax rate, adjusted for any nondeductible expenses. The differences between the marginal and effective tax rate 
are in the reconciliation column. 

(5) Equity is allocated to the operating segments based on an assessment of the inherent risk associated with each business so that the returns on allocated equity are on a 
risk-adjusted basis and comparable across operating segments. 

(6) The risk-adjusted efficiency ratio is defined as noninterest expense plus the cost of capital divided by revenues (net interest income and noninterest income) less normalized 
loan losses. 

(7) The material items in the reconciliation column related to the revenue (i.e., net interest income plus noninterest income) and net income consist of Treasury activities, 
eliminations and unallocated items. Revenue includes Treasury activities of $125 million, $87 million and $185 million; eliminations of $(101) million, $(127) million 
and $(2) million; and unallocated items of $(159) million, $(249) million, and $(53) million for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Net income includes Treasury activities 
of $64 million, $46 million and $107 million; eliminations of $(39) million, $(54) million and $(27) million; and unallocated items of $(697) million, $(759) million and 
$(439) million for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The material items in the reconciliation column related to noninterest expense include goodwill and nonqualifying 
CDI amortization of $549 million, $566 million and $484 million for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The material items in the reconciliation column related to 
average assets include investment securities in Treasury of $10 billion and $14 billion and goodwill and nonqualifying CDI of $8 billion and $9 billion for 1998 
and 1997, respectively. 


84 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


The Company has identified four distinct lines of 
business for the purposes of management reporting: 
Community Banking, Wholesale Banking, Mortgage 
Banking and Norwest Financial. The results are 
determined based on the Company’s management 
accounting process, which assigns balance sheet and 
income statement items to each responsible operating 
segment. This process is dynamic and somewhat 
subjective. Unlike financial accounting, there is no 
comprehensive, authoritative body of guidance for 
management accounting equivalent to generally accept- 
ed accounting principles. The management accounting 
process measures the performance of the operating 
segments based on the management structure of the 
Company and is not necessarily comparable with 
similar information for any other financial institution. 
The Company’s operating segments are defined by 
product type and customer segments. Changes in 
management structure and/or the allocation process 
may result in changes in allocations, transfers and 
assignments. In that case, results for prior periods 
would be restated to allow comparability. Internal 
expense allocations are independently negotiated 
between operating segments and, where possible, 
service and price is measured against comparable 
services available in the external marketplace. 

The Community Banking Group offers a complete 
line of diversified financial products and services for con- 
sumers and small businesses including retail and trust 
services. These services include retail and business banking 
services, consumer checking, lines of credit and direct 
installment loans and residential mortgage products. 
Community Banking offers a full array of consumer loan 
products, including credit cards, transportation (auto, 
recreational vehicle, marine) financing, home equity 
lines and loans, lines of credit and installment loans. 
Community Banking, through affiliates, also offers 
insurance, securities brokerage, and investment banking 
services. Community Banking offers consumer and 
business deposit products, which include checking and 
savings deposits. Community Banking provides access to 
customers through a wide range of channels. The Group 
encompasses a network of traditional banking stores, 
banking centers, in-store banking centers, business 
centers and ATMs. Community Banking serves con- 
sumers and small business customers through its 24-hour 
telephone centers, the Telephone Banking Centers and 
the National Business Banking Center. Online banking 
services include Wells Fargo’s Online Financial Services, 
the Company’s personal computer banking service, and 
Business Gateway, a personal computer banking service 
exclusively for the small business customer. 

A full range of credit products and financial services 
are offered to small businesses and their owners. 

These include lines of credit, receivables and inventory 
financing, equipment loans and leases, real estate 


financing, SBA financing, cash management, deposit 
and investment accounts, payroll services, retirement 
plans, medical savings accounts and credit and debit 
card processing. Community Banking customers are 
individual consumers and small businesses with annual 
sales up to $10 million in which the owner is also the 
principal financial decision maker. 

Community Banking distributes credit products in all 
50 states and Canada through national direct marketing 
and 140 commercial loan specialists in small business 
lending offices in 22 markets in the western United 
States. Community Banking jointly owns a merchant 
card processing alliance with First Data Corp. which 
acquires customers through a 150-person sales force. 

The Community Banking Group is also responsible 
for the sales and management of savings and investment 
products, investment management and fiduciary and 
brokerage services to institutions, retail customers 
and high net worth individuals. This includes the 
Stagecoach and Advantage family of mutual funds 
as well as personal trust, employee benefit trust and 
agency assets. It also includes product management 
for market rate accounts, savings deposits, Individual 
Retirement Accounts (IRAs) and time deposits. Within 
this Group, Private Client Services operates as a fully 
integrated financial services organization focusing on 
banking/credit, trust services, investment management 
and full-service and discount brokerage. 

The Wholesale Banking Group serves businesses 
with annual sales in excess of $5 million and maintains 
relationships with major corporations throughout the 
United States. The Wholesale Banking Group provides 
a complete line of commercial and corporate banking 
services. These include traditional commercial loans and 
lines, letters of credit, international trade facilities, for- 
eign exchange services, cash management and electronic 
products. It includes the majority ownership interest in 
the Wells Fargo HSBC Trade Bank which provides trade 
and Eximbank (a public corporation offering export 
finance support programs for American-made products) 
financing, letters of credit and collection services. The 
Group also supports the commercial real estate market 
with products and services such as equipment leasing, 
construction loans for commercial and residential devel- 
opment, land acquisition and development loans, 
secured and unsecured lines of credit, interim financing 
arrangements for completed structures, rehabilitation 
loans, affordable housing loans and letters of credit. 
Secondary market services are provided through the Real 
Estate Capital Markets Group. Its business includes 
senior loan financing, mezzanine financing, financing for 
leveraged transactions, purchasing distressed real estate 
loans and high yield debt, origination of permanent 
loans for securitization, loan syndications and commer- 
cial real estate loan servicing. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 85 


The Mortgage Banking Group is comprised of 
Norwest Mortgage Banking. The group’s activities 
include the origination and purchase of residential 
mortgage loans for sale to various investors as well as 
providing servicing of mortgage loans for others. 

Norwest Financial includes consumer finance and 
auto finance operations. Consumer finance operations 
make direct loans to consumers and purchase sales 
finance contracts from retail merchants from offices 
throughout the United States, Canada, the Caribbean and 
Latin America. Automobile finance operations specialize 
in purchasing sales finance contracts directly from auto- 
mobile dealers and making loans secured by automobiles 
in the United States and Puerto Rico. Credit cards are 
issued to its consumer finance customers through two 


al & Mortgage Banking Activities 


credit card banks. Norwest Financial also provides 
accounts receivable, lease, and other commercial financ- 
ing and provides information services to the consumer 
finance industry. 

The Reconciliation Column includes the Company’s 
investment securities portfolio, goodwill and the nonqual- 
ifying core deposit intangible, the difference between 
the normalized provision for the line groups and the 
Company provision for loan losses, the net impact of 
transfer pricing loan and deposit balances, the cost of 
external debt, the elimination of intergroup noninterest 
income and expense, and any residual effects of unallo- 
cated systems and other support groups. It also includes 
the impact of asset/liability strategies the Company has 
put in place to manage interest rate sensitivity at the 
enterprise level. 


Mortgage banking activities include Norwest 
Mortgage Banking and certain mortgage banking 
activities in other operating segments. The following 
table presents the components of mortgage banking 
noninterest income: 


(in millions) Year ended December 31, 
1998 1997 1996 

Origination and other closing fees $ 530 $314 $305 
Servicing fees, net of amortization 19 324 318 
Net gains (losses) on sales 

of servicing rights 16 (8) 57 
Net gains on sales 

of mortgages 296 120 13 
Other 245 177 131 


Total mortgage banking 
noninterest income 


$1,106 $927 $844 


Mortgage loans serviced for others are not included 
in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The 
outstanding balances of serviced loans were $245 billion, 
$230 billion and $202 billion at December 31, 1998, 
1997 and 1996, respectively. 


86 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


The following table summarizes the changes in 
capitalized mortgage loan servicing rights: 


Year ended December 31, 


(in millions) 
1998 1997 1996 
Balance, beginning of year $3,112 $2,957 $1,443 
Originations 756 361 361 
Purchases 720 462 1,624 
Sales (346) (34) (72) 
Amortization (816) (513) (364) 
Other (282) (121) (35) 
3,144 3,112 2,957 
Less valuation allowance 64 64 65 
Balance, end of year $3,080 $3,048 $2,892 


The fair value of capitalized mortgage servicing rights 
included in the consolidated balance sheet at December 
31, 1998 was approximately $3.3 billion, calculated using 
discount rates ranging from 500 to 700 basis points over 
the ten-year U.S. Treasury rate. 

The following table summarizes the changes in 
the valuation allowance for capitalized mortgage 
servicing rights: 


(in millions) Year ended December 31, 
1998 1997 1996 
Balance, beginning of year $64 $65 $64 
Provision for (reversal of) 
capitalized mortgage servicing 
rights in excess of an value — (i) =f 
Balance, end of year $64 $64 $65 


vote o Parent Company 


Condensed financial information of the Parent follows. 
For information regarding the Parent’s long-term debt, 


see Note 9. 


CONDENSED STATEMENT OF INCOME 


(in millions) 


INCOME 
Dividends from subsidiaries: 

Bank 

Nonbank 
Interest income from subsidiaries 
Service fees from subsidiaries 
Noninterest income 

Total income 


EXPENSE 
Interest on: 

Short-term borrowings 

Long-term debt 
Noninterest expense 

Total expense 

Income before income tax benefit 

and undistributed income of subsidiaries 
Income tax benefit (expense) 
Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries 


NET INCOME 


CONDENSED BALANCE SHEET 


(in millions) 


ASSETS 
Cash and due from: 
Subsidiary banks 
Non-affiliates 
Securities available for sale 
Advances to nonbank subsidiaries 
Loans and advances to subsidiaries: 
Bank 
Nonbank 
Investment in subsidiaries (1): 
Bank 
Nonbank 
Other assets 
Total assets 


LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 


Short-term borrowings 
Other liabilities 
Long-term debt 
Indebtedness to subsidiaries 
Stockholders’ equity 
Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity 


Year ended December 31, 


1998 


1997 1996 
$1,282 $1,292 
343 713 
388 431 
118 113 
152 158 
_2,283 2,707 
153 165 
364 377 
177 96 
694 638 
1,589 2,069 
16 (32) 
894 —191 
$2,499 2,228 
December 31, 

1998 1997 

$ 678 $ 548 
5 2 
1,541 L191 
6,800 5,590 
10 10 
2,631 1,562 
19,642 18,045 
1,862 2,009 
1,603 12:35 
$34,772 $30,192 
$5,418 $ 3,574 
L279 658 
6,010 5,805 
1,296 367 
20,769 19,788 
$34,772 $30,192 


(1) The double leverage ratio, which represents the ratio of the Parent’s total equity investment in subsidiaries to its total stockholders’ equity, was 104% and 101% at 


December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 87 


CONDENSED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 


(in millions) 


Cash flows from operating activities: 
Net income 
Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash 
provided by operating activities: 
Equity in undistributed income of subsidiaries 
Depreciation and amortization 
Securities available for sale (gains) losses 
Release of preferred shares to ESOP 
Other assets, net 
Accrued expenses and other liabilities 


Net cash provided by operating activities 


Cash flows from investing activities: 


Securities available for sale: 
Proceeds from sales 


Proceeds from prepayments and maturities 
Purchases 
Advances to non-bank subsidiaries 
Principal collected on notes/loans of subsidiaries 
Capital notes and term loans made to subsidiaries 
Net increase in investment in subsidiaries 


Net cash used by investing activities 


Cash flows from financing activities: 


Net increase in short-term borrowings 
and indebtedness to subsidiaries 


Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt 
Repayment of long-term debt 

Proceeds from issuance of common stock 
Issuance of stock warrants to subsidiaries 
Repurchases of preferred stock 
Repurchases of common stock 

Net decrease in ESOP loans 

Payment of cash dividends 


Net cash provided (used) by financing activities 

Net change in cash and cash equivalents 
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 


1998 


1997 


$2,499 


(894) 
19 

(6) 
34 

(798) 
304 


1,158 


Year ended December 31, 
1996 


$2,228 


88 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Note WFC Holdings Corporation 


WFC Holdings is a wholly owned subsidiary of the 
Parent and the survivor of the Merger with the former 
Wells Fargo. WFC Holdings is the sole stockholder 
of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. The Parent guarantees the 


SUMMARIZED CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 


debt obligations of WFC Holdings. In view of this, the 
summarized assets, liabilities and results of operations 
of WFC Holdings are presented below: 


(in millions) Year ended December 31, 
1998 1997 1996 
Interest income $6,654 $6,904 $6,523 
Interest expense 2,107 2,290 2,002 
Provision for loan losses 670 615 105 
Noninterest income 2914 2,712 2,203 
Noninterest expense 4,818 4,547 4,633 
Income before income tax expense 1,970 2,164 1,986 
Income tax expense 938 1,002 911 
Net income $1,032 $1,162 $1,075 
SUMMARIZED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET 
(in millions) December 31, 
1998 1997 
ASSETS 
Cash and due from banks $ 7,513 $ 8,169 
Securities available for sale 9,737 9,888 
Loans, net 63,721 63,906 
Other assets 17,185 15,541 
Total assets $98,156 $97,504 
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDER’S EQUITY 
Short-term borrowings $ 1,473 $3,825 
Long-term debt 3,729 4,568 
Other liabilities 78,341 74,990 
Guaranteed preferred beneficial interest 
in Company’s subordinated debentures 785 1299 
Stockholder’s equity 13,828 12,822 
Total liabilities and stockholder’s equity $98,156 $97,504 


Note Legal Actions 


In the normal course of business, the Company is at all 
times subject to numerous pending and threatened legal 


actions, some for which the relief or damages sought 
are substantial. After reviewing pending and threatened 
actions with counsel, management believes that the 
outcome of such actions will not have a material adverse 
effect on stockholders' equity of the Company; the 


Company is not able to predict whether the outcome 
of such actions may or may not have a material adverse 
effect on results of operations in a particular future 
period as the timing and amount of any resolution of 
such actions and its relationship to the future results 

of operations are not known. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 89 


Note 2 2 Risk-Based Capital 


The Company and each of the subsidiary banks are sub- 
ject to various regulatory capital adequacy requirements 
administered by the FRB and the OCC, respectively. The 
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act 
of 1991 (FDICIA) required that the federal regulatory 
agencies adopt regulations defining five capital tiers for 
banks: well capitalized, adequately capitalized, under- 
capitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically 
undercapitalized. Failure to meet minimum capital 
requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly 
additional discretionary actions by regulators that, if 
undertaken, could have a direct material effect on the 
Company’s financial statements. 

Quantitative measures, established by the regulators to 
ensure capital adequacy, require that the Company and 
each of the subsidiary banks maintain minimum ratios 
(set forth in the table below) of capital to risk-weighted 
assets. There are two categories of capital under the 
guidelines. Tier 1 capital includes common stockholders’ 
equity, qualifying preferred stock and trust preferred 
securities, less goodwill and certain other deductions 
(including the unrealized net gains and losses, after 
applicable taxes, on available-for-sale securities carried 
at fair value). Tier 2 capital includes preferred stock not 
qualifying as Tier 1 capital, mandatory convertible debt, 
subordinated debt, certain unsecured senior debt issued 
by the Parent, the allowance for loan losses and net 
unrealized gains on marketable equity securities, subject 
to limitations by the guidelines. Tier 2 capital is limited 
to the amount of Tier 1 capital (i.e., at least half of the 
total capital must be in the form of Tier 1 capital). 

Under the guidelines, capital is compared to the 
relative risk related to the balance sheet. To derive the risk 
included in the balance sheet, one of four risk weights 


(0%, 20%, 50% and 100%) is applied to the different 
balance sheet and off-balance sheet assets, primarily 
based on the relative credit risk of the counterparty. 
For example, claims guaranteed by the U.S. government 
or one of its agencies are risk-weighted at 0%. Off- 
balance sheet items, such as loan commitments and 
derivative financial instruments, are also applied a risk 
weight after calculating balance sheet equivalent amounts. 
One of four credit conversion factors (0%, 20%, 50% 
and 100%) is assigned to loan commitments based on 
the likelihood of the off-balance sheet item becoming 
an asset. For example, certain loan commitments are 
converted at 50% and then risk-weighted at 100%. 
Derivative financial instruments are converted to balance 
sheet equivalents based on notional values, replacement 
costs and remaining contractual terms. (See Notes 5 and 
23 for further discussion of off-balance sheet items.) 
The capital amounts and classification are also subject 
to qualitative judgments by the regulators about compo- 
nents, risk weightings and other factors. 

Management believes that, as of December 31, 1998, 
the Company and each of the significant subsidiary 
banks met all capital adequacy requirements to which 
they are subject. 

Under the FDICIA prompt corrective action provisions 
applicable to banks, the most recent notification from the 
OCC categorized each of the significant subsidiary banks 
as well capitalized. To be categorized as well capitalized, 
the institution must maintain a total risk-based capital 
ratio as set forth in the following table and not be subject 
to a capital directive order. There are no conditions or 
events since that notification that management believes 
have changed the risk-based capital category of any of 
the significant subsidiary banks. 


(in billions) To be well 
capitalized under 
the FDICIA 
For capital prompt corrective 
Actual adequacy purposes action provisions 
Amount Ratio Amount Ratio Amount Ratio 
As of December 31, 1998: 
Total capital (to risk-weighted assets) 
Wells Fargo & Company $16.7 10.90% >$12.3 >8.00% 
Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. DP aaif 10.02 Se 127 >8.00 >$2.1 >10.00% 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 7.9 11.21 > 5.6 >8.00 > 70 >10.00 
Tier 1 capital (to risk-weighted assets) 
Wells Fargo & Company $12.4 8.08% >$6.1 >4.00% 
Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. 1.8 8.51 > 8 >4.00 >$1.3 > 6.00% 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 5.0 7.18 Ss aS >4.00 4.2 > 6.00 
Tier 1 capital (to average assets) 
(Leverage ratio) 
Wells Fargo & Company $12.4 6.58% >$7.5 >4.00%(1) 
Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. 1.8 6.25 s Ta >4.00 (1) >$1.4 > 5.00% 
Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. 5.0 6.39 = 32 >4.00 (1) > 3.9 > 5.00 


(1) The leverage ratio consists of Tier 1 capital divided by quarterly average total assets, excluding goodwill and certain other items. The minimum leverage ratio guideline is 
3% for banking organizations that do not anticipate significant growth and that have well-diversified risk, excellent asset quality, high liquidity, good earnings, effective 
management and monitoring of market risk and, in general, are considered top-rated, strong banking organizations. 


90 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


Note 2 3 Derivative Financial Instruments 


The Company enters into a variety of financial con- 
tracts, which include interest rate futures and forward 
contracts, interest rate floors and caps, options and 
interest rate swap agreements. The contract or notional 
amount of a derivative is used to determine, along with 
the other terms of the derivative, the amounts to be 
exchanged between the counterparties. It does not in 
itself represent amounts exchanged by the parties and 
therefore is not a measure of exposure through the use 
of derivatives nor of exposure to liquidity risk. The 
Company is primarily an end-user of these instruments. 
The Company also offers contracts to its customers but 
offsets such contracts by purchasing other financial 
contracts or uses the contracts for asset/liability manage- 
ment. To a lesser extent, the Company takes positions 
based on market expectations or to benefit from price 
differentials between financial instruments and markets. 

The Company is exposed to credit risk in the event 
of nonperformance by counterparties to financial instru- 
ments. The Company controls the credit risk of its 


financial contracts except for contracts for which credit 
risk is de minimus through credit approvals, limits and 
monitoring procedures. Credit risk related to derivative 
financial instruments is considered and, if material, 
provided for separately from the allowance for loan 
losses. As the Company generally enters into transactions 
only with high quality counterparties, losses associated 
with counterparty nonperformance on derivative 
financial instruments have been immaterial. Further, 
the Company obtains collateral where appropriate and 
uses master netting arrangements in accordance with 
FASB Interpretation No. 39, Offsetting of Amounts 
Related to Certain Contracts, as amended by FASB 
Interpretation No. 41, Offsetting of Amounts Related to 
Certain Repurchase and Reverse Repurchase Agreements. 
The following table summarizes the aggregate notional 
or contractual amounts, credit risk amount and net fair 
value for the Company’s derivative financial instruments 
at December 31, 1998 and 1997. 


(in millions) December 31, 
1998 1997. 
Notional or Credit Estimated Notional or Credit Estimated 
contractual risk fair contractual risk fair 
amount amount (3) value amount amount (3) value 
ASSET/LIABILITY MANAGEMENT 
HEDGES 
Interest rate contracts: 
Swaps (1) $24,429 $735 $686 $24,052 $424 $364 
Futures 62,348 _ — 10,949 — — 
Floors and caps (1) 33,598 504 504 35,344 350 350 
Options (2) 25,822 112 101 11,168 12 41 
Forwards (1) 41,283 11 (58) 27,507 6 (29) 
Foreign exchange contracts: 
Forward contracts (1) 168 — (1) 548 1 (5) 
CUSTOMER ACCOMMODATIONS 
Interest rate contracts: 
Swaps (1) 7,795 81 10 4,297 17 3 
Futures 8,440 — _— 2,404 — oa 
Floors and caps purchased (1) 5,619 42 42 4,448 22 22 
Floors and caps written 5,717 —_ (42) 4,567 _ (24) 
Options purchased (1) _— — — 77 _ _— 
Options written _ _ _ 27 — _ 
Forwards (1) 850 24 4 59 z) 2 
Commodity contracts: 
Swaps (1) 78 4 _— 10 1 _ 
Floors and caps purchased (1) 4 _— —- 7 — — 
Floors and caps written 4 — — 10 — — 
Foreign exchange contracts: 
Forwards and spots (1) 3,524 37 2 2,966 50 4 
Options purchased (1) 44 2 2 116 — _— 
Options written 43 — (2) 114 _— — 


(1) The Company anticipates performance by substantially all of the counterparties for these or the underlying financial instruments. 
(2) At December 31, 1997 the options contracts were substantially options on futures contracts which are exchange traded for which the exchange assumes the 


counterparty risk. 


(3) Credit risk amounts reflect the replacement cost for those contracts in a gain position in the event of nonperformance by counterparties. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91 


Interest rate futures and forward contracts are con- 
tracts in which the buyer agrees to purchase and the seller 
agrees to make delivery of a specific financial instrument 
at a predetermined price or yield. These contracts may 
be settled either in cash or by delivery of the underlying 
financial instrument. Futures contracts are standardized 
and are traded on exchanges. Gains and losses on futures 
contracts are settled daily with the exchange based on a 
notional principal value. The exchange assumes the risk 
that a counterparty will not pay and generally requires 
margin payments to minimize such risk. Market risks 
arise from movements in interest rates and security val- 
ues. The Company uses 90- to 120-day futures contracts 
on Eurodollar deposits and U.S. Treasury notes to shorten 
the interest rate maturity of deposits ($5 billion at 
December 31, 1998) and to reduce the price risk of 
interest-sensitive assets ($57 billion at December 31, 
1998), primarily mortgage servicing rights. Initial margin 
requirements on futures contracts are provided by invest- 
ment securities pledged as collateral. 

Interest rate floors and caps are interest rate protection 
instruments that involve the payment from the seller to 
the buyer of an interest differential. This differential 
represents the difference between a short-term rate 
(e.g., three-month LIBOR) and an agreed-upon rate, 
the strike rate, applied to a notional principal amount. 
By purchasing a floor, the Company will be paid the 
differential by a counterparty, should the current 
short-term rate fall below the strike level of the agree- 
ment. The Company generally receives cash quarterly 
on purchased floors (when the current interest rate falls 
below the strike rate) and purchased caps (when the 
current interest rate exceeds the strike rate). The primary 
risk associated with purchased floors and caps is the 
ability of the counterparties to meet the terms of the 
contract. Of the total purchased floors and caps for 
asset/liability management of $34 billion at December 31, 
1998, the Company had $14 billion of floors to protect 
variable-rate loans from a drop in interest rates. The 
Company also uses purchased floors and caps of $17 
billion at December 31, 1998 to hedge mortgage servicing 
rights. Cash flows from the floors and caps offset lost 
future servicing revenue caused by increased levels of 
loan prepayments associated with lower interest rates. 
The remaining purchased floors and caps of $3 billion 
at December 31, 1998 were used to hedge interest rate 
risk of various other specific assets and liabilities. 

Interest rate swap contracts are entered into primarily 
as an asset/liability management strategy to reduce inter- 
est rate risk. Interest rate swap contracts are exchanges 


92 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


of interest payments, such as fixed-rate payments for 
floating-rate payments, based on a notional principal 
amount. Payments related to the Company’s swap 
contracts are made either monthly, quarterly or 
semi-annually by one of the parties depending on the 
specific terms of the related contract. The primary risk 
associated with all swaps is the exposure to movements 
in interest rates and the ability of the counterparties to 
meet the terms of the contract. At December 31, 1998, 
the Company had $24 billion of interest rate swaps out- 
standing for interest rate risk management purposes on 
which the Company receives payments based on fixed 
interest rates and makes payments based on variable 
rates (e.g., three-month LIBOR). Included in this 
amount, $14 billion was used to convert floating-rate 
loans into fixed-rate assets. The remaining swap 
contracts used for interest rate risk management of $10 
billion at December 31, 1998 were used to hedge interest 
rate risk of various other specific assets and liabilities. 

Options are contracts that grant the purchaser, for a 
premium payment, the right, but not the obligation, to 
either purchase or sell the underlying financial instrument 
at a set price during a period or at a specified date in 
the future. The writer of the option is obligated to pur- 
chase or sell the underlying financial instrument, if the 
purchaser chooses to exercise the option. The writer of 
the option receives a premium when the option is entered 
into and bears the risk of an unfavorable change in the 
price of the underlying financial instrument. Of the total 
options for asset/liability management of $26 billion 
at December 31, 1998, the Company had $12 billion 
of options on futures contracts hedging mortgage servic- 
ing rights. The futures exchange assumes the risk that 
a counterparty will not pay. Market risks arise from 
movements in interest rates and/or security values. The 
remaining options used for interest rate risk management 
of $14 billion at December 31, 1998 were used to hedge 
interest rate risk of various other specific assets. 

The Company has entered into futures contracts and 
mandatory and standby forward contracts, including 
options on futures and forward contracts, to reduce 
interest rate risk on certain mortgage loans held for sale 
and other commitments. For forward contracts, the pri- 
mary risk is the exposure to movements in interest rates 
and the ability of the counterparties to meet the terms of 
the contracts. The net unrealized loss on these futures 
and forward contracts at December 31, 1998 and 1997 
was $12 million and $29 million, respectively. These 
contracts mature within 180 days. 


Note 2 : Fair Value of Financial Instruments 


FAS 107, Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial 
Instruments, requires that the Company disclose estimat- 
ed fair values for its financial instruments. Fair value 
estimates, methods and assumptions set forth below 
for the Company’s financial instruments are made solely 
to comply with the requirements of this Statement and 
should be read in conjunction with the financial state- 
ments and notes in this Annual Report. The carrying 
amounts in the table are recorded in the Consolidated 
Balance Sheet under the indicated captions, except for 
the derivative financial instruments, which are recorded 
in the specific asset or liability balance being hedged or 
in other assets if the derivative financial instrument is a 
customer accommodation. 

Fair values are based on estimates or calculations using 
present value techniques in instances where quoted market 
prices are not available. Because broadly traded markets 
do not exist for most of the Company’s financial instru- 
ments, the fair value calculations attempt to incorporate 
the effect of current market conditions at a specific time. 
Fair valuations are management's estimates of the values, 
and they are often calculated based on current pricing 


(in millions) 


FINANCIAL ASSETS 

Mortgages held for sale 

Loans, net (1) 

Nonmarketable equity investments 


FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 

Deposits 

Long-term debt (2) 

Guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in 
Company’s subordinated debentures 


DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL 
INSTRUMENTS (3) 
Interest rate contracts: 
Floors and caps purchased 
Floors and caps written 
Options purchased 
Options written 
Swaps 
Forwards 
Foreign exchange contracts 


policy, the economic and competitive environment, the 
characteristics of the financial instruments and other 
such factors. These calculations are subjective in nature, 
involve uncertainties and matters of significant judgment 
and do not include tax ramifications; therefore, the results 
cannot be determined with precision, substantiated by 
comparison to independent markets and may not be 
realized in an actual sale or immediate settlement of the 
instruments. There may be inherent weaknesses in any 
calculation technique, and changes in the underlying 
assumptions used, including discount rates and estimates 
of future cash flows, could significantly affect the results. 
The Company has not included certain material items 
in its disclosure, such as the value of the long-term rela- 
tionships with the Company’s deposit, credit card and 
trust customers, since these intangibles are not financial 
instruments. For all of these reasons, the aggregation of the 
fair value calculations presented herein do not represent, 
and should not be construed to represent, the underlying 
value of the Company. 

The following table presents a summary of the 
Company’s financial instruments, as defined by FAS 107: 


December 31, 


1998 1997 

Carrying Estimated Carrying Estimated 
amount fair value amount fair value 

$ 19,770 $20,015 $ 9,706 $ 9,821 
104,714 105,253 103,091 105,110 
2,392, 2,719 1,860 2,101 
$136,788 $136,719 $127,656 $127,695 
19,673 19,948 17,260 17,293 
785 874 1.299 1,339 

$ 189 $ 546 $ 240 $ 372 
(42) (42) (24) (24) 

154 161 34 64 
(62) (60) (23) (23) 

(24) 696 1 367 

(54) (54) (29) (27) 
1 1 5 (1) 


(1) Loans are net of deferred fees on loan commitments and standby letters of credit of $146 million and $158 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. 


(2) The carrying amount and fair value exclude obligations under capital leases of $36 million and $75 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively. 


(3) The carrying amounts include unamortized fees paid or received, deferred gains or losses and gains or losses on derivative financial instruments receiving 


mark-to-market treatment. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93 


FINANCIAL ASSETS 


SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL ASSETS 


Short-term financial assets include cash and due 
from banks, federal funds sold and securities purchased 
under resale agreements and due from customers on 
acceptances. The carrying amount is a reasonable 
estimate of fair value because of the relatively short 
period of time between the origination of the instrument 
and its expected realization. 


SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE 


Securities available for sale at December 31, 1998 
and 1997 are set forth in Note 4. 


LOANS 


The fair valuation calculation process differentiates 
loans based on their financial characteristics, such as 
product classification, loan category, pricing features 
and remaining maturity. Prepayment estimates are 
evaluated by product and loan rate. 

The fair value of commercial loans, other real estate 
mortgage loans and real estate construction loans 
is calculated by discounting contractual cash flows 
using discount rates that reflect the Company’s current 
pricing for loans with similar characteristics and 
remaining maturity. 

For real estate 1-4 family first and junior lien mort- 
gages, fair value is calculated by discounting contractual 
cash flows, adjusted for prepayment estimates, using 
discount rates based on current industry pricing for 
loans of similar size, type, remaining maturity and 
repricing characteristics. 


94 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 


For credit card loans, the portfolio’s yield is equal to 
the Company’s current pricing and, therefore, the fair 
value is equal to book value. 

For other consumer loans, the fair value is calculated 
by discounting the contractual cash flows, adjusted for 
prepayment estimates, based on the current rates offered 
by the Company for loans with similar characteristics. 

For auto lease financing, the fair value is calculated by 
discounting the contractual cash flows at the Company’s 
current pricing for items of similar remaining term, 
without including any tax benefits. 

Commitments, standby letters of credit and commercial 
and similar letters of credit not included in the previous 
table have contractual values of $71,467 million, $3,332 
million and $691 million, respectively, at December 31, 
1998, and $66,511 million, $3,716 million and $751 
million, respectively, at December 31, 1997. These instru- 
ments generate ongoing fees at the Company’s current 
pricing levels. Of the commitments at December 31, 1998, 
60% mature within one year. 


NONMARKETABLE EQUITY INVESTMENTS 


There are restrictions on the sale and/or liquidation of 
the Company’s nonmarketable equity investments, which 
are generally in the form of limited partnerships; and 
the Company has no direct control over the investment 
decisions of the limited partnerships. To estimate fair 
value, a significant portion of the underlying limited 
partnerships’ investments are valued based on 
market quotes. 


FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 


DEPOSIT LIABILITIES 


FAS 107 states that the fair value of deposits with 
no stated maturity, such as noninterest-bearing demand 
deposits, interest-bearing checking and market rate 
and other savings, is equal to the amount payable on 
demand at the measurement date. Although the FASB’s 
requirement for these categories is not consistent with 
the market practice of using prevailing interest rates 
to value these amounts, the amount included for these 
deposits in the previous table is their carrying value at 
December 31, 1998 and 1997. The fair value of other 
time deposits is calculated based on the discounted value 
of contractual cash flows. The discount rate is estimated 
using the rates currently offered for like deposits with 
similar remaining maturities. 


SHORT-TERM FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 


Short-term financial liabilities include federal 
funds purchased and securities sold under repurchase 
agreements, commercial paper and other short-term 
borrowings. The carrying amount is a reasonable esti- 
mate of fair value because of the relatively short period 
of time between the origination of the instrument and 
its expected realization. 


LONG-TERM DEBT 


The fair value of the Company’s underwritten long-term 
debt is estimated based on the quoted market prices of 
the instruments. The fair value of the medium-term note 
programs, which are part of long-term debt, is calculated 
based on the discounted value of contractual cash flows. 
The discount rate is estimated using the rates currently 
offered for new notes with similar remaining maturities. 


GUARANTEED PREFERRED BENEFICIAL INTERESTS 
IN COMPANY’S SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES 


The fair value of the Company’s trust preferred 
securities is estimated based on the quoted market 
prices of the instruments. 


DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS 


The fair value of derivative financial instruments is 
based on the estimated amounts that the Company 
would receive or pay to terminate the contracts at the 
reporting date (i.e., mark-to-market value). Dealer 
quotes are available for substantially all of the 
Company’s derivative financial instruments. 


LIMITATIONS 


These fair value disclosures are made solely to comply 
with the requirements of FAS 107. The calculations 
represent management's best estimates; however, due 
to the lack of broad markets and the significant items 
excluded from this disclosure, the calculations do not 
represent the underlying value of the Company. The 
information presented is based on fair value calculations 
and market quotes as of December 31, 1998 and 1997. 
These amounts have not been updated since year end; 
therefore, the valuations may have changed significantly 
since that point in time. 

As discussed above, certain of the Company’s asset 
and liability financial instruments are short-term, and 
therefore, the carrying amounts in the consolidated 
balance sheets approximate fair value. Other significant 
assets and liabilities, which are not considered financial 
assets or liabilities and for which fair values have 
not been estimated, include premises and equipment, 
goodwill and other intangibles, deferred taxes and 
other liabilities. 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95 


Independent Auditors’ Report 


The Board of Directors and Stockholders 
of Wells Fargo & Company: 


We have audited the accompanying consolidated 
balance sheet of Wells Fargo & Company and 
Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and 
the related consolidated statements of income, changes 
in stockholders' equity and comprehensive income, 
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year 
period ended December 31, 1998. These consolidated 
financial statements are the responsibility of the 
Company's management. Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these consolidated financial 
statements based on our audits. 


We conducted our audits in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing standards. Those standards require 
that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable 
assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, 
on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and 
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also 
includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as 
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. 
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis 
for our opinion. 


In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements 
referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, 
the financial position of Wells Fargo & Company and 
Subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and 
the results of their operations and their cash flows for 
each of the years in the three-year period ended 
December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally 
accepted accounting principles. 


KPa. LEP 


KPMG LLP 
Certified Public Accountants 


San Francisco, California 
January 19, 1999 


96 


Index of Special Topics 


40 Average balances, yields and rates 
52 Balance sheet 
66 Charge-offs 
35,50 Common stock book value and market price 
48,91 Derivative financial instruments 
34,82 Earnings per share 
35,44 Earnings/ratios excluding goodwill and nonqualifying CDI 
Financial Accounting Standards Board statements: 
35, 83 FAS 130 — Reporting Comprehensive Income 


36 FAS 131 — Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise 
and Related Information 

36 FAS 132 — Employers’ Disclosures about Pension and 
Other Postretirement Benefits 

36 FAS 133 — Accounting for Derivative Instruments 


and Hedging Activities 

36 FAS 134 — Accounting for Mortgage-Backed Securities 
Retained after Securitization of Mortgage 
Loans Held for Sale by a Mortgage Banking 
Enterprise 

36 Five-year compound growth rate 

51 Income statement 


Loans: 
40 Average balances 
45,64 Commitments 


64 Mix at year end 


47 Market risks 
37,61 Merger of Norwest and Wells Fargo 
38,40 Netinterest margin 


55 Notes to financial statements: 


55 Summary of significant accounting policies 

60 Business combinations 

62 Cash, loan and dividend restrictions 

63 Securities available for sale 

64 Loans and allowance for loan losses 

67 Premises, equipment, lease commitments and other assets 
68 Deposits 

68 Short-term borrowings 

69 Long-term debt 

70 Guaranteed preferred beneficial interests in 


Company's subordinated debentures 
72 Preferred stock 


74 Common stock and stock plans 

79 Employee benefits and other expenses 
80 Income taxes 

82 Earnings per common share 

83 Comprehensive income 


84 Operating segments 
86 Mortgage banking activities 


87 Parent company 

89 WFC Holdings Corporation 

89 Legal actions 

90 Risk-based capital 

91 Derivative financial instruments 
93 Fair value of financial instruments 


37,84 Operating Segments 
Ratios: 

35 Profitability (ROA and ROE) 

35 Efficiency 

35 Common stockholders’ equity to assets 
35,90 Risk-based capital and leverage 

36 = Six-year summary of selected financial data 

42 Year 2000 (Y2K) 


SALES AND SERVICE GLOSSARY OF THE NEW WELLS FARGO 


BEST PRACTICES Finding the single best way to 
do something and adopting it wherever it applies — 
to improve customer service, keep customers and 
attract new ones, increase revenue and reduce 
expenses. 


BETTER THAN A BANK, BETTER THAN A 
BROKERAGE The motto of Wells Fargo Private 
Client Services — its commitment to fully integrated 
financial services exceeding the capability of other 
banks and brokerages. 


COMING THROUGH Wells Fargo Agent John 
Valentine crossed the rugged Sierra Nevada on foot 
in the 1860s to deliver money and mail to pioneers in 
a remote mining town. He set the standard for "com- 
ing through" for customers and became president 
of Wells Fargo. 


THE COACH The stagecoach - symbol of Wells 
Fargo since 1852 - originally made in Concord,N.H. 
The body rested on thick ox-hide straps — or thor- 
oughbraces - instead of steel springs. This 
suspension system gave the Concord coach its 
gentle rocking style that Mark Twain called a "cradle 
on wheels." 


COMMITMENT TO DELIVER The Wells Fargo 
book of service standards for all business and sup- 
port groups, listing our commitments to both 
external and internal customers and contact peo- 
ple who can help solve problems fast. 


CROSS-SELLING Our goal is to earn 100 percent 
of every creditworthy customer's business.We want 
every customer cross sold. Every commercial and 
business customer, for example, should not only have 
a loan anda checking account with Wells Fargo but 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 


also treasury management, leasing, international 
trade services, payroll, merchant card, corporate trust, 
employee benefits, and shareholder services. We 
want it all! 


DOING IT RIGHT FOR THE CUSTOMER Our 
company-wide objective to deliver a positive 
customer experience every time. 


DIVERSITY Achieving a competitive advantage by 
embracing the wide differences in all people - in age, 
education, ethnic origin, gender, physical abilities, race, 
religious beliefs, sexual and affectional orientation, 
work background and other perceived differences. If 
we value and celebrate all the ways we're different 
we'll make Wells Fargo more creative, more customer 
focused, a better place to work, and give our cus- 
tomers outstanding service and deliver greater value 
for our stockholders. 


"FAST THEN, FAST NOW." Wells Fargo was 
founded in 1852 on the need to deliver things fast 
for customers. We continue to live that tradition 
today and also offer customers convenience, secu- 
rity, trust and dependability. "Fast" means respecting 
the time of our customers and team members. 


MIND SHARE + HEART SHARE = MARKET 
SHARE Our real competitive advantage is what's in 
our hearts not just our heads. It’s how much we care 
— about our team members, our customers and our 
communities. If we care, we'll provide great service. 
If we provide great service — day after day, month 
after month, year after year — we'll increase market 
share and become known as one of America’s 
great companies. 


OUT LOCAL THE NATIONALS, OUT NATIONAL 
THE LOCALS™ Our strategy to offer better prod- 
ucts and a broader product line than our local 
competitors but also out-perform our national com- 
petitors by staying close to our customers in our 
communities, understanding their needs and pro- 
viding superior service. 


PEOPLE AS A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE Our 
strategy for achieving outstanding performance by 
attracting, motivating, developing, recognizing and 
retaining the very best team members — so we can 
become known as the premier financial services 
provider in each of our markets. 


"RUN IT LIKE YOU OWN IT" Our managers oper- 
ate like owners of their business units knowing where 
every dollar is spent and spending it as if it were their 
own money. 


STORES The physical spaces where we sell and 
serve customers — formerly called branches or 
offices, Stores are the best place to sell and serve 
customers, where our products and services are 
displayed and promoted. 


TEAM MEMBER Implies relationships rather than 
hierarchy. Everyone on the team cooperates with and 
depends on everyone else to sell and serve customers 
and earn all their business. 


TEAMWORK Cross selling customers — which 
increases revenue, profit and our share price — requires 
a team effort and team work. One person can't do it 
alone. All members of the team work together to earn 
100 percent of every customer’s business and the 
team celebrates its success together. 


WHERE TO INVEST IN 


1999 


Smart Money magazine named Wells 
Fargo its number one stock pick in the 
banking segment of the financial 
services industry for 1999 


“Based on average annual return on capital and sales growth ('93-'97), change in 
company's stock price for 52 weeks ending 12/14/98; net profit per team member, and securities 


WELLS FARGO DIRECT PURCHASE PLAN You may buy Wells Fargo stock directly 
from Wells Fargo, even if you're not now a Wells Fargo stockholder, through optional 


cash payments or automatic monthly deductions from a bank account. You may also 


AESEES eh iiiixcsidn Savesoeaiionegaadanitp Vadeadoonsnaieasdeseumausiuse $202 billion 
STOPES! sinsinnsreieb a euinacemalibaime tame encsmaep nnwemeue seacemoeniel 6,000 (est.) 
Team Members (active, full-time equivalent) ...........ccc cece e eee eee eee 92,178 
ill Forbes Global Business & Finance 
GOSTOMENS vinaiwctuuepaleceqaee nonin on eueineaaonaametmeyeleettnay 15 million magazine named Wells Fargo the num- 
Common Shares Outstanding .......60c0cc0ceeeeeseeseeeseees 1,644,057,803 ber one bank in the world in 1999* 
Return an Cannon Equity* secetec aay icra Iatsne ie ecieapelattasstegets 1 4.52% Reprinted by permission of FORBES Magazine © FORBES, INC. 1999 
Market GapitalizQtonl sa cessarsavesacsiaanrasanesseondaotmenare $65.7 Billion 
Price/Earnings: RAWO” ss cnesnxunsounakonarnsnsienniitens wenn cae anxeeeaaee 22.8x : ; 
analysts’ consensus estimated forecast of '99 earnings per share growth. 

Stockholders: OFRECOM: (1/31/99) s siusiain cucuamesanponesenaetewmoiens aud 88,275 
SVMIBOI siscsscetchewrsaratrinccarsiaasieouiinppinas cetera lautinteaplinwieiatian naombncntiner WFC 
STOO cca carn gumiatxerunttaseatncomnieass New York Stock Exchange 

Chicago Stock Exchange 
Shareowner Services .........ccceceeeeees Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A. 


* Excludes merger-related and special charges. 


1-800-468-9716 


have your dividends reinvested automatically. It's a convenient and economical way to 


increase your Wells Fargo investment. Call 1-800-813-3324 for an enrollment kit includ- 


ing a plan prospectus. 


INVESTOR INFORMATION For more copies of this report, other Wells Fargo investor 


. . materials or the latest Wells Fargo stock price, call 1-888-662-7865. 
Investor Relations Robert S. Strickland (415) 396-0523 


Corporate Communications Lawrence P. Haeg (415) 396-3070 
Corporate Secretary Laurel A.Holschuh (612) 667-8655 


ANNUAL STOCKHOLDERS' MEETING 
Montgomery St., San Francisco, Calif. 


1 p.m. Tuesday, April 27, 1999, 420 


OUR VISION 


WELLS FARGO & COMPANY 


Wells Fargo & Company 
420 Montgomery Street 
San Francisco, California 94163 


1-800-411-4932 
www.wellsfargo.com 


