Catalogue  . 


(jJells,  Pargo 

.  ...  AND  ... 

Company  


HISTORICAL  EXHIBIT,  ETC. 


AT  THE . 


WORLD'S 


Columbian  exposition 


CHICAGO,  ILLINOIS,  U.S.A. 


AND  ACROSS   iTvSF^^a^^il^IS^    THE  SEAS 


i  rCROCKeR  COMPANY,  •.r. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Company, 


Organized  t852. 


Express  and  Banking. 


Incorporated  1866. 


Cash  Capital  and  Surplus,  $6,2^0,000. 


Official  Directory. 


JOHN  J.  VALENTINE,  PRESIDENT,  San  Francisco. 


First  Vice-President, 
Second  Vice-President, 
Secretary, 
Assistant  Secretary, 
Trbasubbr, 


W.  F.  GOAD,  . 
DUDLEY  EVANS, 
JAMES  HHROX, 
H,  B.  PARSOVS, 
H.  WADSWORTH, 


San  Francisco. 

New  York. 
San  Francisco. 
New  York. 
San  Francisco. 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  GO'S  BANK. 

HOMER  S.  KING,  MANAGER,  San  Francisco. 


AGENCIES. 

San  Francisco,  Cal.        ......  H.  WADSWORTH,  Cashier. 

New  York,  N.  V.  H.  B.  PARSONS,  Agent. 

London,  Eng.    ElVES  &  ALLEN,  Agents. 

Salt  Lake  Citt,  Utah,        .  .     J.  E.  DOOLV,  Agent. 

CORRESPONDENTS  IN  PRINCIPAL  CITIES. 

Dublin  ROYAL  BANK  OF  IRELAND. 

Paris  KANE  &  CO. 

Chicago,  III   COMMERCIAL  NATIONAL  BANK. 

Boston,  Mass  NATIONAL  BANK  OF  THE  REPUBLIC. 

OuAHA,  Neb  FIRST  NATIONAL  BANK. 

FlIILADELFHIA,  Pa  TRADESM HN'S  NATIONAL  BANK. 

Denver,  Colo.  FIRST  NATIONAL  BANK. 

New  Orleans,  La  LOUISIANA  NATIONAL  BANK, 

Kansas  City,  Mo  NATIONAL  BANK  OF  KANSAS  CITY. 

ST.  Louis,  Mo  THIRD  NATIONAL  BANK. 

•  •  •  CORRESPONDENCE  SOLICITED  •  •  • 


INTBODUCTION. 


to  AMERICAN  VISITORS  a  formal  introduction  will  seem  unnecessary. 
To  the  citizens  of  the  far  West  the  name  and  fame  of  Wells,  Fargo 
&  Company  have  long  been  familiar,  and  to  the  citizens  of  the  East 
they  are  rapidly  becoming  so.  Visitors  from  foreign  lands,  whom  we  welcome 
as  friends  and  neighbors  to  these  shores,  may  find  our  signs  and  emblems  are 
things  they  too  have  seen  or  heard  of  before. 

The  founding  of  WEi,r,s,  Fargo  &  Company  dates  back  to  the  spring 
of  1852,  when  Henry  Wells,  VVm.  G.  Fargo,  John  Livingston,  D.  N.  Barney 
and  others,  animated  by  a  desire  to  profit  by  the  marvelous  mineral  develop- 
ments on  the  Pacilic  Coast,  organized  a  company  bearing  that  name,  with  a 
capital  of  $300,000,  to  do  an  express  and  banking  business  in  California;  and 
soon  after  offices  were  established  in  all  the  mining  camps  of  any  consequence 
in  the  State,  and  operations  were  commenced.  From  its  beginning  to  the 
present  time  the  Company  lias  been  intimately  connected  with  the  progress 
of  the  Pacific  Coast,  to  which  it  has  largely  contributed.  It  early 
established,  for  the  beneiit  of  isolated  settlers  and  miners  in  out-of-the-way 
camps,  along  with  its  express  and  bank,  a  system  of  letter-carrying  and 
delivery,  independent  of  but  really  auxiliary  to  the  U.  S.  mail.  This  novel 
feature  at  once  caught  the  popular  fancy  and  was  held  in  high  esteem,  endear- 
ing the  Company  to  the  miners  and  others  for  its  care  and  thoughtfulness  in 
ministering  in  every  possible  way  to  their  comfort,  convenience  and  happiness. 
It  was  in  this  connection  that  the  Company,  in  April,  1S60,  anticipating  the 
regular  mail  service  across  the  continent,  established  the  famous  Pony  Express 
between  St.  Joseiiii,  Mo.,  and  Sacramento,  Cal.,  making  weekly  trips  and 
carrying  letters  only.  Ten  Jays  were  usually  occupied  in  the  journey.  A 
romantic  interest  still  attaches  to  this  feature,  and  the  vision  of  a  solitary 
horseman,  freighted  with  tidings  of  supreme  importance,  tirelessly  speeding 
over  mountains  and  intervening  spaces,  and  crossing  dangerous  fords,  is 
conjured  up  by  the  mere  mention  of  the  name.    After  the  building  of  the 


CATALOGUE 

Wells,  Fargo  ^  (o's  Historical  Exhibit 


Chicago,  III.,  1893. 


1.  Henry  Wells,  one  of  the  founders  of  Wells,  Fargo  & 

Co.,  and  of  the  Express  business,  born  in  Thedford,  Vt., 
December,  1806;  died  in  Glasgow,  Scotland,  December, 
1878,  during  a  journey  abroad. 

Mr.  Wells  began  liis  career  as  an  expressman  at  Albany,  N.  Y.,  as  Agent  of 
the  Ilavnden  Express  Co.  The  same  year  bo  associated  with  Geo.  Pomeroy  in 
starting  an  expre.«a  of  their  own  under  the  name  of  Pomeroy  <fe  Go's  Albany 
and  Duffalo  Exnress,  the  name  being  changed  afterwards  to  Livingston,  Wella 
<fc  Co.  In  1845  he  was  interested  in  Wells  &  Go's  AVestern  Express,  operating 
between  Buffalo,  N.  Y..  Cincinnati,  O.,  Chicago,  111.,  and  St.  Louis,  Mo.  In 
1850  Wells  &  Co.,  Livingston  &  Fargo  and  Butterlleld,  Wasson  <fc  Co.  combined 
their  interests  and  organized  ajoint  stock  company,  to  be  known  as  the  American 
Express  Company,  still  in  flourishing  existence,  and  ilr.  Wells  was  elected 
President.  In  1852  he  was  chiefly  instrumental  in  forming  another  organization, 
known  over  since  as  Wells,  Fargo  &  Company,  to  compete  for  the  rich  mining 
business  of  California.  Tlie  rapid  growth  and  remarkable  prosperity  of  the  latter 
Company  is  but  imperfectly  suggested  in  the  exhibit  before  the  reader. 

2.  W.  F.  &  Co.  Sign,  used  in  the  office  at  Colusa, 

Cal.,  for  fortj'  years. 

Tlie  sign  was  posted  indoors,  and  hence  its  excellent  preservation  cannot 
fairly  be  attributed  to  the  climate,  which  is  responsible  for  much  of  the  mar- 
velous in  California. 

3.  Wm.  G.  Fargo,  one  of  the  founders  of  Wells,  Fargo 

&  Company,  and  its  Sixth  President;  born  in  Pompey, 
Onondago  County,  N.  Y.,  May,  1818;  died  in  Buffalo, 
N.  Y.,  Augu-st  3,  1 88 1. 

Mr.  Wm.  G.  Fargo  made  his  start  in  life  as  an  employ^  of  the  Auburn  aud 
Syracuse  Railroad.  In  1845  he  was  one  of  the  partners  in  Wells  &  Co's  Express, 
organized  by  Henry  Wells,  with  whom  he  was  closely  associated  ever  after.  In 
1850  he  was  Secretary  of  the  American  Express  Company,  one  of  Mr.  Wells' 
creations,  and  in  1852  they  organized  the  celebrated  express  still  known  the  world 
over  by  their  names,  and  which  pays  this  tribute  to  his  memory. 


3 


4.  Samuel  Knight,  a  victim  of  the  great  Nitro-glycerine 
explosion  at  the  office  of  the  Company,  in  San  Francisco, 
April  i6,  1866.    See  No.  32. 

Mr.  Knight  was  the  superintendent  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.  at  the  time,  with 
headquarters  in  San  Francisco.  Several  other  employes  of  the  Company  were 
killed  by  the  explosion. 


5.  E.  B.  Morgan,  of  Aurora,  N.  Y.,  First  President  of 

Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.,  from  March  18,  1852,  to  November 
25.  J853- 

Mr.  Morgan  seems  not  to  have  taken  the  same  enthusiastic  interest  in  this  Far 
Western  enterprise  his  colleagues  did,  and  his  subsequent  career  was  not  promi- 
nently associated  with  it. 

6.  D.  N.  Barney,  Second  President  of  \V.  F.  &  Co.,  from 

November  26,  1853,  to  ,  1865. 

During  this  time  Mr.  Barney  was  President,  also  (1854),  of  the  United  States 
Express  Company,  and  (1855)  of  the  National  Express  Company.  He  was  a  man 
of  much  executive  ability,  and  devoted  to  the  interests  of  Wells,  Fargo  <t  Co. 

7.  A.  H.  Barney,  Third  President,  from  ,  1865,  to 

February  18,  1867;  and,  as  the  Fifth  of  the  line,  he  held 
the  same  office  a  second  time,  February  18,  1868,  to 
May  26,  1870. 

Like  his  brother,  the  second  president,  Mr.  A.  II.  Barney  ever  took  an  active 
and  hearty  interest  in  the  prosperity  of  W.  F.  <fe  Co. 


8.  Indoor  Sign,  u.sed  in  the  Company's  office  at  Stock- 

ton, Cal.,  for  forty  j'ears. 

This  patriotic  sign,  a  wood  carving,  was  made  by  a  local  artist  in  1853,  and 
has  done  duty  ever  since  without  being  retouclip<l. 

9.  Jolin  J.  Valentine,  Eighth   President  of  Wells, 

Fargo  &  Co.,  incumbent;  elected  to  the  office  by  unani- 
mous vote  of  the  Board  of  Directors,  August  11,  1892. 

Mr.  Valentine  attained  this  highest  honor  after  thirty  years' service  in  the 
Company,  made  remarkable  by  steady,  forward  steps :  Agent.  18G2;  Agent  W.  F.  <fc 
Co.,  and  Superintendent  of  Pioneer  Stage  Co.,  1863;  Houte  Agent,  1866;  Cashier, 
1867;  Superintendent  W.  F.  &  Co..  1868;  General  .Superintendent,  1869;  Vice-Presi- 
dent, General  Superintendent  and  Director,  1882;  Vice-President  and  General  Mana- 

fer,  1884;  President,  1892.   He  continues  an  active,  general  oversight  of  the  vast 
usinessof  the  Company,  his  thorough  familiarity  with  its  multitudinous  details 
rendering  it  almost  indispensable  for  him  to  do  so. 


4 


10.  Louis  9IcL.ane,  Fourth  President,  from  February  i8, 
1867,  to  February  18,  1868;  born  in  Baltimore,  Md., 
and  at  one  time  an  officer  in  the  U.  S.  Navy;  now  living 
in  honored  retirement  and  comfortable  circumstances  in 
his  native  city. 

In  1855  he  was  appointed  General  Agent  of  the  Company  on  the  Pacific  Coast. 
Upon  the  consolidation  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.,  The  Ilolladay  Overland  Slail  and 
Express  Co.,  the  Overland  Mail  Co.,  and  the  Pioneer  Stage  Co.,  under  the  title  of 
Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.,  Mr.  JIcLane  was  elected  President — the  Fourth  in  regular 
order.  He  was  the  founder  of  the  Pioneer  Stage  Company,  running  between 
Shingle  Springs,  Cal.,and  Virginia  City,  Nev. ,  one  of  the  most  perfectly  equipped 
and  ably  managed  stage  lines  ever  organized,  and  doing  an  immense  passenger 
business  during  the  earlier  period  of  the  Washoe  mining  excitement. 


11.  Lloyd  Tevis,  Seventh  President,  from  February  8, 

1872,  to  August  II,  1892,  a  continuous  term  in  ofiBce 
of  over  twenty  years. 

Mr.  Tevis  was  born  in  Shelbyville,  Kentucky,  March  20, 1824,  but  came  to 
California  in  1849,  where  he  has  resided  ever  since — for  many  years  past  in  San 
Francisco,  which  is  still  his  home,  and  where  he  has  always  been  a  prominent 
figure  in  business  and  socially.  He  has  amassed  a  large  fortune,  to  the  care  and 
management  of  which  his  time  is  now  devoted. 

12.  Benjamin  P.  Cheney,  of  Boston,  Mass.,  where  he 

still  resides,  an  influential  and  well-to-do  citizen.  He 
was  among  the  founders  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Company, 
and  for  many  years  one  of  its  Directors. 

Jlr.  Cheney  has  always  been  an  active  promoter  of  express  and  railway 
enterprises,  but  being  of  quiet  and  retiring  habits  his  name  and  personality  have 
not  been  as  distinctly  impressed  upon  the  popular  mind  as  those  of  his  associates. 

13.  Charles  E.  McLane,  brother  of  President  Louis 

Mclyane  (see  No.  10),  was  General  Agent  of  the  Com- 
pany, headquarters  in  San  Francisco,  from  1867  to  May 
26,  1870. 

Mr.  Charles  E.  McLane  had  special  oversight  for  some  years  of  the  Pioneer 
Stage  Company's  line  during  the  palmiest  days  of  the  "Washoe"  excitement  and 
of  its  own  consequent  phenomenal  prosperity.  His  courteous  and  jovial  disposi- 
tion made  him  very  popular  with  the  employes  and  the  traveling  public.  lie 
was  a  member  of  the  San  Francisco  City  Hall  Commission  when  tlie  foundation 
of  that  capacious  and  conspicuous  builfbng  was  laid,  1871. 

14.  Chinese  Calendar  and  Business  Direct- 

ory, 1892. 

A  sheet  issued  by  a  Chinese  publishing  liouse  in  San  Francisco  for  the  con- 
venience of  their  countrymen  and  tlie  mercantile  community  of  the  city.  Note 
that  the  number  of  calendar  months  assigned  to  the  year  differs  from  our  system. 


5 


15.  A  Wells,  Pargo  &  Co.  Pictorial  Adver- 

tisement, ill  wliich  are  grouped  the  most  charac- 
teristic features  of  the  service,  past  and  present, 
interspersed  with  pertinent  mottoes;  designed  by  a  Route 
Agent  of  the  Company  located  at  Portland,  Oregon,  1883. 

16.  Money  Order  Poster,  the  first  issue. 

The  typioftl  "  Noble  Red  Man"  portraytJ  is  presumed  to  contemplate  with 
pensive  wonder  the  scene  before  him — a  Central  Pacific  train,  carrying  Wells, 
Fargo  &  Go's  express,  sweeping  around  the  giddy  curve  of  Cape  Horn,  above  the 
American  Ri  ver. 

17.  Photo  of  a  California  Coast  L,ine  Stage, 

1872,  taken  from  an  oil  painting. 

This  Line  carried  the  ilail  and  Express  through  the  rich  agricultural  counties 
of  California  bordering  the  Pacific  Ocean. 


18.  L.itlios;rapli  of  the  California  Stage  Com- 

pany's   Road    Equipment;    published  by 

Britton  &  Rev,  of  San  Francisco,  1853. 

This  is  said  to  be  the  first  lithographic  print  executed  and  issued  in  California. 
It  was  ordered  by  Hall  &  Crandall,  proprietors  of  a  Stage  Company,  but  tliey  con- 
solidated their  business  meanwhile  with  the  California  Stage  Company,  under 
whose  auspices  the  picture  was  completed.  The  Mail  and  Express  were  carried 
on  these  stages. 

19.  List  of  Offices  and  Agents,  1857.  Number 

of  offices,  78;  employes,  all  told,  about  320. 

Compare  with  No.  3.3 — the  List  for  1892:  Number  of  offices,  nearly  3,000; 
employes,  nearly  (>,000. 

20.  Lithograph  of  the  Pioneer  Stage,  en 

Route. 

The  splcuilid  service  of  the  Pioneer  Stage  Company  is  here  delineated.  The 
scene  is  laid  near  the  shore  of  Lake  Tahoe,  Yank's  Station,  a  famous  hostelry, 
about  being  roaclii  d. 

21.  Lithograph    of    California    &  Oregon 

Stage  Co's  Line,  Mount  Shasta  in  the  background. 

22.  "The  Days  of  '49"  (a  poster).    Some  of  the 

mining  camps  as  known  in  those  livelj'  times. 

The  names  are  decidedly  suggestive  of  the  unaffected  spirit  of  Pioneer  life. 
Each  one  originated  in  some  local  peculiarity  or  personal  e.\perienoe,  and  the 
history  that  crystallized  about  each  would  form  a  bulky  volume.  Li  some  cases 
the  name  bad  its  origin  in  a  sense  entirely  opposite  to  that  authorized  by  Webster. 
For  example,  "  Piety  Hill"  was  remarkable  for  its  undue  (iroportion  of  impioui 
or  profane  characters:  "  Sublimity  "  for  being  the  other  attribute  of  two  between 
which,  according  to  the  adage,  there  is  but  one  step. 

6 


23-  Office  of  the  Pacific  Union  Kxpress,  at 
Treasure  City,  White  Pine  District, 
Xevada,  1868;  drawn  by  an  employe  of  that 
Company. 

The  artist,  more  devoted  to  his  employers  than  to  (he  truth  of  history,  has 
depicted  Wells,  Fargo  <fe  Go's  Pony-rider  on  a  jaded  mule,  struggling  forward  from 
the  rear,  while  their's  reins  in  at  the  office  on  a  spirited  Arabian  charger,  which  is 
untired  and  restless ;  when  exactly  the  reverse  of  those  conditions  was  there  the 
rule. 

24.  Wells,   Fargo   &   Co's   Office,   City  of 

Mexico.    Esquina  Aveuida  Oriente  y  Calle  Norte  3. 

The  building  was  originally  the  "  palace '' of  a  wealthy  Mexican  family,  of 
which  fact  it  bears  abundant  architectural  and  artistic  traces,  externally  and 
internally.  It  must  have  ranked  iu  its  time  as  one  of  the  most  elegant  and  lux- 
urious of  private  residences  in  the  eity.  As  now  occupied,  the  ground  floor  is 
devoted  to  the  local  business  of  the  Express,  and  affords  accommodations  also  for 
the  stock  (principally  mules)  required  for  hauling  purposes.  The  Superintendent 
of  the  Division,  Mr.  Daniel  Turner,  has  his  offices  and  apartments  on  the  second 
floor.  Mr.  Turner  is  a  typical  American,  a  grandson  of  Francis  Scott  Key,  the 
author  of  the  Slar-Spangled  Banner.  lie  is  an  experienced  expressman,  having 
risen  by  merit  from  tlie  ground  up,  aud  is  an  able  and  popular  officer. 

25.  ^^Ad"  of  Midland  RailMray  Company  of 

England. 

The  Agents  of  this  corporation,  as  stated  iu  a  foot-note,  are  empowered  to 
receive  and  forward  to  the  Agents  of  Wells,  Fargo  <fc  Co.,  at  London  and  Liver- 
pool, parcels  and  packages  destined  for  the  United  States,  etc. 

26.  Poster,  Offering    $10,000   Reward  for 

£vans  and  Sontag,  the  notorious  train  robbers. 

The  poster  recites  the  special  crime  for  which  their  apprehension  is  sought. 
This  specimen  pair  of  highwaymen  have  since  added  largely  to  their  record  as 
unconscionable  desperadoes,  while  eluding  the  utmost  vigilance  of  the  officers  in 
pursuit,  three  of  whom  have  iu  turn  met  death  at  their  hands. 

27.  Poster— Reduction  in  the  Rate  of  U.  S. 

Postage,  1884. 

It  anuounces  a  corresponding  decline  in  the  price  of  letters  carried  by  Express, 
in  Government  Stamped  envelopes  bearing  the  company's  imprint,  and  technically 
called  "  Franks." 


28.   License  for  an  Kxpress  Wagon,  Marys- 
ville,  Cal.,  1856. 

The  signature  is  that  of  George  C.  Gorham,  City  Clerk.  The  same  gentleman 
became  in  after  years  a  noted  politician,  candidate  for  Governor  of  California, 
and,  for  some  years,  filled  the  office  of  Secretary  of  the  U.  S.  Senate, 

7 


Also,  CiRCULAE,  BY  SuPT.  Samuel  Ksight  (see  No.  4),  imposing  exem- 
plary CHARGES  ON  DOGS,  with  a  view  to  discourage  that  class  of  shipment  by- 
express.  The  Company  had  about  that  time  incurred  a  loss  of  $25  on  one  shipped 
from  Stockton,  Cal.,to  San  Francisco — the  difference  between  charges  receiveu,  $5, 
and  expenses  incurred  for  recovery,  $30 — the  dog  having  escaped  from  the  custody 
of  the  Messenger. 


29.  Bulldog  Guarding  a  Safe;  one  of  the  earlier 

trade-marks  of  the  Compaii}'. 

The  placid,  unconcerned  expression  of  the  dog,  poorly  disguising  the  heredi- 
tary pluck,  energy  and  tenacity  of  his  species,  is  to  symbolize  the  dominant 
characteristics  of  the  Express  service. 

30.  Appointment  of  John  Conness  as  Agent  of 

Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.,  at  Georgetown,  Cal.,  Sept.  i,  1856. 

Mr.  Conness  afterwards  relintjuished  the  service  of  the  company  for  politics, 
and  served  a  term  in  the  U.  S.  Senate. 


31.  Photo  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Depot, 

Jersey  City  (opposite  New  York  City). 

This  building  affords  facilities  for  simultaneously  loading  and  discharging  two 
express  trains  each  way  and  maneuvering  forty-two  wagons— double  and  single 
teams.  The  sui)ply  station  of  the  Atlantic  Department  is  located  on  the  second 
floor  of  this  building. 

32.  Photos  of  Scenes  about  the  San  Fran- 

cisco Office,  After  the  Great  Nitro- 
glycerine   Explosion   April    16,  1866, 

by  which  four  persons  connected  with  the  express  lost 
their  lives,  Superintendent  Knight  one  of  the  number. 

This  awful  calamity  was  one  of  the  first  that  introduced  the  public  to  a 
knowledge  of  the  destructive  energy  of  the  new  compound.  The  uitro-glycerine, 
enelo.sed  in  tin  cans,  was  j)ut  up  in  a  wooden  case  that  outwardly  bore  close 
resemblance  to  a  case  of  ordinary  coal  oil.  beingslightly  stained  with  oily  leakage. 
It  had  been  brought  out  from  New  York  as  freight  on  a  Pacific  Mail  Com- 
pany's steamer,  the  nature  of  contents  not  clearly  understood.  Rehiaining 
uncalled  for  on  the  dock.  Wells,  Fargo  ct  Co.,  who  were  then  freight  agents  of 
the  steanisliip  line,  removed  the  case  to  their  office,  corner  of  Montgomery  and 
California  streets,  and  in  the  attempt  to  investigate  the  signs  of  leakage  the  first 
blow  of  the  hammer  on  the  cold  chisel  sent  death  and  destruction  on  all  around. 
The  entire  city  felt  the  shock,  and  the  alarmed  citizens  betook  themselves  to  the 
streets,  under  the  impression  that  it  was  an  earthquake.  The  difficulty  of  making 
out  the  details  of  the  pictures  clearly  is  owing  to  the  prodigious  force  of  the  explo- 
sion, knocking  the  rear  of  the  building  into  unrecognizable  masses  of  d6bris. 
Nitro-glycerine  at  once  Itecaiue  the  object  of  special  dread  and  precaatiou,  and 
the  handling  of  it  was  placed  under  legal  regulations  and  restrictions  throughout 
the  country. 


8 


33.  Mike  Xovey,  a  shotgun  messenger,  or  guard,  of 

Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.,  whose  record  for  vigilance,  intre- 
pidity and  fidelity  entitle  him  to  consideration  as  a 
representative  of  that  class  of  employes. 

To  give  a  siugle  specimen  of  his  experiences  ou  the  road,  Sliarp  and  .Tones, 
two  professional  road  agents,  held  up  the  stage  en  route  from  Bodie,  Cal.,  to 
Carson,  Nevada,  on  the  morning  of  September  5,  1880,  Jones  firing  two  shots 
from  the  roadside  and  Icilling  one  of  the  horses.  Tovey  was  on  board,  and 
from  his  seat  alongside  the  driver  took  a  shot  at  Jones,  which  killed  him.  Sharp 
then  opened  fire  and  severely  wounded  Tovey  in  his  right  arm,  who,  finding  him- 
self disabled,  made  his  way  to  a  neighboring  farm  house  to  have  his  wound 
dressed.  Meanwhile  Sharp  approached  the  stage,  and,  demanding  the  Express 
Treasure  box  from  the  driver,  rifled  it  of  $700  and  fled,  leaving  his  dead  comrade 
behind,  and  the  stage  blocked  by  the  unfortunate  horse  that  lay  dead  in  his  har- 
ness. Sharj)  was  vigorously  pursued  and  captured  soon  after,  and  was  sent  to 
the  penitentiary  for  twenty  years. 

34.  "The  Old  Office"  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co. 

(Express  and   Bank),   San  Francisco, 

northwest  corner  of  Montgomery  and  California  streets. 

The  building  itself,  still  iu  existence,  was  for  years  one  of  the  most  substan- 
tially built  in  the  city  and  a  conspicuous  landmark.  The  stone  used  in  its  con- 
struction was  brought  from  China  as  ballast  in  vessels,  each  stone  dressed  and 
ready  for  its  place  in  the  wall,  a  Chinese  character  on  each  indicating  its  proper 
position.  Of  course,  only  Chinese  masons  could  read  the  mark  and  be  employed 
in  laying  the  stone,  and  it  is  said  a  popular  uprising  against  Mongolian  immigra- 
tion about  that  time  having  caused  the  contractors  to  discharge  their  Chinamen, 
the  work  was  brought  to  a  dead  halt  and  could  not  proceed  until  the  objectionable 
workmen  were  reinstated.  As  originally  constructed,  the  openings  of  the  build- 
ing were  disproportionately  small  as  compared  witli  the  walls,  which  gave  it  a 
somber  appearance,  but  this  defect  was  corrected  later  by  remodeling ;  and  the 
"  Old  Parrot  Building,"  as  it  is  now  called,  is  still  a  feature  of  Montgomery  Street. 
It  was,  when  occupied  by  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.,  their  Head  OflSce,  and  but  three 
persons  were  employed  by  the  Auditor  and  Cashier;  at  present  a  force  of  nearly 
three  hundred  clerks  is  required  in  those  departments  of  general  accounting. 

35.  List  of  Offices  and  Agents,  1892. 

Compare  with  No.  19.    The  difference  in  size  tells  its  own  story  at  a  glance. 

36.  Appointment  of  J.  J.  Valentine  as  Agent 

at  Strawberry  Valley,  Cal.,  1862. 
This  was  the  beginning  of  Mr.  Valentine's  career  as  an  expressman. 

37.  John  Brent,  Shotgun  Messenger,  or  guard; 

now  Superintendent  of  the  Company's  stable  at  lyos 
Angeles,  Cal. 

Mr.  Brent  began  service  with  the  Company  as  a  stage-driver  on  a  mountain 
route,  and  exchanged  the  whip  for  a  gun  in  1870.  As  guard  he  ranked  among  the 
most  reliable  for  courage  and  tact,  and  escorled  safely  millions  of  treasure  (special 
shipments)  from  Ogden  to  San  Francisco,  1877-78;  one,  iu  1877,  consisting  of  a 
single  gold  brick,  valued  at  $04,200,  from  the  Penobscot  Mine,  in  Montana. 


9 


38.  Photo  of  a   Solid   Train  of  Concord 

Stage  Coaches,  purchased  by  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co. 
for  use  ou  their  passenger  lines  in  the  West,  connecting 
the  termini  of  the  Union  Pacific  and  Central  Pacific 
railroads,  then  building. 

The  train  is  represented  as  pulling  out  from  the  factory  at  Concord,  N.  H., 
April  16, 1868;  destination,  Cheyenne,  Wyo.  Ty. 

39.  Appointment  of  John  J.  Valentine  as  sole 

Traveling  Agent  for  the  Company,  i866. 

40.  Appointment  of  General  John  Bidwell 

as  Agent  at  Chico,  Cal..  July  5,  1867. 

Mr.  Bidwell  has  been  one  of  the  leading  spirits  in  the  development  of  North- 
ern California,  and  has  acquired  considerable  landed  possessions,  the  most  of  thcni 
finely  improved.  He  is  a  hearty  worker  in  the  Temperance  cause,  and  was  a 
Presidential  candidate  (on  the  Prohibition  ticket)  in  the  last  Natdonal  Campaign, 
1892. 


41.    Photo  of  George  Hackett,  a  shotgun  mes- 
senger. 

Mr.  Hackett  has  the  reputation  among  highwaymen  of  being  an  ugly  ctis- 
tomer.  He  has  certainly  made  it  unpleasant  for  that  kind  of  people  at  several 
enforced  intcrviowc.  The  stage,  carrying  the  e.xpress  between  Forbestown  and 
Oroville,  was  robbed  by  two  masked  men  June  20,  1879,  who  secured  $G20  in  gold 
dust,  besides  .some  coin.  The  following  day  Hackett  made  a  return  trip  over  his 
owH  route — Marysvillc  and  Laportp — from  Forest  City;  and  at  a  point  eighteen 
miles  from  Marysville  two  masked  men  emerged  from  the  brush  in  a  menacing 
manner,  but  when  he  promptly  rai.sed  his  gun  they  slunk  back.  He  jumped 
from  the  bo.x  and  followed  them  into  a  thicket  of  undergrowth  for  about  two 
hundred  yards,  when  he  came  upon  their  camp,  where  they  had  left  their  clothes, 
intending,  for  son)e  whimsical  reason,  to  commit  the  robbery  in  their  nether  gar- 
ments— tlieir  drawers.  He  found  a  valise  there  containing  the  gold  dust  (1620), 
taken  the  day  before,  and  in  their  trouser.^'  pockets  $25()  in  coin,  the  rest  of  that 
day's  plunder.  He  secured  the  money  and  clothes  by  packing  them  to  the  stage, 
which  he  moved  to  a  more  safe  position,  and  then  returned  to  the  brush,  where  ne 
soon  ran  afoul  of  one  of  the  robbers  in  .search  of  his  clothes,  and  forced  him  to 
surrender;  the  other  escaped.  The  captured  man  was  afterwards  tried  and  sent  to 
the  penitentiary  for  fifteen  years.  In  1S>S2,  July  13th,  the  stage  Hackett  was 
guarding  was  stopped  by  a  lone  highwayman  about  five  miles  from  l.aporfe. 
Quick  as  aflash  Hackett  tired  at  him,  the  ball  grazing  his  head.  The  robber  then 
pointed  his  gun  at  the  driver,  but  before  he  could  pull  the  trigger  a  second  shot, 
well  directed,  from  Hackett  knocked  it  out  of  his  hands,  and  the  discomfited 
robber  took  to  his  heels,  falling  down  at  the  .start, and  dropping  his  hat  and  mask, 
which  were  picked  up  by  the  victor  as  battle  trophies.  The  fugitive  was  no  other 
than  the  notorious  Black  Bart,  as  he  himself  admitted  when,  some  years  later,  he 
was  caught  and  confined  within  pri.son  walls.  The  day  of  this  encounter  did  not 
close  on  Hackett  withont  another  incident.  Arrived  within  fourteen  miles  of 
Oroville  he  espied  another  man  with  masked  face,  and  gun  in  hand,  hiding 
behind  an  oak,  and  fired  at  him  without  needless  formality.  The  salute  was 
returned,  hitting  Hackett  in  the  face,  who  then  alighted  and  ran  the  robber  into 
the  brush,  taking  aim  at  him  on  the  run,  but  the  gun  snapped  and  he  escaped. 
The  identity  of  this  highwayman  could  never  be  established. 


10 


43.    Original     Way-bills,    Weaverville  to 
Shasta,  Cal.,  1859  and  i860. 

The  entries,  "Gold  Bars"  and  "Bags  of  Dust,"  show  the  character  of  the 
auriferous  shipments  in  that  and  other  localities  of  California  at  the  time. 


44.   Photo  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Present 
Express  Quarters,  San  Francisco,  New 

Montgomery,  Jessie  and  Mission  streets. 

One  of  the  most  complete  Express  otfices  in  the  United  States,  hence  in  the 
world.  Connected  with  the  Freight  Department, inside,  are  driveways,  where  the 
Company's  wagons,  large  and  smallj  with  their  teams,  find  ample  accommoda- 
tions while  loading  or  discharging  freight.  The  Receiving  and  Delivering  Depart- 
ments proper  are  located  on  the  ground  floor,  and  are  very  conveniently  arranged. 
The  general  offices  of  the  Company  and  the  Cashier's  and  Auditing  Department  are 
on  the  second  floor.    President  John  J.  Valentine  has  his  office  in  this  building. 


45.   Chinese  Advertisement  of  W.  F.  &  Co. 

The  Company,  by  its  fair  and  impartial  treatment  of  the  public,  has  always 
enjoyed  the  special  favor  and  patronage  of  the  Chinese  of  the  Pacific  Coast,  who 
have  unbounded  faith  in  its  responsibility  and  integrity,  both  as  an  Express  and  a 
Bank. 


46.   Poster — $300  Standing  Reward  for  High- 
waymen. 

The  standing  reward  ^s  additional  to  one  of  the  same  kind  offered  by  various 
States  and  Territories  in  the  West — together  constituting  a  powerful  incentive  to 
run  down  that  kind  of  outlaws. 


47.  Poster— Change  of  Sailing  Days,  San  Fran- 
cisco to  Panama,  per  P.  M.  S.  S.  Co.  steamers,  June  6. 
1862. 

An  object  of  interest  to  the  "  Old-Timers  " — those  who  made  the  trip  to  Cali- 
fornia in  early  days — reminding  them  of  how  they  got  there. 


48.    Poster— Robbery  of  L,os  Angeles  Trunk, 

Son  Francisco,  January  19,  1861. 

Among  the  securities  stolen  were  two  checks,  drawn  to  the  order  of  Captain 
W.  S.  Hancock,  afterwards  one  of  the  most  noted  Union  Major-Generals  ot  the 
War  of  the  Rebellion,  and  in  1880  Democratic  candidate  for  the  Presidency  of  the 
United  States. 


11 


49.  Circular  Reporting:  Completion  of  the  first 

Telegraph  Line  across  the  continent,  October  25,  i860, 
and  consequent  Discontinuance  of  the  Pony  Express. 
Also,  a  Pony  Express  Notice,  dated  April  18,  i860. 

The  event  auiiouiiced  in  the  first-named  circular  marked  a  new  era  in  over- 
land communication;  hut  the  retired  enterprise,  the  Pony  Express,  had  taken  a 
deep  hold  on  the  popular  fancy,  and  the  Pony  Stamps"  then  in  use  are  still 
eagerly  sought  after  by  pliilatists,  or  collectors,  while  the  history  of  "The  Pony  " 
is  read  with  the  absorbinj;  interest  of  a  highly  wrought  romance. 

50.  Cover  of  Chinese  Directory,  1878,  showing 

the  peculiar  imprints  on  the  outsides.  Published  by 
Wells,  Fargo  &  Co. 

The  Company  for  .some  years  in  successiou  printed,  for  use  in  the  service,  a 
Chinese  Directory,  embracing  the  business  firms  of  that  people  in  the  principal 
cities  of  note  on  the  Pacific  Coast.  In  style  the  publication  was  gotten  up  with 
deference  to  the  peculiar  artistic  tastes  of  the  Mongolians,  and  the  dragon  is  a 
conspicuous  feature  in  the  embellishments. 

51.  Notice  of  John  J.  Valentine's  Appoint- 

ment as  General  Superintendent,  1869. 

The  Headquarters  of  the  Company,  including  the  General  Superintendent's 
ofiice,  were  removed  then  to  New  York  City,  but  a  year  later  were  again  returned 
to  San  Francisco,  where  they  have  since  remained. 

52.  Circular  from  the  Exchange  Department, 

San  Francisco,  July  8,  1857,  relative  to  the  State 
Stamp  Tax. 

The  rate  imposed  was  heavy, and  far  in  excess  of  the  Revenue  Tax  exacted  by 
the  General  Government. 

.\lso.  Notice  of  the  Discontinuance  of  the  Semi-weekly  Overland  Mail  via 
Los  .\ngeles,  April  8,  1801,  to  be  at  once  succeeded  by  dnih/  service  on  the 
so-called  Northern  route,  via  Sacramento,  Placerville,  Carson  and  Salt  Lake. 
This  constitutC'l  (lie  Mail  and  Express  service  across  the  continent  during  War 
times,  but  was  gradually  superseded  as  the  railroads  reached  completion,  1860. 

53.  Circular  to  Superintendents  of  Wells, 

Fargo  &  Co.,  October  26,  1892,  to  provide  Thanks- 
giving Cheer  for  employes. 

This  generous  custom,  previously  established,  has  been  kept  up  each  year  since, 
and  fairly  illustrates  the  alrao.st  paternal  interest  taken  by  the  management  in 
the  welfare  and  happine.'S  of  employes. 

54.  Circular  Notice  dated  San  Francisco,  1857,  relative 

to  Insurance  of  Risks.  Also,  one  dated  December  28, 
1858,  in  regard  to  strict  observance  of  rules  governing 
the  stamping  of  Letters  ("  Franks  "). 


12 


55.  Letter  Dated  December  15,  1869,  from  N. 
Hammond,  Agent  at  Reno,  Nevada,  advising  the  ship- 
ment to  Marysville,  Cal.,  of  the  stage-horse  "Old 
Rock,"  formerly  driven  by  "Curly  Bill,"  a  popular 
old-time  stage-driver,  twin  brother  of  "Curly  Dan," 
who  also  achieved  a  widespread  reputation  and  popu- 
larity in  the  same  calling. 

58.   Official    Circular,  December    30,  1862, 

giving  new  rates  of  Exchange.  Also,  one  dated  May 
22,  1869,  announcing  the  opening  of  the  Central 
Pacific  Railroad,  or  Through  Service  Overland,  and 
the  discontinuing  of  "Steamer  Day"  —  a  new  epoch  in  the 
history  of  the  nation,  affecting  not  only  commerce  and 
travel,  but  the  social  and  political  interests  of  its  entire 
people. 

57.  An  Old  Envelope,  bearing  a  vignette  of  Wells, 

Fargo  &  Co's  office,  corner  Montgomery  and  California 
streets  (see  No.  34).  Also,  two  Heads  of  blanks  of  the 
California  State  Telegraph  Company,  for  some  years  a 
competitor  of  the  Western  Union  Telegraph  Co. 

58.  Sundry  Old-time  Circulars  of  Wells,  Fargo 

&  Co.  — 1855  to  1859. 

59.  Old-time     Express    Way-bills,  1859-61, 

Weaverville  to  Shasta. 

60.  Sundry  Circulars   Relating  to  the  Ex- 

press—1859-69. 

61.  One  of  the  Original  "P.  P."  (Parcels  and 

Packages)  Trunks  used  by  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co. 
Few  of  this  model  left. 

62.  "P.  P."  Trunk  of  the  Earliest  Model  (see 

No.  61). 

63.  "  P.  P."  Trunk,  Medium  Size,  present  model. 

These  trunks,  or  "  Packers,"  as  variously  denominated  West  and  East,  are  used 
to  great  advantage  on  railroad  routes  to  hold  parcels  and  packages  intact  while 
in  transit.   The  number  now  in  actual  use  by  the  Company  is  about  two  thousand , 

13 


64.  Black    Bart's   Valise,   captured  after  his  last 

exploit  on  the  stage  road,  Sonora  and  Milton,  Cal.,  1883. 

The  baggage  of  the  notorious  lone  highwayman  was  found  to  consist  of 
things  to  eat — canned  meat  and  pickles — and  but  a  limited  supply  of  them.  This 
last  stage  robbery  of  his — the  twenty-seventh  in  order  during  an  eight  years' 
career,  only  one  of  which  failed — was  followed  soon  after  by  his  arrest  and  con- 
viction; and  although  Black  Bart  has  since  served  his  time  and  regained  his 
liberty,  it  is  thought  ne  has  been  permanently  retired  from  the  road. 

65.  Iron  Treasure  Box  Used  on  Concord 

Stage  Coaches. 

They  were  securely  anchored  under  the  inside  back  seat,  as  suggested  by  the 
rounded  side,  and  were  completely  masked  from  view  by  the  cushion  and  other 
upholstery  of  the  Coach.  Of  course  the  secret  could  not  be  kept,  and  these  safes 
were  afterwards  retired  from  service  on  account  of  the  havoc  done  to  Coaches  in 
occasional  attempts  of  robbers  to  blow  them  open  w  ith  guupowder.  A  simpler 
form  of  iron  box  for  transporting  treasure  on  stages  was  in  use  at  same  time  and 
has  long  survived  the  other  model,  many  of  them  being  still  in  use. 


66.    A  Bursted  Grip   Bag— specimen  of  Dynamite 
warfare. 

The  bag  was  one  in  use  by  Messenger  George  D.  Roberts  when  attacked  by 
the  now  notorious  train  robbers,  Evans  and  Sontag,  near  Collis  Station,  on  the 
Southern  Pacific  line,  1892.  Roberts  opposed  so  stubborn  a  resistance  to  the 
efforts  of  the  robbers  to  get  inside  his  car  that  a  number  of  dynamite  cartridges 
were  thrown,  one  after  the  other,  against  and  into  the  car,  shaking  and  shattering 
everything  coming  in  contact.  The  cartridge  that  collided  with  tlie  bag  literally 
pulverized  it  where  it  hit.  Roberts  finally  surrendered,  and  the  express  was 
robbed,  but  not  until  after  he  had  been  blown  up  several  times  and  received  such 
internal  injury  and  nervous  shock  that  his  chances  for  ultimate  restoration  to 
health  and  vigor  are  considered  doubtful. 


67.  Reward  Poster — 51 .000  for  Highwaymen  concerned 

in  robbing  the  Marj-sville  Stage,  December  i,  1866,  in 
Penn  Valley. 

68.  W.  F.  &  Co.  Sign,  used  at  Marysville,  Cal.,  for 

nearly  forty  years. 

This  sign  was  made  at  Sacramento  in  1854  and  has  never  been  retouched. 
Being  for  indoor  display  may  account  for  its  remarkable  preservation,  and  the 
somewhat  fanciful  arrangement  of  pendant  panels. 

69.  Reward  Poster— $3,000  for  the  robbers  of  the 

North  San  Juan  Stage,  May  15,  1866. 

Note  endorsement  on  left-hand  corner :  "  Steve  Venard  killed  the  three  rob- 
bers and  brought  in  treasure  the  same  day."  Mr.  Stephen  Venard,  who  was 
Sheriff  of  Xcvada  County,  Cal. ,  at  the  time,  hearing  of  tne  robbery,  started  into 


14 


the  mountains  after  the  robbers.  He  soon  discovered  them,  hiding  among 
the  rocks,  and  with  his  good  rifle  picked  them  off  their  feet  one  at  a  time,  making 
a  clean  sweep  of  them.  The  Company  presented  him  an  extra  fine  rifle  as  a  testi- 
monial to  his  superior  marksmanship.  He  continued  in  the  county  for  years  an 
honored  and  respected  citizen,  and  died,  a  year  or  two  ago,  sincerely  lamented. 

70.  Reward  Poster — $10,000  for  the  parties  who  robbed 

the  Volcano,  Cal.,  Stage,  May  i,  1872. 

71.  Charles  Crocker^  of  San  Francisco;  a 

Director  and  promoter  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co. 

He  was  one  of  the  builders  of  the  Central  Pacific  Railroad — the  western  sec- 
tion of  the  first  great  railroad  system  across  the  continent,  known  jointly  as  the 
"  Central  Overland  Line."   Mr.  Crocker  died  in  San  Francisco,  August  14, 1888. 

72.  Leland  Stanford,  of  San  Francisco;  a 

Director  and  promoter  of  the  Company;  also  one  of 
the  original  builders  of  the  first  continental  system  of 
railroads. 

Mr.  Stanford  at  one  time  waa  Governor  of  California,  and  is  now  U.S.  Senator 
from  that  State. 

73.  John  J.  Valentine,  as  General  Superintendent  of 

Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.;  appointed  July  i,  1869;  picture 
taken  1877.    See  No.  9. 

74.  ColHs  P.  Huntington,  of  New  York  and  San 

Francisco;  a  promoter  and  Director  of  the  Company. 

Mr.  Huntington  is  now  president  of  the  Southern  Pacific  Railroad,  vice  Hon. 
Leland  Stanford,  resigned.  He  was  one  of  the  original  projectors  and  builders  of 
the  first  through  system  of  railroads  connecting  the  Atlantic  and  the  Pacific; 
associated  with  Stanford,  Crocker  and  Hopkins. 

75.  Mark  Hopkins,  of  San  Francisco. 

One  of  the  original  projectors  and  builders  of  the  first  railroad  system  across 
the  continent,  and  a  promoter  and  Director  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.   Mr.  Hopkins  ■ 
died  some  years  ago. 

76.  Reward  Poster— $2,500  for  the  parties  who  robbed 

the  stage  between  Colfax  and  Grass  Valley,  Cal.,  July 
27,  1873. 

77.  "  The  Last  Race  "  between  the  old  ' '  McLaughlin ' ' 

and  "  Cameron  "  Stage  lines,  run  between  Oakland  and 
San  ]os6,  Cal. 

The  rivalry  between  these  two  lines  frequently  manifested  itself  on  the  road 
in  trials  of  speed,  interesting  both  to  passengers  and  beholders. 

15 


78.  Photo  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Bank, 

San  Francisco,  corner  Market,  Sutter  and  Sansome 
streets;  present  location. 

Since  leaving  the  "Old  Office  "  on  Montgomery  Street  (No.  34)  the  Express  and 
Bank  have  occupied  separate  buildings,  within  convenient  distance  of  each  other; 
they  are  now  a  block  and  a  half  apart,  which  does  not  count  for  much  in  a  large 
city  like  San  Francisco. 

79.  Tariff  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Express,  for 

the  Atlantic  States,  Canada  and  Europe. 

80.  Money  Order  Poster  (latest  design) — a  facsimile 

of  an  Order  itself. 

81.  Photo  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Office  at 

Austin,  Nev.,  1866. 

Austin,  Nev.,  is  the  location  of  the  silver-mining  camp  famous  in  those  days 
as  the  "  Reese  River  "  District ;  now  for  some  j-ears  past  in  a  state  of  decadence  in 
common  with  other  once  noted  and  prosperous  mining  camps.  Mr.  William 
Pridham,  who  was  a  clerk  in  the  office,  appears  in  the  picture.  He  is  now  Assist- 
ant Superintendent  of  the  Southwestern  Division,  with  Headquarters  at  Los 
Angeles,  Cal. 

82.  Office  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.  and  U.  S.  Stage 

Co.,  at  Bodie,  Cal. 

The  stages  are  about  starting  for  Carson  and  Virginia,  Nev.  Bodie  enjoyed  at 
first  an  era  of  marked  prosperity,  which  continued  for  awhile,  and  until  the 
radical  decline  of  the  mineral  product  of  that  region. 

83.  Reward  Poster — $1,700  reward  for  persons  who 

robbed  the  Downieville  Stage,  November  15,  1876. 

84.  View  of  San  Francisco  in  1849. 

Compared  with  the  San  Francisco  of  to-day,  but  little  more  than  a  generation 
later,  it  forcibly  illustrates  the  phenomenal  growth  and  development  resulting 
from  American  enterprise. 


85.   Photo— Staging    Between,  Confronting 
Railroad  Termini,  1887. 

The  picture  represents  the  stages  of  the  California,  Oregon  and  Idaho  Stage 
Co.  crossing  the  Siskiyou  Mountains  on  their  daily  trips,  bridging  a  still  open  gap 
on  the  California  and  Oregon  Railroad.  Eight  six-horse  coaches  each  way  were 
required  in  the  daily  service. 

IC 


86.  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  New  Office  at  I«os 

Angeles,  Cal. 

The  office,  which  was  remodeled  in  1892,  is  centrally  located,  and  is  very 
complete  in  its  interior  arrangements. 

87.  Interior  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Office 

at  L,os  Angeles,  Cal.    See  No.  86. 

88.  Old  "Ad "  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Ex- 

press, i8— . 

89.  Duplicate  of  No.  22.    ("  The  Days  of  '49.") 

90.  Exchange  Business  Poster  W.  F.  &  Co's 

Bank,  announcing  to  the  public  that  drafts  will  be 
furnished,  payable  in  all  parts  of  the  world. 

91.  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's   First  Advertise- 

ment, 1852.  (Photographed.) 

Tlie  undertakings  of  the  Company  have  changed  but  little  since  then,  and 
that  more  in  the  extent  tlian  tlie  character  of  bu.?iness  handled. 

92.  "Ad"   of   Barton's   Southern  Express, 

running  between  Rochester  and  Bath,  N.  Y.,  1846. 

Livingston  &  Wells,  of  the  founders  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.,  were  Agents  of 
Barton's  Express,  at  Rocliester. 

93.  L,eaf  from   an   Old   Way-bill  Record, 

Wells  &  Co's  Express.  Way-bill  No.  i,  from  Cincinati, 
O.,  to  Buffalo,  N.  Y.,  September  10,  1845. 

Also  Blank  Receipt  op  Same  Express,  among  the  proprietors  of  whicli 
were  Henry  Wells,  and  Wm.  G.  Fargo,  who  subsequently  founded  Wells,  Fargo 
&  Co.  The  line  connected  at  Buffalo  with  Livingston  &  Wells'  Express,  tor 
New  York,  Boston  and  Philadelphia. 

94.  Table  of  Distances  Over  Wells,  Fargo 

&  Co's  Pacific  Coast  Routes,  1856. 

95.  Special  Deposit  Receipt  of  the  Pacific 

Express  Co.,  1855. 

Note  the  peculiar  description  of  deposit,  and  conditions  of  surrender:  "  Said 
to  contain  dollars  value  in  P/accr  joW;  deliverable  *  *  *  on  the  pay- 
ment of  one  and  a  lialf  per  cent  a  month."  Financial  methods,  as  well  as 
fashions,  have  undergone  changes  since  then. 

17 


96.   Sacramento    Valley  R.  R.  "Ad,"   as  it 

appeared  in  the  State  Register,  1857.  (Photographed.) 


97.    Henry  C.  Ward,  W.  F.  &  Go's  Traveling  Inspector 
of  Wagons  and  vStock. 

Mr.  Ward  was  amoner  the  oldest  stage-drivers  on  the  Coast.  He  drove  between 
San  Friincisco  and  San  .Jos6  in  1S49.  After  Bccurinf;  cmplovment  with  Wells 
Fargo  &  Co.,  later  on,  his  versatile  talents  found  wider  scope,  and  he  has  figured 
as  driver,  shotgun  messenger  (or  guard),  detective,  and  general  expert  in  matters 
relating  to  stock  and  stable  equipment. 


98.  "Ad"  of  The  Overland  Mail  Co.  (via  Los 

Angeles),  from  the  State  Register,  1859.  (Photo- 
graphed.) 

99.  Original  Bill  of  Exchange,  No.  i,  San  Fran- 

cisco, July  13,  1852,  drawn  by  Wells,  Fargo  &  Go's 
Bank  for  $100,  order  Mrs.  Sophia  Parker,  BufiFalo,  N.  Y. 

100.  "Across  the  Continent,"  a  pen-and-ink  draw- 
ing, by  Aaron  Stein,  then  attached  to  the  Gompany's 
office  at  Salt  Lake  City,  now  Assistant  to  President 
Valentine. 

The  drawing  was  made  expresslv  to  hand  down  to  posterity  an  accurate  repre- 
sentation of  the  wagons  (known  as  Mud  Wagons")  used  in  the  overland  service, 
remarkable  more  for  strength  and  steady-going  qualities  than  beauty.  The  scene' 
is  laid  West  of  Salt  Lake  City,  where  the  wagons  in  use  differed  slightly  from 
those  on  Ilolladay's  line,  eastward  of  that  city,  the  extra  low  setting  of  the  box 
on  the  axles  making  them  less  liable  to  capsize,  though  detracting  from  their 
looks,  as  compared  with  the  other  model.  The  fidelity  of  the  drawing  was  gen- 
erally recognized  by  the  public,  and  it  has  been  reproduced  in  several  publica- 
tions, at  home  and  abroad,  illustrative  of  the  times. 

The  Overland  Mail  Company  was  an  adjunct  of  Wells,  Fargo  A  Co.,  organ- 
ized by  the  same  public-spirited  citizens,  in  1858,  to  carry  the  U.  S.  Mail  across 
the  continent  along  a  secure  northerly  route  after  the  vicissitudes  of  war  had 
rendered  the  more  southerly  route,  under  other  auspices,  impracticable.  It  held 
the  through  contract  for  that  service,  from  Atchison,  Kansas,  to  Placerville,  Cal., 
but  sublet  both  the  Eastern  and  Western  extremities — the  former,  Atchison  to  Sait 
Lake  City,  to  the  Holladay  Overland  Mail  and  Express  Company;  the  latter,  Vir- 
^nia  City,  Nevada,  to  Placerville,  Cal.,  to  the  Pioneer  Stage  Co.;  reserving  for 
Itself  the  road  from  Salt  Lake  City  to  Virginia,  Nevada. 


101.    Bill  of  Exchange,  No.  215,864,  drawn  at  San 
Francisco  April  19,  1862. 

The  first  bill  of  the  kind  (No.  1)  having  been  drawn  by  the  Company  July 
13,  1852,  some  idea  may  be  gathered  from  this  of  the  activity  there  was  in  that 
line  of  business  during  the  first  decade  of  the  Company's  existence. 


18 


102.  "Ad"  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.,  1859,  as 

it  appeared  in  the  State  Register,  a  California  publica- 
tion got  out  in  book  form,  after  the  style  of  a  city 
director}'.  (Photographed.) 

103.  Aaron  Y.  Ross,  a  Messenger  of  W.  F.  &  Co., 
who  proved  himself  a  match  in  siege  tactics  for  five 
desperate  and  determined  highwaymen. 

"  Ife  held  the  fort,"  literally,  for  three  long  hours  aud  tweuty  minutes,  at 
Montello  Station,  ifevada,  on  the  Central  Pacific  Railroad  near  the  Utah  line, 
where  the  train  on  which  he  was  messenger  was  stopped  by  robbers,  July  22, 
1883,  who  were  baffled  of  their  purpose  by  his  stubborn  rel'usal  to  surrender  and 
admit  them  within  the  express  car.  A  brisk  exchange  of  shots  followed,  during 
which  Ross  was  wounded  in  the  hand,  while  he  more  seriously  wounded  one  of 
the  robbers ;  then  attempts  were  made  to  set  fire  to  the  car  and  smoke  him  out ; 
and  finally  dynamite  was  put  in  requisition ;  but  nothing  could  dislodge  the 
resolute  Boss,  and  the  robbers  fearing  an  alarm  had  spread  and  help  was 
approaching  withdrew,  completely  discomfited.  All  were  arrested  soon  after, 
and  retired  to  the  Nevada  State  Penitentiary,  where  the  wounded  robber  died. 
Ross  still  lives. 

'^104.    "Ad"  of  Wells,   Fargo   &  Co.,  1857. 

(Photo.) 

105.  Petition  of  Merchants  and  Others  of 
Shasta,  Cal.,  dated  May  25,  1855,  requesting  W.  F. 
&  Co.  to  Establish  an  Office  there. 

After  the  failure  of  Adams  &  Co.,  1855,  this  important  mining  camp  and 
settlement  was  cut  oflf  from  business  communication  with  San  Francisco.  Hence 
the  appeal,  which,  of  course,  was  promptly  responded  to. 

106.  "  Chips  "  (Pillsbury  Hodgkins),  a  celebrated  Express 
character  of  the  Early  Mining  Days,  who  served  with 
W.  F.  &  Co.,  principally  as  Messenger,  for  Forty  Con- 
secutive Years — 1852-92. 

"  Chips,"  as  known  and  addressed  all  over  the  Pacific  Coast  by  his  most 
intimate  Iriends,  was  baptized  Pillsbury  Hodgkins,  a  secret  not  generally  con- 
fided to  the  public.  lie  made  the  trip  to  California  in  a  sailing  vessel  around 
Cape  Horn,  during  which  he  acquired  his  nickname,  by  reason  of  being  the  ship's 
carpenter,  and  the  nautical  custom  of  dubbing  those  employed  on  shipboard  with 
a  name  indicative  of  their  calling.  Thus  the  doctor  becomes  "Sawbones;"  and  the 
cook,  with  less  perceptible  propriety,  becomes  "Doctor."  Landed  on  ifr-ra^rma 
Chips  soon  gravitated  into  the  Express  service,  and,  as  a  messenger,  frequented  the 
various  mining  camps  along  his  route,  mounted  upon  a  mule^  and  packing  away  to 
"  Frisco"  gold  dustLthe  aggregate  quantity  and  value  ot  which  would  seem 
almost  incredible.  He  was  extremely  popular  wherever  he  went,  and  deserved 
to  be  60,  for  his  cheerful  disposition  and  accommodating  spirit.  He  endured  all 
sorts  of  hardships  and  exposure  to  danger  peculiar  to  the  early  days,  and  on  at 
least  one  occasion  was  closely  pursued  by  designing  highwaymen  whom  he 
artfully  eluded.    He  celebrated  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  his  career  as  a 

19 


messenger  durinR  the  centeonial  year  (1876)  under  highly  flattering  cireumstaoces, 
and  continued  lo  serve  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.  in  positions  of  trust  and  responsibility 
until  near  his  death,  which  occurred  in  September,  1892.  It  has  been  truly  said 
of  him,  "He  was  never  short  a  package;"  which  shows  an  attention  to  his 
duties  Cully  nccounting  for  hi.s  good  standing  with  the  public  and  the  Company. 

107.  Pony  Express  Abstracts,  Way-bills  and  State- 
ment. Also  Old-stylk  Envelopes  and  Messen- 
gers' Reports.  From  the  collection  of  the  late 
Messenger,  "Chips." 

108.  General  Tariff  W.  F.  &  Co's  Express, 
i868. 

109.  Exchange— Order  Tariff  W.  F.  &  Co's 
Bank ;  instructions  lo  Agents  in  regard  to  selling 
the  Domestic  and  Foreign  Exchange  of  the  Company. 

110.  "  The  Start Oroville  and  Big  >Ieadow 
Stage,  Mrs.  Mary  B.  Langdon  holding  the  L,ines. 

This  is  one  of  three  photos — 110,  111  and  112 — forming  a  series  of  improvised 
tableaux,  illustrating  the  crucial  experience  to  which  travelers  by  stage  in  the 
West  are  liable  to  be  subjected.  We  call  this  "  The  Start" — time,  early  morning 
— all  sot  for  a  pleasant  and  bracing  ride. 

111.  «Held  Up." 

Some  hours  later.  The  same  stage  brought  suddenly  and  unceremonionsly  to 
a  halt.    "Oft"!  and  into  line,  every  mother's  son  of  you!    Hold  up  your  hanofll" 

112.  "  Going  Through  'em." 

The  unfortunate  passengers  of  the  same  stage  are  being  relieved  of  their  caah 
and  valuables  through  the  persuasive  eloquence  of  a  six-shooter.  The  representa- 
tions are  said  to  be  very  true  to  the  reality,  by  persons  who  have  "been  thar." 
Mrs.  Langdon,  the  imperturbable  driver,  who  quietly  looks  after  the  team  mean- 
while, not  only  enjoys  the  reputation  of  being  one  of  the  best  four-in-hand  drivers 
on  the  Coast,  but  also  the  remarkable  distinction  of  being  the  only  woman  mail 
contractor  in  the  United  States. 

113.  "Buck"  rHontgomery,  a  Shotgun  Messenger 
of  W.  F.  &  Co.,  who  was  murdered  by  the  Ruggles 
brothers  when  those  miscreants  attacked  the  Redding 
and  Shasta  stage  on  the  evening  of  May  14,  1892, 
which  he,  as  "Guard,"  defended. 

The  robbers  secured  nothing  of  much  value,  and  were  soon  run  down,  one 
after  the  other,  and  captured.  They  were  confined  in  jail  at  Ecdding,  where 
they  became  the  objects  of  morbid  and  offensive  feminine  sympathy;  a  mob 
of  indignant  citizens  laid  violent  hands  on  them  and  hung  them  side  by  side  in  a 
conspicuous  part  of  the  city,  near  the  railway  station,   {see  No.  121.) 


20 


114.  George  D,  Roberts,  the  heroic  but  finally  van- 
quished defender  of  the  Express  Car  against  the  savage 
and  determined  attack  of  Evans  and  Sontag,  at  Collis 
Station,  on  the  line  of  the  Southern  Pacific  Railroad, 
August  3,  1892. 

The  struggle  was  maintained  by  liim  until  seven  ilynaniite  l)oinl)s  had  lieeu 
discharged  successively  against  the  car  hy  the  robbers,  and  a  wide  l)reach  was 
effected,  when  Roberta  surrendered  himself,  a  badly  shaken  up  and  broken-down 
hero,  and  his  car  and  its  contents  a  complete  wreck.    (See  No.  66.) 


115.   «  Pony  "  Stamps. 

A  complete  set  of  the  franks  or  paid  stamps  used  for  correspondence  carried 
by  the  Pocy  Express,  across  tlie  continent.  Very  rare.    (See  No.  133.) 


116.  Express  Kraiiks,  or  Government  Envelopes, 
bearing  a  special  Imprint  to  show  Prepayment  and 
Carriage  by  Express. 


117.   Interior  of  W.  F.  &  Co's  Office  at  San 
Jose,  Cat.;  Mr.  Elliott  Reed,  the  veteran  agent  of 
the  Compau}',  in  charge. 
The  office  was  recently  remodeled. 


118.  Public  Circular  Describing  Black  Bart, 

whose  apprehension  is  requested,  and  giving  a  .speci- 
men of  the  doggerel  he  was  in  the  habit  of  leaving 
behind  after  a  successful  foray. 

His  muse  has  been  silent  since  his  professional  career  was  abruptly  ended  by 
arrest  and  imprisonment,  some  years  ago.  He  is  now  at  large,  if  not  dead.  (See 
Nos.  64  and  161.) 

119.  Treasure  Box— a  memento  of  tlie  attack  on  the 
Redding  and  Alturas  stage,  1892. 

The  stage  left  San  Andreas  at  early  morning  April  30,  1892,  for  Sheep  Ranch, 
with  tlie  box,  containing  a  large  amount  of  money  for  paying  the  miners  at  that 
camp,  Mike  Tovey  (see  No.  33)  the  Guard,  seated  by  tlie  driver,  as  also  a  young 
lady.  Miss  Kodersino,  on  the  same  seat.  A  sister  of  the  lady  and  one  gentleman 
occupied  the  inside.  At  a  favorable  spot  on  the  road  a  masked  man  emerged  from 
behind  a  tree  and,  without  a  word  of  warning,  fired  both  barrels  of  a  shotgun  in 
the  direction  of  the  driver,  killing  Miss  llodersino  instantly;  mortally  wounding 
the  driver,  Ruggio,  a  brother  of  the  proprietor:  and  wounding  the  guard  in  the 
arm.  Tovey  seized  the  reins,  and  with  the  dead  body  of  the  young  lady  lying  at 
his  feet,  and  the  dying  Ruggio  by  her  side  manipulating  the  brake,  managed  to 
place  the  stage  and  its  precious  cargo  beyond  reach  of  the  robber,  who  was  never 
discovered. 


21 


120.  Bullion  Sandal.  Sample  of  the  stout  Leather 
support  used  for  handling  and  transporting  Bars  of 
Bullion,  the  dead  weight  of  which  made  them  decid- 
edly inconvenient  to  otherwise  lift  and  carry. 

This  is  the  most  primitive  form  of  appliance  for  handling  bullion  bars. 

121.  Broken  Treasure  Box;  a  relic  of  the  Redding 
and  Shasta  Stage  Robbery,  on  the  evening  of  May  14, 
1892,  by  the  Ruggles  Brothers. 

The  stage  was  within  live  miles  of  its  destination  (Redding)  when  it  was  con- 
fronted by  the  usual  apparition  of  a  masked  man  leveling  a  double-barreled 
shotgun  at  the  driver,  and  the  order  to  "  Pull  up,  and  throw  out  the  E.ipress  box." 
The  driver  promptly  complied.  Meanwhile,  the  guard.  Buck  Montgomery,  who 
occupied  a  seat  inside,  from  which  he  caught  a  glimpse  of  what  was  going  on, 
opened  fire  on  the  robber,  who  dropped  to  his  knees  at  the  first  shot,  but  a  moment 
later  discharged  botli  barrels  of  his  gun  at  the  stage.  The  driver  dropped  from 
his  seat  to  the  foot-board  with  five  buckshot  in  hisriglit  leg  near  the  knee,  and 
two  in  his  left  leg;  a  passenger  by  his  side  also  dropped,  with  three  or  fjur  buck- 
shot in  his  legs.  Betore  the  guard  could  reload,  two  shots  came  from  behind  the 
bushes  back  of  the  exposed  robber,  and  "  Buck  "  fell  to  the  bottom  of  the  stage 
mortally  wounded,  sliot  through  the  back.  The  whole  murderous  sally  occupied 
but  H  few  seconds,  and  the  order  came  to  "Drive  on!"  Arrived  at  Redding, 
officers  and  citizensquickly  started  in  pursuit,  and  the  next  day  one  of  the  robbers, 
who  proved  to  be  Cliarlcs  Ruggles,  a  well-known  young  man  of  that  vicinity,  son 
of  a  respectable  farmer  in  Fresno  County,  was  overtaken  and  arrested.  A  mouth 
later  his  brother  John,  the  chief  culprit  in  the  crime,  was  captured  at  a  restau- 
rant at  Woodland,  and  lodged  with  him  in  the  jail  at  Redding.  Their  case 
excited  much  interest,  considering  the  youth,  and  family  connection  of  the  rob- 
bers, and  on  the  part  of  charitably  disposed  women  created  a  demonstrative 
sympathy  which  speedily  proved  fatal  to  the  offenders  against  law  and  public 
safety,  as  stated  in  connection  with  No.  11.3,  which  see. 

122.  Bullion  Bag^  ordinary  model,  for  conveniently 
handling  and  carrying  bars  of  silver. 

123.  An  Iron  Stage  Box,  Hacked  by  a  Rob- 
ber, in  vain  attempts  to  force  it  open. 

In  this  instance  a  lone  highwayman  stopped  the  stage  en  route  from  ililton 
to  Sonora,  Cal.,  December  29,  1881,  and  "  held  up"  the  driver  and  two  passengers. 
After  going  through  the  Mail  and  such  of  the  Express  as  was  lying  around  loose, 
he  occupied  himself  for  an  hour  and  a  half  in  a  desperate  effort  to  break  into  the 
sturdy  treasure  receptacle.  In  the  meanwhile  three  other  luckless  wayfarers 
happened  along,  all  of  whom  he  stood  in  line  with  the  rest  and  detained  until  he 
tired  of  his  unsuccessful  labors.  The  cool  and  daring  rascal  was  caught  subse- 
quently, and  sent  to  State  Prison  for  five  years. 

124.  Bullion  Bag,  squared  sides,  to  hold  the  extra  large 
silver  bars,  averaging  250  pounds  in  weight,  shipped 
in  that  form  from  Arizona  mines,  with  the  view  to 
baffle  and  circumvent  wayside  robbers. 

125.  An  Old-Time  Treasure  Box,  one  of  the 

earliest  models. 

22 


126.  The  Oldest  Railroad  Free  Pass  in 
Existence,  and  another  among  the  oldest.  The 
Passes  are  over  the  Boston  and  Lowell  Railroad — 1836 
and  1837. 

The  Pass  in  favor  of  W.  C.  Gray,  whose  friends  dispute  with  those  of  W.  F. 
Harnden  for  the  honor  of  his  having  originated  the  Express  business,  is  to  afford 
him  free  transportation  account  the  express  traffic  he  carried  over  the  road 
as  a  regular  business.  It  establishes  an  earlier  date  of  beginning  the  business 
than  any  claim  for  Harnden,  and  seems  to  incontrovertibly  settle  the  question  of 
priority  in  Gray's  favor.  That,  as  a  railroad  pass,  it  antidates  all  others  has  been 
equally  well  established  by  the  fact  that  a  challenge  for  proof  to  the  contrary, 
published  some  years  ago,  failed  to  elicit  an  answer. 

127.  A  Leather  "  Grip,"  purchased  in  1840  for  E.  M. 
Sargent,  a  Messenger  in  the  service  of  Gray's  Express, 
referred  to  in  No  126.    Mr.  S.  is  still  living. 

128.  Sundry  Old-Pasliioned  Pistols,  formerly 
used  by  Messengers  of  W.  F.  &  Co. 

That  of  the  redoubtable  "  Chips"  is  among  the  number — a  so-called  "  Pepper 
Box,"  which  he  brought  with  him  when  emigrating  to  California.  All  these 
weapons  have  long  since  been  discarded,  and  the  more  modern  and  improved 
models  have  taken  their  place  in  the  service. 

129.  Chips'  Spurs,  the  "persuaders"  with  which  he 
accelerated  the  speed  of  his  long-eared  quadruped  (the 
mule).    (vSee  106.) 

130.  Book  of  Common  Prayer.  "For  u.se  of 
employes  in  the  Home  Office. ' ' 

This  book  has  been  iu  the  possession  of  a  piously  inclined  officer  of  W.  F.  <fc 
Co.  for  many  years,  and  suggests  the  solid  foundation  on  which  the  service  was 
built.  It  seems  to  open  most  readily  on  the  "  Solemnization  of  Matrimony," 
which  is  significant  of  the  practical  direction  moral  culture  took  among  the  boys. 

131.  Relics  of  the  Train  Robbery,  west  of 
Deming,  N.  M.,  on  the  through  line  of  the  Southern 
Pacific  Railroad,  November  24,  1883.  A  mask,  a  plane, 
a  chisel,  a  small  iron  bar,  and  a  pair  of  sandals  made 
from  a  saddle. 

Four  men  were  engaged  iu  this  roljbery,  who,  after  wrecking  the  train,  shot 
and  killed  the  engineer,  robbed  W.  F.  <fc  Co's  Express  and  the  Mail,  finding  little 
of  value  in  cither.  To  make  \ip  for  this  deficiency,  they  took  $100  coin  and  a  watch 
from  the  conductor  of  the  train,  and  $155  from  R.  O.  Gaskill,  of  the  U  S.  Publish- 
ing Co.,  Chicago,  who  happened  aboard.  About  two  months  later  all  four  were 
arrested  and  jailed,  but  managed  to  escape ;  and  in  the  recapture  which  followed 
they  instantly  killed  one  of  the  Sheriff's  possCj  one  of  their  own  number  being 
killed  also.  Another  of  the  robbers  succeeded  in  eludinjj  the  officers.  The  two 
re-arrested  were  lynched  on  the  spot  to  atone  for  the  estimable  citizen  whose  life 
they  had  sacrificed.    The  fugitive  was  relentlessly  pursued,  aud  secured  some 

23 


weeks  later,  after  a  desperate  fight  in  which  he  was  so  severely  wounde<l  in  the 
leg  that  it  became  necessary  to  twice  amputate  it.     He  was  given  the  benefit  of 
trial,  and,  by  reason  of  his  respectable  family  connections,  his  crippled  condition 
and  possibly  his  youth,  the  verdict  of  the  jury  was  for  murder  in  the  second 
degree.   He  was  convicted  Nov.  20, 1884. 

132.  A  Bogus  Bar.  What  purported  to  be  Gold,  and 
was  valued  at  $2,500,  proved  to  be  Lead. 

The  bar,  iuclosed  in  a  wooden  box.  was  shipped  under  seal  from  San  Fran- 
cisco by  responsible  j)arties,  consigned  to  a  firm  in  London,  England ;  and  iU 
bogus  nature  only  discovered  when  the  box  was  opened  at  destination  in  the 
presence  of  the  consignees  and  W.  F.  <fc  Co's  agent.  It  was  returned  to  San 
1-  rancisco,  where  investigation  developed  the  fact  that  it  bore  assay  marks  identi- 
cal with  those  of  u  genuine  bar,  the  possessors  of  which  were  traced;  warranting 
the  inference  that  a  fraudulent  casting,  reproducing  the  original,  had  been  made 
and  imposed,  undercover,  upon  the  Express.  Wells,  Fargo  <k  Co.  fairly  estab- 
lished Its  innocence  and  was  not  called  on  to  make  good  a  feigned  loss. 

133.  Pony  Express  Letter-Dater.  A  bras.s  stamp 
used  on  Pony  Letters  at  San  Francisco  office,  to  mark 
the  day  of  departure. 

The  artist,  by  selecting  for  his  typical  object  an  unfettered  steed  galloping  at 
full  speed,  seems  to  have  strained  more  than  a  point  to  convey  the  idea  of  rapid 
transit,  by  entirely  sacrificing  the  rider  and  his  \etU:T-j>ouc\i—fveryHiing  in  fact— 
to  emphasize  that  feature.  The  vignette  on  the  Ponv  Stamp  (No.  ll.",)  does  more 
exact  justice  to  the  subject. 

134.  Office  Seal  Adams  &  Co's  Express,  used 
at  Auburn,  Cal.,  up  to  the  time  when  that  Company 
failed,  1855. 

135.  Office  Seal  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Express, 

used  in  Auburn,  Cal.,  1855,  and  onwards. 

136.  "  Guide  Book  of  the  Pacific."  Published  in 
San  Francisco,  1865. 

137.  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Express  Directory, 

1856.  A  shipping  Guide  Book  published  by  the 
Company  at  intervals  for  many  years,  which  located 
Names  of  Towns  and  Camps  throughout  the  Pacific 
Coast,  and  gave  the  name  of  the  nearest  Express  Office. 
It  was  designed  for  use  of  their  own  agents. 

138.  Harnden's  Yalise  (or  Leather  "Grip-Sack"); 
illustrating  the  humble  origin  of  the  Express  Business. 

"  Large  trees  from  little  acorns  grow." 
This  leather  valise  was  used  by  Wm.  F.  Harnden  (generally  considered 
the  father  of  the  Express  business)  for  carrying  the  express  then  known  by  big 
name,  for  which  it  afforded  ample  accommodations.     Mr.  HarnHen  was  bom  in 
Reading,  Mass.,  1812 ;  was  conductor  on  the  Boston  &  Worcester  R.  R.,  1837  •  ami 


24 


ticket  agent  in  1838.  He  started  his  express  in  1839,  the  service  extending  from 
Boston  to  New  York,  via  the  Providence  Railroad  and  N.  Y.  Steamboat  Com- 

Eany'sliue.  In  1840  he  established  a  "European  Express,"  so  called.  Though 
is  claim  to  being  the  originator  of  the  Express  business  has  been  disputed,  it  is 
certain  he  was  the  finst  to  place  it  on  a  firm  and  progressive  footing.  He  died  at 
Mount  Auburn,  near  Boston,  January,  1845.    (See  140.) 


139.  L,eatlier  Valise,  or  "Grip;"  all  that  was 
Recovered  of  a  Messenger  who  Lost  his  Life  in  a 
Steamer  Disaster,  1840. 

The  unfortunate  owner  of  the  valise  was  Adolphus  Haknden,  a  brother  of 
William  F.,  the  founder  of  the  Express  business.  He  was  traveling  as  messenger 
on  the  Steamer  Lexington,  which  was  burnt  on  Long  Island  Sound,  on  the  night 
of  January  13, 1840,  his  being  one  of  many  lives  lost.  All  that  is  known  of  his 
bearing  on  the  awful  occasion  is  indicative  of  the  stern  devotion  to  duty  that  has 
on  similar  occasions  characterized  that  class  of  public  servants.  He  had  removed 
from  a  storage  crate  on  board  his  iron  sate,  containing  about  $40,000,  in  the  hope 
of  getting  it  into  one  of  the  small  boats  of  the  steamer  after  the  passengers — 
as  many  could  be — were  got  ashore ;  but  the  boats  were  capsized  in  the  lieavy 
seas  rolling  at  the  time,  and  it  is  thought  he  was  washed  overboard  from  the 
steamer  before  accomplishing  his  purpose.    (See  140.) 


140.  Recent  Letter  from  Mr.  B.  P.  Cheney,  of 
Boston,  the  owner  of  Nos.  [38  and  139,  attesting 
their  Authenticity.    (See  No.  12.) 


141.   One  of  the  Early  Settlers  of  California 

(Crayon  drawing  after  Nabl) — "Samson;"  the  largest 
Grizzly  every  brought  into  captivity. 

Samson  was  trapped  by  Charles  Capen  Adams,  the  noted  California  hunter 
and  trapper,  September,  1854,  and  was  long  one  of  the  leading  attractions  at  the 
Pacific  Museum,  established  by  Adams  in  San  Francisco.  Although  he  endured 
restraint  for  years,  it  was  found  impossible  to  reduce  in  the  slightest  degree  his 
natural  ferocity.    His  weight  when  captured  was  nearly  1,800  pounds. 


142.  Captain  James  B.  Hume,  Chief  Detective 
Officer  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.,  San  Francisco,  and 
Samuel,  the  son  of  his  ripe  years. 

Captain  Hume  spent  the  first  twenty-two  years  of  his  California  life  in 
El  Dorado  County,  of  which  he  was  at  one  time  Sheriff.  He  accepted  a  call  from 
W.  E.  &  Co.  to  his  present  position  in  March,  1872,  and  has  well  maintained  his 
reputation  as  a  skillful  and  successful  guardian  of  the  trust  reposed  in  him. 

143.  Captain  John  N.  Thacker,  the  associate  of 
Captain  Hume  in  the  Detective  Service  of  the  Com- 
pany ;  the  Special  Officers'  Department,  at  San  Fran- 
cisco. 

Thaoker  is  almost  constantly  on  the  move,  and  no  amount  of  danger  from  the 
lawless  and  revengeful  characters  of  whom  he  is  in  tireless  pursuit  deters  him 
from  the  work  of  eliminatiugthat  class  from  the  population,  and  retiring  them  to 
prison  cells. 

25 


144.  A  Reminiscence  of  the  Greeley  Presi- 
dential Campaign.  Horace  Greeley  en  route 
to  the  White  House,  1872. 

It  is  a  compliment  to  the  artist  who  executed  No.  100  that  this  cartoon  is 
almost  a  literal  adaptation  of  his  spirited  drawing.  It  is  a  sad  reminder,  also, 
of  Mr.  Greeley's  failure  to  get  there,  and  of  tlie  sudden  death,  soon  after,  of  that 
wise  and  good  man. 

145.  A  Family  Group.  Photographic  portraits  of 
Officers  and  Employes  prominently  connected  with 
W.  F.  &  Co.  Taken  in  1885  ;  a  study  for  Physiogno- 
mists. 

146.  A  Department  ]^anager  and  Staff.  The 

officer  (Col.  Evans)  in  charge  of  the  Central  Depart- 
ment W.  F.  &  Co's  Express,  and  his  immediate  assist- 
ants.   To  be  studied  in  connection  with  No.  145. 

147.  Roughing  It ;  a  terminal  E.Kprcss  Office  on  the 
Overland  Line  while  the  first  great  Pacific  Railroads 
were  being  built. 

The  ofiSce  is  located  outdoors,  on  "  The  Plains,"  fast  of  Cheyenne, Wyo.  Ty., 
where  through  passengers  were  transferred  from  the  cars  to  stages.  Jo.  S. 
Roberson,  one  of  the  ablest  and  most  experienced  of  western  expressmen,  was  the 
resident  agent,  and  while  occupying  this  picket  line  seems  to  have  whiled  away 
the  tedium  between  trains  by  perusing  the  newspapers  and  conversing  with  his 
canine  assistant.  The  ready  revolver  is  suggestive  of  the  moral  atmosphere 
pervading  the  exposed  locality. 

148.  Hank  9Ionk,  the  noted  Stage-driver  of  the  Sierras. 

Mr.  Monk  was  one  of  Ihe  drivers  of  the  Pioneer  Stage  Co's  line — that  rare 
and  unrivaled  model  of  stage  equipment  and  service  that  carried  tlie  U.  S.  mail 
from  Virginia  City,  Nevada,  to  Placerville,  Cal.,  in  the  transition  days  of  the 
Pacific  Coast — and  by  his  professional  skill  and  accommodating  disposition  made 
friends  with  everybody  he  carried,  and  reaped  a  national  reputation.  Stage- 
drivers  on  the  Overland  through-line,  as  a  class,  were,  in  their  manners  and  mental 
culture,  very  far  above  the  popular  conception  of  them  entertained  in  the  Eastern 
States.  The  crowning  efiort  of  Hank  Monk  was  when,  in  1859,  he  had  Horace 
Greeley  for  a  timid  and  anxious  passenger.  His  "  Keep  your  seal,  Horace;  I'll 
get  you  there  on  time ! "  long  continued  a  popular  phrase  west  an<l  east. 
Monk  died  February  28,  188,'5,  at  the  age  of  nfly,  and  lies  buried  in  the 
cemetery  near  Carson,  the  Capital  of  Nevada,  a  town  on  the  line  of  his  labors  and 
exploits  as  a  driver.    (See  No.  144.) 

149.  W.  H.  Taylor  ("Shotgun  Taylor"),  one  of 
the  best  known  and  most  celebrated  managers  of  the 
Stage  Service  in  the  West. 

Mr.  Taylor  took  his  first  degrees  in  the  business  with  the  Pioneer  Stage  Co.,  as 
purchaser  of  stock;  then  as  driver,  in  which  capacity  be  fairly  divided  the 


26 


honors  with  Hank  Monk,  whom  he  excelled  in  apparently  reckless  daring.  His 
chief  exploit  in  thatline  was  when  Speaker  Schuyler  Colfax  and  his  distinguished 
party  made  a  tour  of  the  Pacific  Coast,  18G5,  which  furnished  a  copious  topic  of 
journalistic  comment  at  the  time.  The  party  consisted  of  Colfax,  and  three  of 
the  leading  newspaper  men  of  the  country — ex-Governor  Bross,  of  tlie  Chicago 
Tribune;  Samuel  Bowles,  of  the  Springfield  Republican ;  and  A.  D.  Rich- 
ardson, of  the  New  York  Tribune.  Taylor  picked  them  up  at  Strawberry  Station, 
on  the  Sierras,  and  landed  them  at  Placerville,  Cal.,  a  distance  of  fifty  miles,  in 
considerably  less  than  four  hours,  pa-ssing  any  number  of  heavy  freight  teams  en 
route  on  the  perilous  mountain  grades.  In  a  speech  made  by  Colfax  on  their 
arrival  at  Placerville,  he  spoke  of  the  performance  in  extravagant  terms  of  com- 
pliment. Taylor  was  made  Superintendent  of  the  Pioneer  line,  1865,  and  was 
transferred  in  1866,  in  the  same  capacity,  to  a  forked  brancli  of  the  main  Overland 
Mail  line,  extending  from  Salt  Lake  City  to  Helena,  Montana,  and  to  Boise  City, 
Idaho,  covering  a  thousand  miles,  where  he  added  to  his  reputation  for  prompt 
and  effective  work.  After  the  railroads  across  the  continent  were  finished  he 
vibrated  between  various  poinis  of  the  Far  West,  filling  in,  on  his  own  account 
and  otherwise,  remaining  gaps  with  the  superior  traveliug  facilities  he  knew  so 
well  how  to  organize  and  run.  He  retired  from  the  stage  business  in  1886,  and  engaged 
in  stock-raising  in  Southern  California;  and,  though  seriously  invalided,  his 
spirits  are  still  as  buoyant  and  irrepressible  as  ever.  Taylor  acquired  his  nickname 
by  "heeling"  himself  on  a  certain  occasion  to  arrange  matters  on  a  permanent 
basis  with  a  freighter  on  the  road  who  had  probably  been  unceremoniously 
hustled  to  one  side  by  him  more  than  once  to  make  room  for  the  U.  S.  ilail,  and 
had  violently  resented  it.  Taylor  soon  after  exei'cised  his  gun  on  him  in  return, 
with  sufiiciently  telling  effect  to  entitle  him  to  the  sobriquet,  admiringlj;  bestowed 
upon  him  by  his  fellow  stage-drivers,  and  which  has  since  adhered  to  him. 

150.  Relics  of  tlie  Folsom  Office  in  the  '50's: 

Treasure  Receipt,  Red  Sticker,  a  Collection,  and  a 
Commi.ssion  Envelope,  leaf  from  the  Old  Horse  book, 
and  a  sample  Check. 

Folsom  was  in  those  days  one  of  the  most  important  of  W.  F.  &  Go's  otBces, 
and  the  center  of  a  rich  raining  di-strict.  It  was  the  terminus  of  the  Sacramento 
Valley  Railroad,  the  first  railroad  built  in  California,  and  the  initial  movement 
(afterwards  abandoned  as  such)  towards  a  trans-continental  line.  From  this  point 
stages  were  dispatched  daily  to  all  parts  of  the  Coast,  and  business  was  lively. 

151.  W.  F.  &  Co's  Office  at  Xogales,  Arizona, 

the  west-side  entrepot  to  Mexico,  located  on  the  line 
of  the  New  Mexico,  Arizona  and  Sonora  R.  R. 

The  office  is  planted  close  to  a  narrow  stream  of  water — the  boundary  line — 
separating  the  United  States  from  the  Sister  Rei)ublic.  A  Custom  House  is  estab- 
lisned  each  side  of  the  stream,  the  officers  of  which  keep  a  sharp  eye  on  the  duties 
to  be  levied  on  imports. 

152.  Autograph  Letter;  written  and  issued  b}- 
Thomas  Janes,  then  Treasurer  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.,  in 
1855,  instructing  Agents  in  regard  to  rendering  settle- 
ments. 

153.  Poster,  dated  Jackson,  Amador  County,  Cal.,  De^. 
2,  1867,  in  regard  to  the  Robbery  of  the  lone  ana 
Latrobe  Stage. 

27 


154.  "Shotgun  Taylor,"  taken  in  1863.  (See 
No.  149.) 

155.  L,,  F.  Rowell,  Superintendent  of  the  Southwestern 
Division,  Pacific  Department,  of  W.  F.&  Go's  Express. 

Mr.  Rowell  is  a  native  of  Vermont,  born  July  2.>,  1828.  When  the  Cali- 
fornia fever  broke  out,  in  1849,  he  was  one  of  the  first  that  took  it.  lie  sailed 
from  Boston,  February  1  of  the  same  year,  and  rounded  The  Horn,  landing  at 
San  Francisco  August  3Ist.  A  few  years  later,  he  took  service  with  Toad's 
E.tpress,  and  when  that  Company  wxs  abiorbeJ  by  \Veir8,  Fargo  <fc  Co.,  August 
lS.i3,  he  was  one  of  the  fortunate  hold-overs.  His  career  since  is  intimately  con- 
nected with  W.  F.  &  Co.  His  official  jurisdiction  comprises  Southern  Caliiornia, 
Arizona,  Western  New  Mexico,  and  Sonora,  >Iexico;  headquarters  San  Francjsco. 

156.  S.  D.  Brastow,  Superintendent  Western  Division, 
Pacific  Department,  W.  F.  &  Go's  Express. 

Mr.  Brastow  arrived  in  California  April  28,  18.^0;  commenced  in  the  Express 
service  with  Cram,  Rogers  &  Co.,  in  th-  Shasta  country,  October  1,  18.32 ;  in  1854 
was  with  Adams  &  Co.,  at  Shasta.  Atier  the  failure  of  Adams  &  (^o.,  he  formed 
a  copartnersliip  and  established  in  18o5  the  Ilor.sley  &  Brastow  Express.  He 
began  with  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co. ,  November  1,  IS  )7,  and  won  his  way  upward  from 
a  messengership  to  the  superintendency  of  a  Division  embrncing  Northern  Cali- 
fornia, Oregon,  Washington,  Idaho,  Utah  and  Nevada,  in  which  capacity  he  is 
now  serving  the  Company.    His  headquarters  are  at  San  Francisco. 

157.  List  of  W.  F.  &  Co's  Offices,  1861. 

158.  Proceedings  of  the  Vigilance  Commit- 
tee, 1856 ;  Scraps  from  the  Sa>i  Francisco  Evening 
Bulletin  (photographed). 

The  clippings  give  an  illustrated  account  (published  at  the  time)  of  the 
assassination  of  .Tames  King  of  William,  eJitorofthe  paper,  by  Casey,  one  of  the 
roughs  of  the  city  who  were  striving  to  maintain  political  ascendancy  in  the  com- 
munity, and  of  the  summary  measures  of  punishment  and  repression  resorted  to, 
after  long  sufferance,  by  leading  citizens  equally  determined  to  preserve  law  and 
order.  The  events  portrayed  and  described  mark  a  well-known  and  important  era 
in  the  wholesome  development  of  the  Pacific  Coast,  and  in  that  way  stand 
related  to  the  F.xpress  business,  with  its  constant  temptations  for  the  lawless,  and 
its  obvious  interest  in  their  subjugation. 

159.  "Bulletin"  Scrap  (photographed),  with  wood- 
cut representing  the  execution  of  Gora  and  Gasey, 
May  22,  1856,  by  the  Gitizen's  organization  styling 
themselves  "The  Vigilance  Gommittee." 

160.  Zachariah  Birdsall,  Superintendent  of  W.  F. 

&  Go's  stable,  at  San  Francisco. 

"  Captain  "  Birdsall,  .is  he  is  familiarly  known,  arrived  in  San  Francisco  1852, 
and  w<nt  to  work  teaming  on  his  own  account.  Two  years  later,  at  the  instance 
of  tb«  Company's  agent,  he  took  charge  of  the  stable  and  stock  in  San  Francisco, 
and  attended  to  the  delivery  of  money  and  valuables,  including  gold-dust  ana 
b)ifs  of  gold  or  silver,  and  in  that  capacity  handled  vast  sums  of  money.  Though 


28 


entitled  to  retirement  for  honoialjie  semce,  prolonged  beyond  the  usual  range,  he 
is  still  on  duty,  keen,  spry  and  vigorous.  His  present  charge  consists  of  sixty-two 
wagons  (all  sizes),  eighty  horses,  and  the  corps  of  grooms  engaged  thereon;  besides 
buying  stock,  forage,  etc. 

161.  "Black  Bart's"  Armament.  The  double- 
barreled  shotguu,  his  sole  aid  in  exploiting  through 
California  as  a  lone  highwayman.  (See  Nos.  64  and 
118.) 

After  his  arrest,  finally,  iu  San  Francisco,  in  the  tasteful  garb  of  a  well-to-do, 
well-behaved  citizen,  an  officer  eagerly  inquired  after  the  absent  weapon.  He 
explained  that  it  lay  secreted  near  the  scene  of  his  last  robbery,  and  indicated  the 
precise  spot,  where,  about  the  same  time,  an  Indian  had  found  it,  though  not  in 
search  of  it.  When  found,  the  stock  of  the  gun  was  neatly  and  closely  wound 
with  copper  wire ;  hut  the  finder,  being  in  need  of  wire  one  day,  inconsiderately 
appropriated  it.  In  other  respects  it  is  just  as  when  Black  IJart  had  it.  He 
usually  carried  it  wrapped  in  his  traveling  blanket,  so  as  to  avoid  having  it  seen. 

162.  Wm.  Pridham,  Assistant  Superintendent  of  Wells, 
Fargo  &  Go's  Express,  L,os  Angeles  District. 

Mr.  Pridham  began  his  express  career  in  the  saddle,  as  "  Pony  Rider,"  in  1861. 
That  service  being  superseded  by  the  through  telegraph,  he  for  many  years  filled 
a  clerkship  in  the  office  at  Austin,  Nevada  ("  Reese  River"  country).  Thence  he 
passed  successively  through  the  higher  degrees  of  clerking  in  the  Sacramento  and 
San  Francisco  offices,  followed  by  a  brief  run  as  messenger  on  a  coast  steamer  (for 
his  health),  and  in  18G8  was  permanently  located  as  Agent  at  Los  Angeles,  Cal.,  a 
town  in  Southern  California,  then  of  note,  and  which  has  since  made  extraordi- 
nary progress  in  size  and  business  importance.  In  1886  Mr.  Pridham  was 
appointed  Assistant  Superintendent,  resident  there,  and  presently  he  was  relieved 
of  the  agency  to  enable  him  to  devote  all  his  time  to  the  general  interests  of  the 
Company  in  that  section.  As  an  illustration  of  how  things  grow  there,  we  are 
reminded  that  he,  on  first  arriving,  did  all  the  work  of  the  office  with  the  help  of 
a  boy;  at  present  the  local  business  gives  employment  to  seventy  men  and  twenty 
horses.  There  are  fifty  trains  moving  in  and  out  of  the  city  daily,  and  sixty  mes- 
sengers center  there. 

163.  E.  Mason  Cooper,  Manager  Pacific  Depart- 
ment W.  F.  &  Go's  Express  ;  Headquarters,  San 
Francisco. 

Mr.  Cooper  has  the  general  management  of  all  the  Company's  offices  west  of 
the  Rocky  Mountains  and  in  Mexico,  his  appointment  to  the  position  dating  back 
to  March,  1884.  He  commenced  with  the  American  Express  Co.  in  Chicago, 
May,  1855,  remaining  there  until  April  1,  1865,  when  he  was  appointed  joint 
agent  of  the  American  and  United  States  Express  Companies  at  Quincy,  111.  He  left 
there  December  15, 1866,  to  take  the  agency  of  the  Merchants'  Union  Express  Co. 
in  Chicago,  111.  In  March,  1868,  he  was  made  Superintenilent  of  the  Illinois  and 
Missouri  Division  of  the  American  Merchants'  Union  Express  Co.,  and  September, 
1869,  went  to  Omaha  and  established  the  Union  Pacific  Express  Co.  January  1, 
1871,  was  appointed  Superintendent  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  lines  in  Kansas. 
Nebraska  and  Colorado,  headquarters  at  Kansas  City,  Mo.  In  November,  1874, 
he  returned  to  Chicago  as  General  Superintendent,  Western  Department,  Ameri- 
can Express  Co. ;  and  removed  from  there  to  San  Francisco,  March,  1884,  to  take 
service  with  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.  fcr  the  second  time. 


29 


164.  Amador  Andrews,  Manager  Central  Depart- 
ment ;  Headquarters,  Kansas  City,  Mo. 

Mr.  Andrews  is  a  native  Californian,  born  in  Jackson,  Amador  County,  July 
3,  1854.  lie  was  brought  up,  as  it  were,  in  the  service  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos 
Express,  of  which  his  father  was  an  agent,  and  early  became  identified  with  it 
himself.  lie  hasseen  service  in  all  the  Statesand  Territories  westof  the.Mississippi, 
and  in  Mexico  and  Hawaii,  and  experienced  express  life  in  all  its  phases,  from  the 
privations  and  perils  of  the  frontier  messenger  to  the  more  ploa.sant  but  not  less 
arduous  duties  connected  with  the  management  of  one  of  the  three  great  Depart- 
ments into  which  the  territory  occupied  by  the  Company  is  divided.  The  Central 
Department  embraces  all  lines  east  of  the  Rocky  Mountains  to  the  Mississippi 
River,  and  east  of  El  Paso  to  New  Orleans. 

165.  Dudley  £vans,  Manager  Atlantic  Depart- 
ment ;  Headquarters,  New  York. 

Col.  Evans  is  a  Virginian,  born  in  1838,  and  acquired  his  military  title  by 
actual  service.  He  started  in  the  Company's  employ,  18C7,  at  \'ictoria,  Britisn 
Columbia,  succeeding  in  1872  to  the  agency  at  Portland,  Oregon,  where  he  exer- 
cised official  functions  outside  the  loc;il  limits.  In  1882  he  was  put  in  full  charge 
of  that  section  as  Superintendent  of  the  Northwestern  Division.  Upon  the  com- 
pletion of  the  Northern  Pacific  Railroad,  carrying  its  own  express,  W.  F.  &  Co. 
relinquished  the  field,  and  Col.  Evans  engaged  in  real  estate  businesis  at  Portland. 
The  express  service  continued,  however,  to  exercise  a  fastination  over  him,  and  in 
January,  1888,  he  accepted  the  position  of  Superintendent  of  the  Northeastern 
Division,  with  headquarters  at  Omaha,  Neb.  In  September  following  he  was 
made  General  Superintendent  of  the  Central  Department,  to  which  his  division 
belonged  ;  and  in  November,  1891,  be  was  transferred  to  New  York,  to  take  charge 
of  the  Atlantic  Department,  as  successor  to  W.  J.  Hancock,  deceased.  The 
Department  embraces  the  Company's  lines  from  Boston  and  New  York,  inclusive, 
on  the  east,  to  the  Mississippi  river  on  the  west.  He  is  also  second  Vice-President 
of  the  Company,  elected  to  that  office  August,  1892. 

166.  T-wo  Cut-off  Shotguns ;  W.  F.  &  Co's  peculiar 
pattern  of  defensive  weapons  which  western  highway- 
men have  learned  to  regard  with  the  respect  originating 
in  fear. 

The  samples  are  of  the  old  muzzle-loading  variety,  which  have  long  since 
been  replaced  with  breech-loaders,  of  the  same  reduced  length ;  made  so  to 
facilitate  concealment,  as  well  as  use. 

167.  "A  Keepsake  "—Columbian  Souvenir  Coin,  1892 
(face  and  reverse);  "Presented  to  the  Employes  of 
Wells,  Fargo  &  Co. ,  in  Token  of  Regard  and  in  appre- 
ciation of  faithful  services." 

Connected  with  the  above  are  the  effective  display  card  used  with  each  coin, 
the  language  of  which  we  have  quoted,  and  a  copy  of  the  official  circular  of  Presi- 
dent John  J.  Valentine,  further  explanatory  of  the  kind  and  patriotic  motives 
that  prompted  the  presentation,  involving  no  small  outlay  of  money. 

168.  Homer  S.  King,  Manager  of  W.  F.  &  Co's 
Bank. 

Mr.  King  entered  the  einploy  of  W.  F.  &  Co.,  1857,  at  the  age  of  sixteen,  as 
letter  clerk,  in  Sacramento  office,  and  was  promoted  subsequently  to  forwarding 


30 


clerk.  In  July,  1863,  he  was  transferred  to  Virginia  City,  Nevada,  as  Cashier  of 
the  Company's  Bank  there,  and  in  1867  was  called  to  the  same  position  in  San 
Francisco.  In  1869  was  agent  at  White  Pine,  Nevada,  a  flourishing  and  noted 
mining  district,  and  in  1872  at  Eureka,  Nevada,  another  of  the  prosperous  mining 
camps  of  the  <lay.  lie  returned  to  San  Francisco  in  1873,  having  been  elected 
Treasurer  of  the  Company,  and  served  in  that  capacity  until  1876,  when  he 
resigned  to  engage  in  business  for  himself.  From  this  he  retired  iu  May,  1892 ; 
and  in  August  of  the  same  year  was  elected  Manager  of  W.  F.  &  Go's  Banking 
Department,  in  connection  with  its  bank  located  in  San  Francisco,  a  position  he 
accepted  and  now  fills. 


169.  James  Heron,  Secretary  of  Wells,  Fargo  & 
Company. 

Mr.  Heron  was  born  December  2,  1827,  at  Richmond,  Va.,  and  at  the  age  of 
fourteen  entered  the  U.  S.  Navy,  as  midshipman;  resigning  at  twenty-one,  and 
spending  two  years  in  France.  Sailed  again  (this  time  in  the  merchant  service) 
and  followed  the  sea  until  April  4,1862,  when  he  engaged  with  Wells,  Fargo  <fe 
Co.,  as  a  coast-line  messenger.  Subsequently  he  passed  through  various  grades 
•f  the  service — department  clerk,  route  nwnt,  assistant  superintendent  and 
cashier.  In  1872  the  duties  of  Secretary  weie  joined  with  those  of  Cashier,  he 
continuing  in  the  dual  position  until  1882,  when  he  was  sent  to  Mexico,  where  he 
assisted  in  organizing  the  service  over  the  important  territory  acquired  iu  that 
Republic  by  the  completion  of  the  Mexican  Central  R.  R.  Two  years  were  occu- 
pied in  that  and  similar  work,  siuce  when  he  has  served  as  Secretary  of  the  Com- 
pany at  headquarters,  San  Francisco. 

170.  Henry  Wadsworth,  Treasurer  op  Wells, 
Fargo  &  Company. 

Mr.  H.  Wadsworth  came  to  California  in  the  spring  of  1858,  and  immediately 
engaged  in  business  at  Yreka  with  an  elder  brother,  Dr.  E.  Wadsworth  (who  had 
preceded  him),  and  with  AV.  F.  &  Co.  by  that  arrangement, — the  two,  as  a  firm, 
being  for  many  years  agents  of  the  Company  at  that  pioneer  settlement.  The 
Yreka  office  still  continues  in  the  family  of  the  elder  brother.  In  1873  Mr.  H. 
Wadsworth  accepted  the  first-class  agency — express  and  banking — at  Salt  Lake 
City,  Utah,  and  in  1876  was  transferred  to  San  Francisco,  as  Treasurer  of  Wells, 
Fargo  &  Co. ,  and  Cashier  of  the  Bank,  which  position  he  now  holds.  His  services 
extend  over  a  period  of  thirty-five  years. 

171.  W.  F.  &  Co's   Office  at  Sacramento, 

Cal.,  Corner  Sixth  and  K  Streets.  Exterior  view. 
Felix  Tracy,  Agent. 


172.    Interior  of  the  Sacramento  Office. 

The  building  is  comparatively  new,  having  recently  been  remodeled  and 
prepared  by  the  owners  to  suit  the  wants  of  the  Company.  The  fixtures  and 
inside  arrangements  are  altogether  new,  and  skillfully  planned,  not  only  for 
facilitating  office  work,  but  for  health  and  comfort. 


173.   The  Office  Force  at  Sacramento,  Cal. 

The  emploirfis  connected  with  the  office — clerks,  drivers,  etc. — are  grouped 
before  the  building  as  if  for  inspection,  Mr.  Tracy,  who  is  both  local  agent  and 
Assistant  Superintendent  of  the  Division,  distinguishable  among  them. 


31 


RECORD  OF  ROBBERIES 

Perpetrated  on  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.  from  Nov.,  1870, 
TO  Nov.,  1884. 


It  is  universally  admitted  that  no  express  company  in  the 
United  States  has  been  subjected  to  .so  frequent  attack  and  often 
heavy  loss  by  highwaymen  and  lawless  desperadoes  as  Wells, 
Fargo  &  Co.  The  promptness  with  which  all  claims  on  this 
account  have  been  met  and  settled  has  ever  inspired  and  con- 
firmed public  confidence  in  the  integrity  and  responsibility  of 
the  Company.  The  following  is  a  summary  of  the  detailed 
official  Report  by  Special  Officers,  J.  B.  Hume  and  J.  N. 
Thacker,  submitted  to  the  President  in  November,  1884.  It 
covers  a  period  of  fourteen  years : 


Total  loss  incidental  to  Robberies  .  .  $927,726.55 

Number  of  Stage  robberies  313 

Attempted  Stage  robberies  34 

Burglaries  23 

Train  robberies   4 

Attempted  Train  robberies   4 

Number  of  W.  F.  &  Co's  Guards  killed  .  .  2 
Number  of  W.  F.  &  Co's  Guards  wounded  .  6 

Number  of  Stage-drivers  killed   4 

Number  of  Stage-drivers  wounded   4 

Number  of  Stage-robbers  killed  16 

Number  of  Stage-robbers  hanged  by  citizens  7 

Number  of  Horses  killed   7 

Number  of  Horses  stolen  from  team  .    ...  14 


No  general  report  on  the  subject  has  since  been  made,  which 
has  not  been  due  to  dearth  of  material.  The  years  subsequent 
to  1884  have  been  as  rich  in  similar  events  as  those  preceding, 
and  the  history  of  them  would  be  quite  as  startling  and  im- 
pressive. 

82 


PRINCIPAL  OFFICES 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Express. 


U.  S.  OF  A. 


NEW  YORK,  63  Broadway. 


Akron,  Ohio. 
Austin,  Tex. 
Atchison,  Kas. 
Albuquerque,  N.  M, 
Boston,  Mass. 
Buffalo,  N.  Y. 
Chicago,  III. 
Cincinnati,  Ohio. 
Cleveland,  Ohio. 
Denver,  Colo. 
El  Paso,  Tex. 
Galveston,  Tex. 
Kansas  City,  Mo. 
Los  Angeles,  Cal. 
New  Orleans,  La. 


Portland,  Or. 
Pittsburgh,  Pa. 
Rochester,  N.  Y. 
Seattle,  Wash. 
Salt  Lake  City,  Utah. 
San  Diego,  Cal. 
San  Francisco,  Cal. 
St.  Louis,  Mo. 
St.  Joseph,  Mo. 
Santa  Fe,  N.  M. 
Tacoma,  Wash. 
ToPEKA,  Kas. 
Toledo,  Ohio. 
Tucson,  Arizona. 
Virginia,  Nev. 


Also  Victoria,  B.  C,  and 
CITY  OF  MEXICO. 


EXPRESS  TO  GREAT  BRITAIN  AND  EUROPE. 

Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Express  forwards  Small  Parcels 
Packages,  Valuables  and  Merchandise  by  all  of  the 
Fast  Steamships  from  New  York,  at  exceedingly  low 
rates,  and  with  no  more  formalities  thau  attend  domestic 
shipments  by  Express. 

EUROPEAN  AGENCIES. 
Antwerp,  Belg.  .  .  .  Von  der  Becke  &  Marsily. 
Bremen,  Ger.  ....  Heinrich  Becker. 
Christiania,  Nor  .  .  Jens  Meinich  &  Son. 
Copenhagen,  Den.  .  Thingvalla  S.  S.  Co. 
Florence,  Italy.  .  .  French  &  Co. 
Havre,  France  ...  38  Rue  de  Chilou. 
Hamburg,  Ger.  ...  39  Admiralitatstrasse. 

London,  Eng  99  Cannon  Street. 

Liverpool,  Eng.    .  .  20  Water  Street. 

Paris,  France    ...  19  Rue  Scribe. 

Rome,  Italy  Pruckmayer,  Zuccari  &  Co. 

  ALSO  

Panama,  U.  S.  of  C.  .  Henry  Ehrman. 


For  rates  and  other  information  please  apply  at  any 
Agency  of  the  Company. 


OFFICE  OF 


Wells.  Fargo  &  Company's 

Bureau  of  Information 

AND  1 56  Dearborn  Street 

CHICAGO. 


Inquiry  may  be  made  there  concerning  matters  of 
interest  and  importance  to  visitors  during  the  Fair,  relat- 
ing to  the  Exposition,  the  city,  living-arrangements, 
railroads,  etc.,  and  information  acquired  free  of  cost. 


A  CORDIAL  INVITATION  TO  CALL 
IS  HEREBY  EXTENDED  


California  State  Lltrarj 


