OVERIAND  EXPRESS 


v  


I   } 

20067    7-22    5M  -^-^^ 


I 


mSTEUCTlONS 

TO 

AGENTS  AND  EMPLOYES 

OK 

Mlclls,  Jfiirgo  &  €a.'s 
OVEELAND  EXPRESS. 

WITH 

TARIFF  OF  RATES,  ETC. 

NOTICE. 

This  Hunk  of  In^triictioiis  is  designed  for  the  use  of  iiyents  aiid  employes  of  the  Ovci- 
l;iiid  K\[in -^s  i>n]y,  and  must  not  tie  left  accessible  to  the  public. 

It  1 1  i  Mdsi  it  iitt'  ;i  pai't  of  th(?  records  of  an  oflice,  and  must  be  transferred  by  retiring' 
H^'cril-  anil  <<[  Ihts  to  their  successors. 

The  Cinii]>;iiiy  reserves  the  right  to  amend  or  alter  tiiese  rules  and  rates  at  pleasure. 


J.  O.  SEYMOUK  &  CO.,  PRINTERS,  9  AND  11  NASSAU  STREKT. 
186S. 


69273 


xprcss. 


<>  F  JTI  C  E  K.  H  . 

President. 
LOUIS  McLANE. 

"Vice-President. 
A.    H.  BARNEY. 

Secretary. 

GEORUE  K.  OTIS. 

Treasurer. 
CALVIN  GODDARD. 

General  Superintendent  Stage  Department. 
JAMES  .1.  TRACY,  Now- York. 

Manager  Overland  Express. 
THEO.  P.  TRACY,  Salt  Lake  City. 

Traveling  Agent,  Eastern  Division. 
VV.  A.  GILLESPIE,  Cheyenne,  Dakota. 

.  Traveling  Agent,  Salt  Lake  Division. 
.10.  S.  ROBERSON,  Salt  Lake  City. 

Cashier  Overland  Express. 
AARON  STEIN,  Salt  Lake  City. 


I 

I 
( 


CIROULAE. 


To  Agents  and  Emploijes  of  the  Overland  Express  : 

Gentlemen  :  The  followng  Book  of  Instructions  is  carefully  com- 
piled from  the  matured  experience,  written  or  heretofore  unwritten, 
of  those  engaged  for  years  in  this  particular  business,  and,  it  is 
believed,  embraces  nearly  every  point  upon  which  a  vital  question 
of  practice  could  arise  in  the  routine  of  an  office.  It  is,  more- 
over, so  classified  and  arranged  that  any  particular  Bvibject  may 
readily  be  referred  to  and  all  necessary  light  obtained  thereon. 

As  such  it  is  commended  to  your  earnest  perusal  and  study 
with  the  assurance  that  its  rules  are  binding,  and  that  you  will 
be  held  personally  responsible  for  mistakes  originating  from  a 
neglect  of  consulting  and  obeying  them. 

*  Very  truly,  yours, 

LOUIS  McLANE,  President. 

New-Yokk,  Jan.  1,  18G8. 


OOI^TEKTS. 


PACK 

GENERAL  REMARKS,   9 

Scope  and  Management,   9 

Causes  of  Loss  and  Dissatisfaction,   10 

GENERAL  INSTRUCTIONS,   It 

Personal  Conduct,   11 

Care  of  Offices  and  Property,   12 

Receiving  and  Delivering  Goods,   13 

Checking  Way-Bills,   13 

Receipts  for  Delivery,   13 

Notifying  Stiort  Packages,   14 

Claims  for  Damages,   15 

Offing  Charges,   15 

Marking  and  Packing,   15 

Marking  Freight,   15 

Money  Packages,   16 

Bullion  and  Treasure,   IG 

Value  of  Contents,   17 

Tags  and  Labels,   17 

Receiving  Goods  to  be  Forwarded,   18 

Receipts,   13 

Charges,   19 

Fragile,  Worthless,  and  Perishable  Goods,   20 

Sale  of  Perishable  Goods  if  Refused,   20 

California  and  Oregon  Express,   21 

"Way-Bills,  with  Form^   21 

Numbering,  etc.,   21 

Memorandum  Way-Bills,  icHh  Form,   22 

Memorandum  Way-Bills  to  Non-Billing  Offices,       ....  25 

Custody  and  Handling  of  Freight,   25 

Services  of  Stage  Drivers,   2S 

Delivering  Goods  with  Wagons,   28 

Collection  and  Commission  Department   29 

Nature  of  Collections,   29 

Treatment  of  Collections,   30 

Collections  ordered  Protested,   31 

Acceptance  and  Protests,   32 

C.  0.  D.  Collections,   33 

Transferring  to  Connecting  Expresses,   34 

Commissions,   ....    85 


8 


CONTENTS. 


PAQI 


Letter  Department,   85 

"  Old  Horse,'*  or  Packages  on  Hand,   86 

Settling  with  General  Office,   86 

General  Remarks,   36 

The  Abstract,  with  Form,   87 

The  StaUment,  xeith  Form   8" 

Free  Privileges,   48 

Telegraphing,   48 

Franking  Packages   43 

Correspondence,   44 

Blanks,   44 

Non-Billing  Agents,  Instructions  to,   45 

Messengers,  Instructions  to   41 

Traveling  Agents,  Instructions  to,   50 

Tariff,   62 

Rates  East  of  Omaha   hi 

Rates  by  the  Overland  Express   S9 

Rates  by  Calirornia  and  Oregon  Express,   TO 

European  TtrilT,      .       .       -   "2 

Weekly  Freight  Reports,  with  Form   74 

Tables  of  Distances,       .    77 


GENERAL  REMARKS. 


TnE  Overland  Express  embraces  the  territory  com-  ^'"'p®^"'^^''"""''^ 
mencing  at  Omaha,  Nebraska,  along  the  route  of  tlie 
Union  Pacific  Railroad,  and  by  stage  through  Colo- 
rado, Utah,  Montana,  and  to  Boise  City  in  Idalio.  At 
Omaha,  connecting  with  the  United  States  and  Ameri- 
can Express  Companies  for  all  points  east  in  the 
United  States  and  Canadas,  and  with  reliable  Express 
Companies  throughout  Europe  and  all  parts  of  the 
world.  At  Salt  Lake  City,  connecting  with  Wells, 
Fargo  &  Co.'s  California  and  Oregon  Express  for  all 
points  in  the  Pacific  States  and  Territories,  and  also 
with  "Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.'s  Ocean  Expresses  at  San 
Francisco  for  China,  Japan,  Sandwich  Islands,  Van- 
couver's Island,  and  all  points  on  the  Pacific  coast. 

The  business  of  the  Overland  Express  has  been  Management, 
placed  under  the  direct  supervision  of  TnEODORE  F. 
Tkacy,  Esq.,  as  Manager,  with  headquarters  at  Salt 
Lake  City,  to  whom  all  questions  of  detail  are  to  be 
referred. 

The  Overland  Express  has  been  organized  for  the  Object, 
purpose  of  forwarding,  by  rapid  modes  of  convey- 
ance, merchandise,  freight,  parcels,  valuable  packages, 
jewelry,  bank-notes,  gold,  silver,  valuable  papers, 
bonds,  etc.,  and  delivering  the  same  at  the  place  of 
business  or  residence  of  the  consignee ;  making  col- 
lections, with  or  without  goods,  the  filling  of  orders, 
and  attending  to  commissions  generally. 


10      WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


CAUSES  OF  LOSS  AND  DISSATISFACTIOS. 

Causes  of  loss     The  business  is  eminently  one  of  detail  rcnuirin" 

and    dlssatlsfac-     ,    ,,  ,  .  110 

tion.  Of  all  persons  engaged  in  it,  system,  accuracy,  punctu- 

alitj-,  watchfulness,  urbanity,  and,  above  all,  that  the 
lusiness  of  to-day  be  done  be/ore  to-morrotc.  Among 
the  prolific  sources  of  loss  to  the  Company  are : 

By  goods  being  improperly  marked. 

By  being  improperly  packed  for  safe  carriage. 

By  carelessness  in  handling. 

By  receiving  goods  of  little  or  no  value,  and  for- 
warding without  prepayment,  and  by  advancing 
charges  on  them. 

By  carelessness  in  giving  receipts. 

By  neglecting  to  notify  back  when  goods  are  short. 

By  neglecting  to  carefully  check. 

By  want  of  uniformity  in  charges,  causing  dissatis- 
faction to  the  customer. 

By  want  of  courtesy  and  attention  to  the  interests 
of  customers  ;  thereby  injuring  the  popularity  of 
the  Company. 

By  carelessness  in  the  safe  keeping  of  money  and 
other  valuable  packages. 

By  neglecting  to  adjust  promptly  all  claims  for  loss 
or  damage. 

By  neglecting  to  properly  way-bill  money  packages. 
Bj'  loss  or  misplacement  of  safe,  trunk,  or  treasure- 
box  keys. 

By  suffering  C.  0.  D.  goods  to  be  delivered  before 

payment  of  bill. 
By  neglecting  to  take  receipts  for  goods  delivered. 
By  neglecting  to  keep  watch  of  money  and  valuable 

packages,  when  in  wagons  or  coaches. 
To  obviate  these  evils,  and  to  insure  uniformity  in 
each  department  throughout  the  entire  business,  a 
strict  observance  of  the  following  rules  is  enjoined 
upon  all  the  employes  of  the  Company. 


jaENERAL    JnSTI^  UCTIONS. 


Note, — In  the  compilation  of  these  instructions,  it  is  proper  to 
•  state,  the  utmost  freedom  has  been  exercised  in  drawing  from  books  of 
this  kind  already  published,  and  particularly  from  that  of  The  Ambri* 
CAN  Express  Companv,  which  has  been  found  very  complete  and  ap- 
plicable to  the  system  adopted  for  the  Overland  Express. 


PERSONAL  CONDUCT. 

1.  All  persons  connected  with  the  business  of  the  Civility  to  custo- 
Company  are  expected  to  deport  themselves  with  uni- 
form civility  and  affabilitj',  and  to  answer  all  questions 

of  business  addressed  to  them,  in  a  clear,  and,  as  far  as 
possible,  satisfactory  manner. 

2.  Clerks,  drivers,  and  messengers  will  be  subject  Authority  oyer 

1  .  1  •     .       .•        /-  .1  ,     .     1      clerks  and  mes- 

to  the  direction  and  instruction  of  the  agent  at  the  sengers. 
oflBce  where  employed,  or  where  their  duties  may  re- 
quire them  temporarily  to  remain. 

3.  For  the  more  direct  communication  with,  and  Authority  of  tra- 
complete  supervision  of,  the  various  offices  under  his  over  offices^^''"''' 
control,  the  Manager  will  appoint  and  employ  assist- 
ants, to  be  known  as  traveling  agents,  who  will,  from 

time  to  time,  visit  the  offices,  and  whose  orders  and 
instructions,  in  all  matters  pertaining  to  the  business 
of  the  same,  are  to  be  carefully  observed. 

4.  When  good  cause  is  given,  agents  will  suspend  Agents  may  sus- 

...  •       e  pend  employes 

from  duty  messengers  running  from,  or  any  person  for  misconduct.  ^ 
employed  in,  their  office,  and  consult  the  traveling 
agent  as  to  further  action. 

5.  Any  gross  misconduct  on  the  part  of  messen-  Misconduct  to  be 
ger."!,  such  as  drinking  intoxicating  liquors  while  on  veu'ng^age'it.''^'' 


12      WELLS,  FAHGO  &  CO.'s  OVEKLAXD  EXPHES& 


duty,  carrying  money  packages  past  way-stations, 
leaving  their  safes  unguarded,  etc.,  must  be  reported 
to  the  traveling  agent ;  and  any  employe  who  may 
be  cognizant  of  default  in  duty  by  another  employe 
and  fails  to  report  the  same  to  the  traveling  agent  of 
his  division,  becomes  equally  censurable  with  the  de- 
faulter. 

Empiojis     re-  L      AVhen  the  Company  meets  with  a  loss  throush 

sponsible  for  da-  ^ 

mages.  the  carelessness,  inattention,  or  want  of  prudence  of 

agents  or  messengers,  they  will  be  held  personally  re- 
sponsible for  such  loss,  or  such  proportion  thereof,  as  • 
the  traveling  agent  may  determine. 

Leave  of  absence.  7.  Agents  exclusively  engaged  to  attend  to  the 
Company's  business,  will  not  absent  themselves  from 
the  same  without  permission  from  the  proper  authori- 
ty. No  office  should  be  left  a  moment  unless  in 
charge  of  a  regular  watch,  or  some  responsible  person 
in  the  employ  of  the  Company. 

KoTE,— Xo  agent  U  authorized  to  receive  deposits,  draw  drafts,  make 
notes,  or  any  other  money  obligation,  unless  authorized  by  the  Mana- 
ger. 

CARE  OP  OFFICES  AND  PROPERTY. 

All  business  8.  The  business  of  the  Companj-,  and  the  transactions 
strictly  conaden-  customers  through  its  offices,  must  be  strictly 

confidential,  and  books,  bills,  etc.,  are  not  open  for 
public  inspection. 
Intrusion  prohl-  ^-  person  shall  bo  allowed  behind  the  counters 
except  the  employes  of  the  Company  having  business 
there  ;  and  when  receiving  or  forwarding  treasure,  no 
person  shall  be  permitted  within  reach  of  it,  unless 
his  duties  or  responsibilities  arc  connected  with  the 
same. 

Secrecy  to  be  ob-  10.  Information  concerning  the  amount  of  money 
received  or  forwarded,  or  in  relation  to  any  matter  of 
business  intrusted  to  the  Company,  must  not  be  given 
to  any  one.  Secrecy  is  the  main  guard  and  protection 
of  all  express  business. 
Keys,  treasure-  11.  Safes,  treasure-boxes,  and  keys,  in  offices  or 
keprsccure.'"     otherwise  used,  must  at  all  times  be  kept  where  they 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  13 


arc  inaccessible  to  persons  not  employed  by  the  Com- 
pany, and  whose  business  does  not  pertain  to  them. 

12.  Agents,  on  routes  where  no  messengers  arc 
employed,  must  take  the  treasure-box  to  a  pricate  and 
safe  2)1(106,  and  there  check  its  contents,  being  particu- 
lar that  no  one  else  may  acquaint  himself  with  the 
contents  of  the  box  or  way-bills. 

13.  The  lock  of  a  safe,  or  treasure-box,  must  always 
be  tried  after  the  key  is  taken  out,  to  be  certain  that 
it  is  locked,  and  the  key  must  be  kept  in  a  secure 
place. 

14.  Losing  a  key  or  sending  off  a  treasure-box 
without  being  locked,  will  be  considered  gross  neglect 
of  duty,  and  be  held  as  sufficient  cause  for  dismissal, 
and  being  disqualified  from  ever  after  returning  to  the 
service. 


Openlnff  trcn- 
5ure-box  en 
route. 


Precaution  to  in- 
sure   its  being 


locl£ed. 


Penalty  for  loss 
of  liey  or  sending 
box  unlocked. 


RECEIVING  AND  DELIVERING  GOODS. 


CHECKING  WAY-BILLS. 


Noting  on  way- 
bills when  goods 
fail  to  arrive. 


15.  Upon  the  arrival  of  the  express  at  an  office,  and 
the  receipt  of  goods  and  way-bills,  the  agent,  or  his 
assistant,  will,  at  once,  ascertain,  by  careful  compari- 
son, if  the  goods  called  for  on  way-bill  have  been  re- 
ceived, and  for  each  article  thus  received  he  will  place 
his  initial  as  a  check-mark  to  the  entry  on  way-bill 
corresponding  therewith,  and  if  any  thing  is  short, 
note  the  fact  in  writing  opposite  such  entry.  The 
several  entries  on  the  way-bill  must  then  be  transfer- 
red to  the  delivery-book,  and  proper  efforts  made  for  Delivery-book, 
the  prompt  delivery  of  goods  to  parties  addressed. 


RECEIPTS. 

16.  Agents  will  take  receipts  in  "delivery  receipt- 
book,"  for  all  good.s,  etc.,  delivered,  and  will,  in  all 
cases,  require  freight  and  charges  to  be  paid  on  deli- 
very, except  in  cases  of  season  contracts,  (S.  C.) 

17.  When  the  consignee  of  a  valuable  package  is 
unknown,  he  must  he  identified  by  some  responsible 


Charges  must  be 
paid  on  or  before 
delivery. 


Identification  of 
consignees. 


14      WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


Signature  for 
IdeDti&cation. 


Orders  for  dell- 
very  to  be. pre- 
served. 


Agents  responsi- 
ble for  proper  de- 
livery. 


Goods  addressed 
to  "  care  of." 


Transferring  to 
"Tickler,"  and 
notifying  con- 
signees. 


person,  (the  presentation  of  the  Company's  receipt  is 
not  suflBcient,)  and  the  person  identifying  must  sign 
with  party  receiving,  upon  the  receipt-book ;  and  all 
receipts  must  be  taken  under  the  date  on  which  the 
package  is  delivered. 

18.  When  packages  are  delivered  upon  written  order 
of  party  to  whom  they  are  addressed,  the  order  must 
be  preserved  by  pasting  the  same  in  back  of  re- 
ceipt-book upon  which  the  article  is  receipted. 

19.  Agents  will  be  held  personally  responsible  for 
the  freight  and  charges  on  goods  delivered  at  their  re- 
spective oflRces,  or  the  wrong  delivery  of,  any  package. 

20.  Goods  or  articles  addressed  to  the  "  care  of"  an 
individual  or  company,  mud  he  delivered  to  that  indi- 
vidual or  compani/,  and  not  to  the  person  to  whom 
addressed. 

21.  All  goods  not  called  for  within  twenty-four 
hours  after  being  received,  should  be  transferred  to 
the  "  Tickler"  or  "  package-on-hand"  book  furnished 
for  that  purpose,  and  consignee  notified  through  the 
post-office,  with  the  usual  blanks.  Every  exertion 
should  be  made  to  deliver  packages,  and  not  allow 
them  to  accumulate. 


Prompt  measures 
to  trace  tliem. 


Short  money 
])ackages  to  be 
notified  by  tele- 
graph. 

Records  of  way- 
bills passing,  for 
reference. 


NOTIFYIKG  SHORT  PACKAGES. 

22.  In  every  instance  of  goods  failing  to  arrive  with 
the  way-bills  referring  to  same,  immediate  and  ener- 
getic steps  must  be  taken  to  trace  and  find  them.  The 
agent  will  write  the  ofBce  from  which  the  missing  ar- 
ticle started,  also  the  last  intermediate  checking-office, 
and  notify  messenger,  if  there  is  one. 

2.3.  When  money  packages  are  short  or  missing, 
he  will  telegraph  and  write  immediately,  same  as 
above. 

24.  Agents  must  keep  such  records  of  goods  and 
way-bills  passing  through  their  offices  as  will  enable 
them  to  be  traced.  Officers  must  be  prepared,  in  way 
above  indicated,  to  give  the  time  the  delayed  goods 
passed  through  their  hands. 


WELLS,  FAEGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAJSTD  EXPRESS.  15 


25.  Every  agent  failing  to  notify,  at  once,  when 
goods  are  short,  will  be  held  as  having  received  them. 


CLAIMS  FOR  DAMAGES. 

20.  When  damaa-cs  are  claimed,  the  agent  should  Personal  exami- 
°  .  nation  by  agents, 

personally  examine  into  the  claim,  and  not  refer  it  to 

employes. 

27.  When  claim  for  damages  exceeds  $10,  it  must  Reference  to  tra- 
be  referred  to  the  traveling  agent,  and  instructions      '"^  "^f^"'- 
asked. 

28.  If  suits  are  brought  against  the  Company,  the  Suits  for  da- 
traveling  agent  and  the  Manager  at  Salt  Lake  City 

must  be  immediately  notified. 


"OFFING"  CHARGES. 

29.  When  a  package  is  received,  the  charges  on 
which,  by  reason  of  being  in  excess  of  schedule  rate, 
or  for  other  good  and  sufficient  reason,  are  calculated 
to  give  serious  dissatisfaction  to  consignee,  agents  may 
"  off"  in  remarks  column  such  amount  as  may  be 
deemed  necessary,  provided  such  amount  does  not  af- 
fect the  column  of  "advanced  charges;''  and  under 
no  circumstances  shall  charges  reported  as  "advanced" 
be  deducted  either  in  whole  or  in  part. 

30.  In  judging  whether  an  actual  overcharge  has 
been  made,  when  such  is  alleged  to  be  the  case,  agents 
will  consult  the  Company's  own  figures,  and  not  be 
influenced  by  the  amount  paid  to  connecting  lines  and 
appearing  as  "advanced  charges." 


Limitation  of  this 
privilege. 


Advanced  cliar- 
ges  can  not  be 
"  oiled." 


How  a  question 
of  overcharge 
must  be  deter- 
mined. 


MARKING  AND  PACKING. 

MARKING  FREIGHT. 

31.  As  the  cause  of  many  errors  and  complaints  is 
found  in  defective  marking  and  packing,  agents  and 
others  employed  in  receiving  and  forwarding  goods, 
will  make  these  points  a  matter  of  very  serious  atten- 
tion. 


16      WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVKRLAND  EXPRESS. 


Address  to  bo 
conspicuous. 


Office  label. 


32.  The  address  on  articles  of  freight  and  boxes 
must,  in  all  cases,  be  plainly  and  conspicuously 
marked  thereon,  and  whenever  possible,  with  mark- 
ing paint. 

33.  The  printed  label  of  the  Company,  giving  the 
name  of  the  office  at  which  such  article  is  received 
and  billed,  must  also  be  attached  on  the  same  side 
with  the  address. 


Sender  to  count 
contents,  sen!, 
and  address 
package. 

Precaution  in  re- 
ceipting. 


Manner  of  seal- 
ing the  envelope. 


MONEY  PACKAGES. 

34.  Parties  sending  money  must  alwa}-s  count  the 
same,  and,  if  able,  seal  and  address  their  own  pack- 
ages. 

35.  The  exact  amount  of  money  contained  in  packa- 
ges mu.st  be  plainly  marked  on  them,  and  no  money 
package  be  receipted  for  until  after  it  is  sealed. 

3G.  Every  money  package  put  up  in  an  envelope 
must  have  five  seals  upon  it,  as  follows  :  one  on  the 
centre,  and  one  on  each  scam  of  the  envelope,  half- 
way from  the  centre  to  the  corner,  as  shown  in  the 
diagram  below. 


Sealing  large  37.  No  package  of  money  in  an  envelope  must  be 
allowed  to  leave  an  office  without  being  thus  sealed. 
Large  packages  of  money,  otherwise  put  up,  must  be 
so  securely  .sealed  that  they  can  by  no  pcssibility  be 
tampered  with  without  detection. 
Penalty  for  ne-  38.  If  any  error  or  short  count  occurs  in  packages 
particulars.'''"*  not  sealed  in  accordance  with  these  instructions,  the 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS,  17 


amount  will  be  charged  back  to  the  agent  or  office 
forwarding  the  same. 

39.  Gold-dust  should  be  put  up  in  strong  and  well-  racking  of  goia- 
sewed  buckskin  bags,  tied,  and  well  scaled.   Tin  cans 

must  not  be  used,  as  the  least  jar  breaks  the  solder 
on  the  seams,  and  it  sifts  out. 

40.  Shippers  should  avoid,  as  much  as  possible,  the  Packing  bars  or 
practice  of  putting  more  than  one  gold  bar  in  a  pack- 
age.   They  are  liable  to  break  the  packing  and  obli- 
terate the  mark.    When  bars  or  coin  are  put  up  in 

boxes,  the  lid  should  be  screwed  on,  and  the  screw- 
heads  sealed  with  wax. 

VALUE  OP  CONTENTS. 

41.  It  being  reasonably  considered  that  the  appear-  Precaution  in 

,  1         ■       1  •         J  •         marking  value 

ance  upon  any  box  or  package  m  plam  and  conspicu-  on  bo.xes. 
ous  characters,  of  the  value  of  contents — (which  value 
the  agent  is  in  every  case  required  to  ascertain  and 
report  on  his  way-bill)—  offers  a  dangerous  induce- 
ment and  advantage  for  fraudulent  detention  or  appro- 
priation, agents  will  hereafter  protect  the  Company 
against  this  risk,  by  omitting  to  give  the  value  of  con- 
tents on  the  bo.x",  and  simply  marking  thereon  the 
number  of  the  way-bill  on  which  the  box  is  recorded, 
and  to  which  reference  may  be  had  for  full  particu- 
lars. 

42.  In  rebilling  such  box,  the  original  number  Rebiiiing  hox 

Ill  ^  li-iijA     thus  marked  and 

must  be  canceled,  and  a  new  number  substituted,  to  billed, 
correspond  with  the  way-bill  on  which  the  entry  last 
appears.  This  rule  does  not  apply  to  treasure  pack- 
ages and  light  packages  of  value,  the  position  of  which 
in  the  safe,  treasure-box,  or  under  the  constant  obser- 
vation of  the  person  in  charge,  renders  them  compara- 
tively secure. 

TAGS  AND  LABELS. 

43.  In  all  cases  where  it  is  found  that  the  address  Durable  tags  to 
on  packages,  etc.,  is  liable  to  be  obliterated  or  chafed  frau'ones."''^'' 
off  in  the  course  of  a  long  journey,  agents  must  at- 


18      WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


tach  to  such  package  the  stout  address-tag  furnished 
for  that  purpose,  and  plainly  write  the  address  there- 
on. 

Office  labels,  im-     44.  Second  only  to  the  imperfect  and  careless  mark- 

portance       ana  ,        -     ,  , 

manner  of  their  ing  Of  address  upon  a  box  or  package  as  a  source  of 
error  and  confusion,  is  the  neglect  of  putting  the 
usual  office  label  thereon.  Agents  are  specially  di- 
rected to  guard  against  this  neglect.  In  all  cases,  the 
label  must  show  the  name  of  the  office  from  which  it 
is  sent,  (if  not  printed,  it  must  be  written,)  and  the 
label  must  be  put  on  the  same  side  of  the  box  or 
package,  or  way-billed  letter,  with  the  address,  so  that 
it  will  be  impossible  to  overlook  it. 

Improper  use.  43.  The  inconsiderate  practice  of  attaching  the 
label  to  the  back  of  a  letter  or  other  package,  or  other- 
wise out  of  immediate  observation,  is  seriously  repre- 
hended. 

4G.  This  rule  applies  to  all  matter  upon  which  the 
name  of  billing  office  does  not  otherwise  appear. 
C.  0.  D.  labels.  47.  In  C.  0.  D.  packages,  etc.,  care  must  be  taken 
to  attach  the  "  C.  O.  D."  label,  as  the  neglect  of  so 
doing  may  occasion  error  in  the  treatment  of  such 
packages,  etc.,  for  which  the  agent  causing  the  error 
will  be  held  personally  liable. 
Supply  to  be  pre-  48.  Agents  who  arc  not  furnished  with  labels  hav- 
ing the  office  name  printed  thereon,  will  consult  their 
own  convenience  and  expedite  business  by  making 
and  keeping  a  written  supply  on  hand. 

RECEIVING  GOODS  TO  BE  FORWARDED. 

RECEIPTS. 

49.  A  receipt  must  be  given  to  the  sender  for  every 
package  to  be  forwarded,  valuable  or  otherwise,  and 
all  valuable  packages  locked  in  the  safe  until  checked 
out  and  sent  forward. 

50.  Money  and  other  packages  must  not  be  received 
for  places  on  our  routes  where  we  have  no  office  or  no 


Receipts  to  be 
given. 


Receipts  tor 
packages  to  way- 
stations,  and  be- 
yond routes. 


WELLS,  FAKGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAJ!JD  E5PEESS. 


19 


certain  arrangements  for  their  delivery.  If  the  place  is 
off  our  routes,  the  receipt  given  must  specify  "  to  be 
delivered  to  connecting  express." 

MAKING  CHARGES. 

51.  A  price  should  be  put  on  every  package  billed,  A  price  to  be  put 

'      _  r        D  >      ^^^^  article, 

unless  it  is  a  "free,"  "  P.  0.  R."  or  "  S.  C."  package; 

if  wrong,  the  office  receiving  can  add  to,  or  deduct  from 
the  charge,  by  using  the  column  provided  in  the  way- 
bill and  statement  for  that  purpose  ;  but  a  price  is 
never  to  be  made  for  forwarding  an  article  without  the  Price  to  he  based 
agent  seeing  and  knowing  something  of  its  weight,  package!'^''^'^  ° 
bulk,  contents,  and  value. 

52.  A  general  tariff  is  furnished  to  each  office,  and  TarifT  to  be  foi- 

'  lowed. 

must  not  be  varied  from  except  by  consent  of  the 
Manager.    (See  "  Cala.  and  Oregon  Express,"  page  21.) 

53.  AVhen  entirely  in  doubt  about  the  charge  to  be  cases  of  extreme 
made  on  packages,  or  when  contract  is  for  office  at  des-  ^haige. 
tination  to  fix  the  price,  the  agent  may  enter  it  M.  P., 

(make  price,)  and  the  agent  receiving  will  then  fix  the 
charge,  and  add  to  the  bill  in  column  of  remarks,  which 
will  be  taken  upon  statement  sheet  in  "add"  col- 
umn. 

54.  In  no  case  is  one  agent  to  alter  charges  made  by  Ciianges  from 
another  agent,  except  in  this  way,  as  the  original  foot-  be'^made'^"in^re- 
ing  of  a  bill  must  never  be  altered,  by  the  change  of  a  """^''^  column, 
figure  or  the  introduction  of  any  new  figures  into  the 

charges  columns.    (See  "  Cala.  and  Oregon  Express," 
page  21.) 

55.  Shippers  are  required  to  put  a  value  on  every 
article,  and  agents  to  so  book  it,  and  enter  it  in  receipt 
and  on  way-bill.  This  valuation  must  influence,  in  a 
measure,  the  charges  made. 

56.  Agents  must  exercise  great  care  in  making  Special  con- 
special  agreements  and  always  consult  authority.  All 

contracts,  made  by  one  agent,  are  to  be  faithfully  ful- 
filled by  any  other  agent,  whenever  a  receipt,  with  an 
agreement  on  it,  or  other  good  evidence,  is  shown. 
When  contracts  are  not  in  accordance  with  the  tarifl". 


20      WELLS,  FAP.GO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


the  receipt  should  be  taken  from  the  holder  and  sent 
to  the  Manager. 

Forwarding  s.  C.  57.  E.xpress  matter  forwarded  under  monthly  or 
goods. 

season  contracts,  bears  no  charge  on  way-bill.  "S.  C." 
must  be  put  in  column  of  remarks. 

FRAGILE,    WORTHLESS,  AND  PERISHABLE 
GOODS. 

ui^''va"ie"to"iS      58.  Goods  evidently  not  worth  the  transportation, 

prepaid  or  guar-  or  that  would  not,  under  ordinary  circumstances,  sell 
anteed.  '  •'  ' 

for  the  charges,  imist  not  he  received  unless  the  charges 

are  prepaid  or  guaranteed.    When  freight  is  prepaid, 

the  person  receiving  the  money  will  mark  the  package 

"  paid,"  with  his  name  or  initials. 

tog'charges.'""^  Especial  care   must  be  taken,  in  advancing 

charges  on  goods,  to  know  that  they  are  worth  charges 

and  freight. 

ti^n's"*  to  ""be  packages  containing  poultry,  fish,  fruit,  or 

shown,  and  goods  perishable  articles  of  any  description,  or  articles  con- 
taken   at    ship-       .      ,    .       ,  I      ,  ,  ,  ,    -  1.    .  , 

pcr's  risk  only,  tamed  in  glass,  should  have  their  nature  distinctly 
marked  upon  them,  as  also  the  full  address  of  the  con- 
signee, including  street  and  number,  and  inu»t  only  he 
reeeited  at  owner's  ruik,  and  charges  mtut  he  prepaid  to 
destination. 

Gl.  These  conditions  must  be  specified  in  the  re- 
ceipt, and  in  order  to  have  such  contract  for  reference, 
in  case  of  loss  or  damage,  agents  will  give  a  receipt. 
Duplicate     re-  and  require  a  dup! irate,  with  agreement  and  signature 

celpts  with  writ-  ^  ^  '  °  .  °  . 

tin  acquiescence  of  shipper  across  face  of  same,  assuming  and  agreeing 
to  considerations  given  therein.    A  five  cent  revenue 

Eev.  stamp.  stamp  must  be  attached  to  such  contract,  to  make  it 
legally  binding. 

SALE  OF  PERISHABLE  GOODS,  IF  REFUSED. 

Judicious  per-  62.  When  perishable  goods  are  refused  by  consignee, 
suited.  or  not  called  for,  (unless  other  instructions  accompany 

them,)  they  should  at  once  be  disposed  of  to  the  best 
advantage,  after  having  consulted  some  judicious  per- 


WELLS,  FAKGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPBESS,  21 


son  in  the  trade,  as  to  the  manner  and  propriety  of  so  f„'^™"/ndered?'' 
doing,  and  an  account  of  sales,  with  net  proceeds,  re- 
turned to  the  shipper,  addressed  to  the  office  from 
which  the  goods  came.  If  the  shipper  is  not  known, 
the  account  of  sales  may  be  sent  to  the  agent  where 
shipped  from,  and  he  will  ascertain  who  is  entitled  to 
the  proceeds. 

THE  CALIFORNIA  AND  OREGON  EXPRESS. 

03.  The  circulating  medium  of  the  Pacific  States  Coin  basis, 
being  gold  and  silver,  charges  on  packages,  etc.,  des- 
tined for  points  west  of  Salt  Lake  City,  must  in  all 
cases,  be  made  in  coin.  Agents  may  receive,  in  pre- 
payment of  such  charges,  the  equivalent  of  coin  in 
currency ;  but  wherever  practicable,  it  should  immedi- 
ately be  converted,  and  entered  as  coin  on  the  way- 
bill. 

64.  Currency  packages  for  such  points  should  have  Coin  value  of  cur- 
marked  thereon,  in  addition  to  the  exact  currency 
amount,  the  coin  value  thereof,  and  it  should  be  so 
entered  on  way-bill,  with  coin  charges  on  the  coin 
value,  at  the  usual  tarilF  rate. 

Go.  Agents  will  bill  to  Salt  Lake  City  all  matter  where  to  bill  and 
for  points  west  of  there,  and  when  charges  are  to  col- 
lect,  the  amount  given  should  be  the  proper  rate  to 
Salt  Lake  City,  and  not  to  destination. 

CO.  Prepayment  of  charges  to  destination  may  be  Prepaid  cliarges. 
received,  but  in  all  cases  of  prepayment,  agents  must 
note  in  "remarks"  column,  "paid  to  S.  L.  C,"  or 
"paid  through,"  as  the  case  may  be. 

WAY-BILLS— NUMBERING,  ETC. 

07.  Particular  care  is  to  be  taken  that  no  express  Way-bills  must 
is  forwarded  without  the  proper  way-bills  accompany-  goods?  ^  *  "  ^ 
ing  it. 

08.  All  bills  made  and  forwarded  in  any  one  day,  at  All  way-bills  of 

«  ,11}  \         j.\       r         same  date  to  bear 

the  same  ofBce,  must  bear  the  same  number  ;  therefore,  same  number. 


CO 
(0 

Id 
K 
Q. 

X 
III 


Ul 
> 
O 

(0 

6 
o 

o 

o 

< 

b. 


U  1^ 


Ol 


ss 


;  ;  :  :  X  c' &^  ;  >»    •  • 

:  1  :  :u-nO  50  i 

•■2  :^  «  c  »  .  «  .=  o-g 

.c-^*=-^  '        *  Si  o 


■  c  fc.  3  53  - 

OcS^^O'ci  Sob's  o  50   .  t  , 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  23 


bills  sent  by  any  one  office  to  another  office,  will  not 
bear  consecutive  numbers,  unless  it  happen  that  a  bill 
is  sent  to  that  particular  office  each  day. 

69.  On  the  1st  of  January  of  each  year,  agents  will 
commence  their  way-bills  with  number  one,  and  keep 
on  numbering  without  regard  to  dates,  advancing  a 
number  every  day  that  one  or  more  bills  are  forwarded. 

70.  Agents  can  make  bills  to  every  billing  office  as 
far  as  Salt  Lake  City  ;  packages  for  points  beyond  are 
to  be  billed  to  Salt  Lake  City  only.  Matter  for  non- 
reporting  or  way  offices  must  be  billed  to  the  end  of 
route  in  the  direction  same  may  be  going. 

71.  For  any  point  off  our  lines,  agent  billing  will 
only  make  way-bills  and  charges  to  the  office  to  which 
they  are  authorized  to  bill. 

72.  But,  if  the  charges  are  prepaid  to  destination, 
the  full  amount  paid  is  to  be  e.xtended  in  column  of 
"our  charges,"  and  in  "prepaid  column,"  adding  in 
column  of  "remarks,"  "^muVZ  through.''''  The  office 
that  receives  such  package  will  rebill  it  without  charge, 

saying,  "  Paid  on  —  Bill,"  giving  date  and  name  of 

office  issuing  the  bill. 

73.  "When  charges  are  to  collect,  and  rate  has  been 
agreed  through,  the  charges  should  be  entered  only 
to  point  billed  to,  and  the  price  agreed  upon  to  des- 
tination noted  in  column  of  remarks. 

74.  Agents  will  always  enter  on  way-bill,  in  column 
"  from  whom  received,"  the  name  of  the  party  who 
delivers  packages  or  goods  to  them. 

75.  When  goods  are  received  and  to  be  forwarded, 
marked  with  a  private  mark,  or  an  initial  letter,  the 
name  of  consignee  must  in  all  cases  be  ascertained,  and 
entered  with  that  of  consignor,  in  full,  upon  the  way- 
bill, with  destination. 

76.  Correct  copies  of  all  bills  forwarded  must  be 
kept  in  a  book  furnished  for  that  purpose,  and  of  those 
received  in  another  book  of  the  kind  required. 

77.  Agents  will  require  out  messengers  to  check 
every  entry  on  their  bills  with  initials  of  name. 


Number  1  to  be- 
gin first  day  of 
each  year. 


Where  to  bill  to. 


Billinf;  beyond 
regular  routes. 


Entry  of  prepaid 
through  charges. 


Collect  charges 
agreed  through. 


Name  of  conslgn- 


Goods  sent  un- 
der private  marlc 


Registers  of  Way- 
bills received  and 
sent. 


Messengers 
checlc 


2i      WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


Folding 
bills. 


Sletn.  way-bills 
from  regular  of- 
fices when  admis- 
sible. 


Mem.  way-bills 
to  be  forwarded 
with  estray  pack- 


Markinpf 
"  Ahead." 


Record  of  mcro. 
way-bills. 


Kfarkln!;  regular 
bills  for  short 
packages. 


'f^y-  78.  Agents  will  be  particular  to  fold  the  largest  size 
of  waj-bills  by  first  turning  them  over  lengthwise, 
into  the  size  of  the  smaller  ones,  and  then  transversely. 

MEMORANDUM  WAY-BILLS. 

79.  No  package  shall  be  forwarded  unless  accompa- 
nied by  a  regular  or  memorandum  way-bill,  to  guide 
and  govern  agents  through  whose  hands  it  must  pass. 
At  all  billing  offices  a  regular  way-bill,  duly  numbered 
and  registered,  must  be  sent  forward  with  all  pack- 
ages. The  only  exception  allowable  is  when  forward- 
ing a  package  after  the  final  disposition  of  the  regular 
way-bill  has  been  made,  (such  as  noting  it  on  abstract 
and  inclosing  it  in  scaled  treasure-bag,)  in  which  case 
a  memorandum  bill  must  be  .sent. 

80.  AVhen  a  package  becomes  detached  or  separated, 
en  route,  from  its  way-bill,  agents  discovering  same  in 
the  process  of  checking  other  bills,  will  at  once  make 
out  a  memorandum  way-bill,  noting  thereon  address, 
destination,  and  other  essential  particulars  of  which 
they  may  be  cognizant,  and  forward  same,  duly  check- 
ed, with  such  package. 

81.  When,  afterward,  the  regular  way-bill  happens 
to  arrive,  the  agent  making  the  memorandum  bill,  or, 
in  case  of  his  neglect,  anj'  agent  acquainted  with  the 
preceding  facts,  will  note  on  the  regular  way-bill,  in 
remarks  column,  "Ahead,"  and  will  omit  placing  his 
check-mark  thereon. 

82.  Agents  making  memorandum  way-bills,  espe- 
cially at  non-billing  offices,  must  preserve  a  record  of 
the  same,  giving  all  requisite  particulars  and  the  date 
of  forwarding  such  bills,  which  record  may  be  cancel- 
ed when  regular  way-bill  is  known  to  have  gone  for- 
ward. 

83.  It  occurs  more  frequently  that  a  regular  way- 
bill becomes  separated  from  its  packages  and  goes  for- 
ward in  advance  of  them.  In  such  cases,  agents  will 
mark  all  such  entries  "  Short,"  and  preserve  a  record 
thereof.  Sec  paragraphs  22,  25,  pp.  14,  15.   The  same 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  ^CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPKKSS.  25 


ion  In 
ng- 


entry  afterward  appearing  on  a  memorandum  bill  with 
the  package,  must  have  noted  thereon,  if  not  so  noted 
already,  "  Reg.  W.  B.  ahead." 

84.  No  way-bill  entry  shall  be  cheeked  by  any  Precautioi 

^  checking. 

agent  with  his  initial,  unless  the  thing  called  for  is  ac- 
tually within  his  observation  and  control,  either  on 
hand  or  in  transitu. 

85.  Memorandum  way-bills  must  not  be  entered  on  J*'™'-  wnsnot  to 

be  accounted  for. 

the  regular  way-bill  registers,  nor  be  accounted  for  on 
abstracts  or  statements. 

MEM.  BILLS  TO  NON-BILLING  OFFICES. 

86.  Agents  at  regular  billing  offices,  when  sending  Mems.  to  be  sent 

,  ,      ,  vii-  1,        iu        •  regular  bil- 

packages,  etc.,  to  non-billing  oifaces  where  there  is  a  ling  offices, 
key  to  the  treasure-boxes,  will  forward  with  such 
packages,  in  addition  to  the  entry  on  the  regular  way- 
bill addressed  to  billing  office  at  terminus  of  route,  a 
memorandum  way-bill,  addressed  to  the  non  billing  of- 
fice to  which  the  package  is  destined,  on  which  particu- 
lars of  charges,  etc.,  are  given;  and  said  memorandum- 
bill  will  be  retained  by  agent  to  whose  office  it  is  ad- 
dressed, until  the  package  or  packages  recorded  thereon  *Iem.  to  be  re- 
.  .  ,      ,       taineil  until 

are  delivered,  when  it  shall  be  forwarded,  with  the  goods  are  deii- 
money  collected  for  charges,  to  the  office  to  which  re-  fo^avded**  ^Uh 
gular  way-bill  was  addressed.    The  number  and  des-  '"""ey. 
tination  of  such  regular  way-bill  must«be  noted  on  the 
memorandum,  by  the  agent  making  it.    (See  form, 
pp.  26,  27.) 

CUSTODY  AND  HANDLING  OF  FREIGHT. 

87.  All  employes  handling  freight  are  required  to  injury  to  be  pre- 
do  their  duty  with  such  thoughtful  care,  that  the  frail- 

est  article  may  be  forwarded  with  the  certainty  of 
being  delivered  entire  and  uninjured.  To  effect  this, 
it  is  necessary  that  no  article,  of  whatever  description, 
be  thrown,  dropped,  or  allowed  to  fall,  no  matter  how 
short  the  distance. 

88.  Nor  shall  it  be  allowed  that  packages,  etc.,  evi-  Disposition 
dently  of  a  frail  character,  shall  be  thoughtlessly  or  trailsFtu!'"''''^' '° 


CO 

u 

tt 

Q. 
X 
u 


III 
> 
O 

0) 

d 

o 

o 

< 
ii. 


(0 

ill 


Eh 

H 

u 

ff 
M 
<! 
h) 

t< 
< 

CQ 

i 

■a 
■a 


Remarks. 

Return  C.  0.1).  free. 

•predajj 

O 
O 

o     o  o 

O       O  lO 

•S39i»qo 
jno 

o     o     o  c  o 
O      iO      lO  o 

r-l       00       rl  '51 

•ssiliBqo 

OS 

> 

a 
_o 

rt 
c 

n 

Ft.  Bridgcr, 

Do. 

Do. 

Do. 
nvcr.) 

To  wbom  addressed. 

W.  A.  Carter, 
Col.  W.  Mann, 
C,  E.  Catlin, 
J.  T.  Gilmer, 
W.  B.  No.  3  to  De 

From  whom  received. 

Wm.  Jennings, 
Walker  Bros., 
John  Meeks, 

jd.  A.  r  OKI, 

(On  Reg. 

innoaiy 

0  0 

0  IO 

0  0 
10  1-1 

•iqapAV 

la 

Articles. 

1  Letter,  Cy., 
1  Box, 

1  Pkg.  &  C.  0.  D. 
1  Pel., 

CO 
(0 

u 

K 

OL 

X, 

in 

a 
z 

< 

K 
III 
> 
O 

(0 

■ 

o 

Q 


O 

< 

(0 
UI 


i 

Coin  Through.* 

Acc.  Tel.  Contract. 
Coin  Through.* 

O  lO 
H3  CI 

lo  .5 

^-^         a  O 

ano 

O       O        -  lO 
lO        lO       ttj  d 

CJ  to 

Destination. 

Sacramento, 
Salt  L.  City, 

Do. 
Austin, 
ine  Express.) 

To  whom  addressed. 

Butler  Ives, 
J.  S.  Roberson, 
A.  C.  Bassett, 

XT  C'Un^.^rt^.l 

tl.  U.  bnerwooa, 
eclto S.  L.  C.bysa 

From  whom  received. 

Capt.  I.  n.  Bates, 
L.  B.  Scott, 
Telegraph  Office, 
t>.  1  oung, 
(*Coin  forward 

'lanoniY 

00  001 
00  09 

o 

Articles, 

1  Letter  Val. 
1  Pkg., 
1  Coil  Wire, 
1  Pkg., 

28      WELLfs,  FAUGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


willfully  so  disposed  of,  along  with  stouter  packages 
and  freight,  as  to  cause  them  to  be  crushed  and  broken. 
Neglect  to  be  In-      89.  A  neglect  of  ordinary  precaution  in  this  par- 
ticular, which  has  been  heretofore  of  frequent  occur- 
rence, will  not  be  tolerated  in  future,  if  the  guilty  can 
possibly  be  detected. 
Precautionary^       90.  Boxes  and  Other  packages  upon  which  is  mark- 
carefully  heeded,  cd  "  This  side  up,"  "  Keep  dry,"  "  Handle  with  care," 
or  with  any  precautionary  request  whatsoever,  shall 
be  handled  and  disposed  of  accordingly,  to  the  utmost 
ability  of  those  having  charge  thereof. 
Goods  not  to  be      91.  When  the  messenger  has  occasion  to  leave  the 

left  unguarded. 

car  or  coach  at  a  station,  as  for  meals,  the  agent  at 
such  station  will  either  remain  in  charge  of  his  ex- 
press, or  substitute  a  suitable  person  to  watch  over  it 
during  the  messenger's  absence ;  and,  in  all  such  cases. 
Messengers  not  the  messenger  will  make  it  his  especial  care  to  lock 
quish'^tbeir  keys!  the  Safe,  treasure-boses,  or  trunks  containing  valuable 
packages,  before  absenting  liimsclf,  and  to  take  the 
keys  with  him. 

SERVICES  OF  STAGE  DRIVERS. 

Conditions  and      92.  Drivers  of  stages  should  not  be  intrusted  with 

<|UaliAcatlons.  ° 

the  care  of  money  or  valuable  packages,  for  the  deli- 
ver)' of  the  same  and  the  collection  of  charges  there- 
on, unless  thoroughly  competent,  and  of  known  and 
undoubted  integrity ;  and  in  no  case  shall  services  be 
required  at  the  hands  of  any  driver  which  may  inter- 
fere with  the  proper  care  and  control  of  his  team,  or 
conflict  with  any  of  his  regular  duties. 

DELIVERING  GOODS  WITH  WAGONS. 

Goods  to  be  kept  93.  In  carrying,  for  delivery,  money  packages  and 
secure.  specie  on  our  wagons,  they  must  be  kept  in  a  safe  or 

trunk,  locked,  and  constantly  in  sight. 
Identlflcation.         94.  The  person  delivering  such  packages  must  re- 
quire the  satisfactory  identification  of  parties  address- 
ed, (when  personally  unknown  to  him,)  in  writing. 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  29 


along  with  the  signature  receipting  for  same  on  his 
delivery-book. 

95.  Receipts  must  be  taken  for  all  articles  thus  de-  Receipts, 
livered. 


COLLECTION  AND  COMMISSION  DEPARTMENT. 

NATURE  OF  COLLECTIONS. 

96.  There  is  no  branch,  perhaps,  of  the  business  of 
the  Overland  Express,  in  which  the  genius  and  tact  of 
an  agent  can  be  so  forcibly  and  advantageously  exer- 
ted, as  in  that  relating  to  the  successful  collection  of 
money,  and  its  prompt  and  satisfactory  return  to  the 
proper  owner. 

97.  In  entering  upon  the  general  instructions  rela- 
ting to  this  branch,  particular  attention  is  invited  to 
the  material  difference  of  meaning  conveyed  in  the 
various  descriptive  terms  applied  to  collections— a  dif- 
ference which,  if  overlooked,  may  occasion  difficult}', 
confusion,  and  sometimes  loss.  Thus,  collections, 
when  first  forwarded,  are  treated  simply  as  "Col- 
lections ;"  when  returned  paid,  as  "  Paid  Collections ;" 
when  returned  not  paid,  as  "  Returned  Collections." 

98.  A  C.  0.  D.  (collect  on  delivery)  is  a  distinct 
variety  of  collection.  This  mark  always  means  that 
there  is  something  else  to  be  collected  on  goods  be- 
side the  charges,  before  they  are  delivered — the  cost 
of  purchase,  for  example — and  the  goods  must  not  be 
opened  or  delivered  until  the  collection  is  paid.  The 
shipper's  instructions  leave  us  no  discretion  in  this 
matter. 

99.  A  "  Collection"  may  consist  of  a  check,  draft, 
note,  due-bill,  or  other  evidence  of  indebtedness,  which 
is  sent  forward  to  be  presented  to  the  debtor  for  pay- 
ment, but  is  usually  unaccompanied  by  any  other 
matter  except  the  instructions  of  the  agent  forward- 
ing, and  which  must,  in  all  cases,  govern  the  actions 
of  the  agent  making  the  collection. 


Importance  of 
this  branch. 


Descriptive  terms 
in  use. 


Nature  of  a  C.  0. 
D.  collection. 


Nature  of  a  col- 
lection proper. 


Instructions  to  be 
obeyed. 


TREATMENT  OF  COLLECTIONS. 


Use  of  proper  en- 
velopes. 


Sijrnatiircs  to  be 
certified. 


Non-payment  to 
I)e  promptly  re- 
ported. 


Importance  of  so 
doing. 


Collections  to  be 
returned  if  not 
paid. 


Correspondence 
in  relation  to  col- 
lections. 


Money  to  be  la- 
lien  in  payment. 


100.  When  drafts,  notes,  or  bills  are'taken  for  col- 
lection, the  Company's  collection  receipt  must  always 
be  given,  and  the  draft,  note,  or  bill,  inclosed  in  the 
proper  collection  envelope. 

101.  When  a  note  or  draft  is  drawn  to  the  order  of 
the  party  sending  it  for  collection,  agents  must  not 
fail  to  procure  the  signature  or  indorsement  of  such 
person  on  the  back  of  such  paper,  before  forwarding 
it,  and  must  certify  beneath  that  the  signature  of  in- 
dorser  is  genuine.  Much  delay  and  loss  is  caused  by 
a  neglect  of  this  important  rule. 

102.  Where  collections  arc  due  at  sight,  or  on  de- 
mand, and  not  paid  on  presentation,  whether  ordered 
protested,  or  not  to  be  protested,  the  office  sending 
must  be  immediately  notified  of  the  fact.  And  wher- 
ever delay  occurs  from  absence  of  parties,  or  other 
cause,  advice  of  the  fact  must  be  immediately  returned. 

103.  This  is  vitally  important;  and  the  merchant 
and  public  generally  who  intrust  their  business  to  the 
company  are  ever  an.xious  for  information  in  case  of 
delay.  Forms  for  advice,  which  are  simple,  and  gen- 
erally rcq-ire  but  a  few  words,  are  furnished  each  of- 
fice. 

104  As  a  general  rule,  where  collections  are  not 
promptlj'  paid,  they  should  be  returned  ;  but  where  an 
agent  deems  it  advisable  to  hold  for  a  short  time,  the 
fact  must  be  advised. 

105.  Any  advice  or  correspondence  in  regard  to 
collections  must  be  addressed  to  the  office  sending 
them,  and  in  no  insUmce  to  the  parties  from  whom 
they  are  received.  Any  deviation  from  this  only  tends 
to  delay  and  confusion. 

100.  Sound  discretion  should  be  used  with  regard 
to  the  kind  of  monej'  taken  on  collections.  The  cus- 
tom of  the  place  where  the  collection  is  made  deter- 
mines the  kind  of  money  in  which  it  is  to  be  paid, 
unless  the  face  of  the  paper  specifies  it.    As  far  as 


WELLS,  FARGO  k  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  31 


possible,  the  money  best  suited  to  the  party  for  wliom 
the  collection  is  made,  should  be  collected. 

10' 

of  collection  by  draft,  the  draft  must  be  made  p.ayable  i.aymcnt 
to  the  order  of  the  party  in  whose  favor  the  collection 
is  made.    Never  to  the  order  of  the  Express  Company. 


When  instructions  are  given  to  return  proceeds  M.inner  of  draw- 

^  ^  drafts  used  in 


COLLECTIONS  ORDERED  PROTESTED. 

108.  Too  much  care  can  not  be  exercised  in  receiv- 
ing collections  liable  to  protest  for  non-acceptance  or 
non-payment,  as  herein  the  company  incurs  a  direct 
pecuniary  responsibility.  To  protest  a  paper  is  to 
transfer  it,  after  failing  to  procure  acceptance  or  pay- 
ment, to  the  hands  of  a  notary  public,  or  other  ofBccr 
having  legal  authority,  who  will  present  the  same  for 
acceptance  or  payment,  and  in  defoult  thereof,  will,  in 
his  official  capacity,  attach  a  written  protest  to  such 
paper,  and  at  once  notify  the  drawer  and  indorser,  or 
indorsers,  that  the  same  has  been  protested,  and  that 
holders  look  to  them  for  payment. 

100.  Agents  are  authorized  to  pay  the  usual  fee  for 
this  service,  and  report  same,  in  return  of  protested 
collection,  as  "advanced  charges." 

110.  The  agent  receiving  a  collection  r'lould  ascer- 
tain the  wish  of  the  party,  in  regard  to  protesting^ 
and  give  receipt  in  accordance — and  note  instructions 
carefully  on  the  envelope. 

111.  He  should  procure  in  all  cases  the  residence 
of  drawers  of  drafts,  and  indorsers  of  notes,  and  write 
same  under  the  name  of  such  drawer  or  indorser. 

113.  "When  acceptance  of  time-drafts  is  procured, 
and  the  same  are  not  paid  at  maturity,  they  must  in  all 
cases  be  protested  for  non-payment. 

113.  When  a  time-draft  has  been  presented  for  ac- 
ceptance, and  the  same  declined,  it  must  be  protested 
for  such  iLOn-acccptnncc,  and  held  until  maturit}'^,  and 
again  presented,  this  time  for  payment,  in  default  of 
which,  it  must  again  be  protested  for  non-payment, 
and  then  returned  to  office  from  whence  it  came. 


Nature  of  .a  pro- 
test. 


Notary's  fee. 


Wishes  of  sender 
to  be  cousulted. 


Residences  of 
drawers  and  in- 
dorsers. 


Protest  for  non- 
payment of  ac- 
cepted drafts. 


Protest  for  non- 
acceptance  and 
for  non-payment. 


32       WELLS,  FARGO  <t  CO.'S  OVERLAXU  EXPRESS. 


Kxpensea  and 
charges. 


Special  Instruc- 
tions to  be  obey- 
ed. 


Form  of  an  ac- 
ceptance. 


Consequences  of 
failure  to  protest. 


Necessity  of  pro- 
lestint;  on  day 
when  due. 


No  contingency 
wbatever  serving 
as  an  excuse. 


Time  and  place 
of  presentation. 


Rule  In  reliitlon 
to  Sundays  and 
public  holidays. 


agent  making  proper  charge  in  "  Our  charges"  col- 
umn, for  trouble  and  the  return  of  collection,  and 
billing  as  "Advanced  charges"  the  expenses  incurred 
for  protests.  Special  attention  is  directed  to  this  pe- 
culiarity in  treatment  of  time-drafts. 

114.  Any  special  instructions  written  on  the  enve- 
lope, conflicting  with  the  above,  rau.st,  however,  be 
strictly  adhered  to.  For  further  information  of  agents 
in  making  collections  of  this  character,  the  following 
remarks  are  subjoined. 

ACCEPTANCE  OF  A  BILL  OR  DRAFT. 

115.  An  acceptance  is  an  engagement  to  pay  a  bill 
or  draft,  and  is  done  by  the  drawee  (the  person  on 
whom  the  draft  is  made)  writing  "accepted"  across 
the  face  of  the  paper,  and  subscribing  his  name ;  and 
when  a  specified  time  of  payment  is  mentioned,  (as 
ten  days  after  sight,)  the  drawee  should  date  the  time 
of  acceptance. 

110.  When,  in  case  of  time-drafts,  instructions  are 
to  protest,  which  must  be  for  non-acceptince  and  non- 
payment, and  it  is  not  accepted  or  paid,  it  must  be 
twice  protested  as  indicated  above,  or  the  drawee  and 
indorsers  are  discharged  from  liability. 

117.  A  draft  must  be  presented  for  payment,  and 
properly  protested  on  the  day  it  becomes  due,  or  the 
Express  Companj'  will  be  held  liable  for  its  payment, 
and  the  indorser  exonerated.  Even  the  bankruptcy, 
insolvency,  or  death  of  the  acceptor,  (or  drawee,)  will 
not  excuse  a  neglect  to  demand  payment  of  the  as- 
signees or  executors,  nor  will  the  insufficiency  of  a 
draft  or  note,  in  any  respect,  constitute  an  excuse,  so 
far  as  the  Company  is  concerned,  for  non-payment 

118.  The  presentment  should  be  made  at  a  reason- 
able time  of  day,  when  the  bill  is  due.  If  the  paper 
is  made  payable  at  any  specified  place,  it  must  be  pre- 
sented at  such  place  for  payment. 

119.  If  a  draft  or  note  falls  due  on  Sunday  or  any 
public  holiday,  and  if  such  holiday  fall  on  Monday, 


■\VELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  33 


the  paper  becomes  due  on  Saturday,  except  in  States 
where,  by  law,  it  becomes  due  the  day  after  Sunday 
or  holiday. 

120.  When  any  doubt  arises  as  to  the  proper  course 
to  be  pursued  in  making  a  collection,  agents  should 
always  consult  a  lawyer  or  bank  officer,  or  some  one 
competent  to  advise,  and  in  all  cases  the  agent  should 
acquaint  himself  with  the  statutes  bearing  on  this  sub- 
ject in  the  locality  where  he  resides. 

121.  Agents  must  avoid,  in  all  cases,  receiving  any 
amount  on  account  of  a  collection  unless  the  whole  is 
paid — except  when  special  instructions  arc  given  to  do 
so ;  in'  such  cases,  the  amount  must'  be  remitted  to 
the  office  sending,  with  particular  advice. 

122.  When  coin  is  remitted  for  paid  collections,  it 
should  be  put  up  in  a  separate  package,  sealed  and 
distinctly  marked,  referring  to  the  number  on  the  en- 
velope. No  coin  must  be  sealed  and  forwarded  in  the 
collection  envelope. 

123.  Agents  are  required  to  re-bill  returned  or  paid 
collections  to  the  office  from  whence  they  were  billed, 
and  all  answers  to  inquiries  in  relation  to  outstanding 
collections  must  be  returned  in  the  same  way. 

124.  A  book  is  furnished  each  regular  ofBce,  in 
which  all  collections  made  or  forwarded  must  be  en- 
tered, as  per  form  therein. 

C.  0.  D.  COLLECTIONS 

125.  When  bills  are  taken,  accompanying  goods  to  Treatment  of  c. 
be  collected  on  delivery  of  same,  they  must  be  inclosed  packages. 

in  the  printed  "  C.  0.  D."  envelope  for  that  purpose,  and 
marked  plainly  "  C.  0.  D."  on  the  package,  and  also 
the  amount  of  bill  to  be  collected,  and  a  "  C.  0.  D." 
label  attached. 

12G.  Enough  charges  must  be  made  on  the  goods  to  charges  to  em- 
pay  for  making  the  collection  and  returning  the  mo-  money."^'"™  °^ 
ney,  and  the  funds  are  to  be  returned  accordingly,  free 
of  further  charge. 

127.  A  portion  of  the  bill  must  not  be  collected  part-payments. 


Authorities  to  be 
consulted  in  case 
of  doubt. 


Part-payments  to 
be  refused  un- 
less otherwise  in- 
structed. 


Coin  remittances 
in  payment. 


How  to  return 
collections  and 
correspondence. 


Collection  regis- 
ter. 


34:       WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAID  EXPRESS. 


Short  Advices. 


Discretion  of 
Agents. 


Belays  to  \yc  re- 
ported. 


Reporting  C.  O. 
D.'s  to  General 
onice. 


on  the  delivery  of  a  portion  of  the  goods,  unless  by 
special  instructions,  in  writing,  from  the  shipper. 

128.  AViicn  "C.  0.  D."  goods  arrive  in  advance  of, 
or  without  the  collection,  the  office  from  whence  they 
were  sent  must  immediately  be  notified,  giving  the 
name  of  consignee  and  consignor,  if  known. 

129.  If  the  agent  is  satisfied  of  the  proper  amount 
to  be  collected,  he  may  deliver  the  good.-;,  on  payment 
of  same,  and  remit  to  the  oflBce  from  whence  goods 
were  received,  giving  such  information  as  will  enable 
the  agent  at  that  point  to  deliver  the  nvoncy  to  the 
proper  owner. 

130.  'Where,  in  the  cas^of  C.  0.  D.'s,  unusual  delay 
occurs  in  parties  not  taking  their  goods,  advice  of  the 
same,  with  cause,  should  be  returned. 

131.  When  any  C.  O.  D.  package  has  been  on  hand 
three  months,  the  agent  must  report  it  to  Salt  Lake 
Cit}-  office  with  advice,  unless  he  has  official  instruc- 
tions to  retain  it  a  lonsrer  time. 


Collections  to  be 
recnvelopcd. 


Transferring  In- 
structions. 


How  relndosed 
in  original  enve- 
lope. 


TRANSFERRING  COLLECTIONS  TO  CONNECT- 
ING EXPRESSES. 

132.  In  order  to  insure  the  return  to  the  OVER- 
LAND EXPRESS  of  all  collections  passing  out  of  the 
Company's  hands,  to  other  companies,  and  also  that 
agents  may  have  less  trouble  in  keeping  their  accounts 
of  such  business,  agents  at  transfer  offices  will,  in 
each  and  every  instance,  reeiicelope  all  coUertions 
tranaferred  to  other  companies,  retaining  the  original 
envelope  in  their  possession,  until  the  return  of  collec- 
tion. 

133.  In  filling  out  the  new  envelope,  it  must  bo 
made  out  in  favor  of  "  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.,"  at  the 
office  where  transferred,  and  particular  attention  must 
be  paid  to  enter  thereon  all  special  or  general  instruc- 
tions, given  on  the  original  envelope. 

134.  AVhen  such  collections  are  returned,  they 
must  be  inclosed  in  the  original  envelope,  without 
hrealing  the  teal  of  the  company  returning  it,  and 


WELLS,  FAKGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS,  35 


again  be  sealed,  with  the  office  seal,  in  tlic  usual 
way. 

COMMISSIONS. 

135.  The  most  popular  feature  of  an  Express  is,  Special  jmicbas- 
that  it  furnishes  a  reliable,  speed}',  and  responsible 

medium  for  the  transaction  of  all  kinds  of  business  at 
places  more  or  less  remote  from  each  other ;  and  in 
furtherance  of  this  design,  every  encouragement  is  to 
be  given  to  its  use  for  the  purpose  of  making  special 
purchases,  and  for  attending  to  other  matters  of  coin- 
mission. 

136.  All  orders  for  purchase  of  goods,  or  articles  Commission  cn- 
of  any  kind,  must  be  forwarded  in  "  Commission  Envoi-  used'."'''  *°  ^ 
opes,"  and  be  accompanied  by  cash  sufficient  to  cover  casU  to  accom- 
the  full  estimated  amount  of  purcliase.  In  all  cases  i""'>' "^ers. 
where  this  rule  is  not  observed,  the  agent  sending  the 
commission  will  be  held  personally  responsible  for  the 

money  expended,  or  the  commission  will  be  returned 
unattended  to. 

137.  In  general,  commissions  must  be  addressed  to 
"  Agent  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.,"  etc. 

LETTER  DEPARTMENT. 

138.  Agents  will  endeavor  to  build  up  this  branch  Cai-e  and  uis- 
of  the  business,  by  promptness  in  the  delivery  of  P"''^''' 
letters,  and  care  and  dispatch  in  forwarding  them. 

Every  exertion  must  be  made  to  find  the  place  of  bus- 
iness or  residence,  if  unknown,  of  persons  addressed, 
and  as  soon  as  letters  are  received,  a  messenger,  where 
there  is  one,  should  be  sent  to  deliver  them. 

139.  If  parties  can  not  be  found,  a  list  of  the  let-  List  of  letters  on 
ters  remaining  in  an  office  must  be  kept  in  some  con- 

spicuous  place. 

140.  FRANKS  (or  pre-paid  government  envelopes)  Requisiiio:>  tor 
must  be  ordered  from  Cashier  Express  Department,  f'"'^'^'^ 

Salt  Lake  City,  in  sufficient  time  to  get  them  before  pre- 
vious supply  is  exhausted.  They  will  be  sent,  billed 
as  "advanced  charges"  for  the  amount  of  their  value. 


36       WELLS,  FARGO  A  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


"OLD  HORSE,"  OR  PACKAGES  ON  HAND. 

All  charftes  ac-  Agents  must  account  to  the  ecneral  office  in 

counted  for.,  "  ° 

their  statements  for  the  charges  for  every  package 
received,  whether  delivered  or  not. 
Annual  reports      142.  At  the  end  of  each  year  a  list  of  all  packaRes, 

to  General  OQice.  r        o  i 

cither  monej',  parcels,  or  goods,  that  have  accumulated 
during  the  j'ear,  must  be  returned  to  Salt  Lake  City 
Office  under  the  head  of  "Old  Horse,"  giving  address  of 
package,  when  received,  where  from,  and  amount  of 
charges  due  ;  a  copy  so  returned  must  be  kept  in  the 
office  sending. 

Disposition  of  0.  143.  Earnest  and  persistent  efforts  must  be  made 
by  an  agent  to  deliver  all  packages  received.  If, 
however,  any  remain  on  hand  at  the  end  of  the  month, 
with  charges,  agents  can  use  such  funds  as  they  may 
take  in  on  the  "  Out"  business  between  first  of  month 
and  the  time  that  the  statement  is  rendered,  to  make 
it  good  with  Cashier.  If  the  funds  thus  received  arc 
insufficient  in  this  time  to  pay  the  amount  owing  on 
"0.  II.,"  a  due-bill  for  such  amount  may  be  sent, 
which  due-bill  will  be  returned  as  '•  advanced  charges" 
from  Salt  Lake  City  Office.  The  time  that  elapses 
between  the  sending  of  the  due-bill  and  its  return  to 
the  office  issuing  it,  will,  it  is  thought,  afford  ample 
opportunity  to  have  taken  in  money  enough  to  pay  it. 

SETTLING  WITH  GENERAL  OFFICE. 

GENERAL  REMARKS. 

Tiie  abstract  and  144.  Two  Separate  reports  and  settlements  of  the 
t  le  statement.  business  of  an  office  are  required  to  be  made  each  month, 
or  at  such  intervals  of  time  as  the  Traveling  Agent 
may  direct — the  one  to  embrace  the  contents  of  way- 
bills forwarded  from'an  office,  (the  "  Out  Business,"  as 
it  is  called ;)  and  the  other  that  of  wa}'-bills  received, 
(or,  the  "  In  Business.")  As  these  accounts,  with  but 
few  exceptions  are  to  be  rendered  monthly,  the  follow- 


WELLS,  FAEGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  37 


ing  rules  will  very  generally  apply.  The  first  of 
these  settlements,  that  of  the  "Out  Business,"  will  be 
known  and  always  referred  to  as  the  "  Abstract ;"  and 
the  second,  or  "  In  Business,"  as  the  "  Statement." 


THE  ABSTRACT. 

145.  Immediately  after  the  close  of  a  month — that 
is,  on  the  first  day  of  the  succeeding  month — an  Ab- 
stract must  be  made  out,  upon  the  blanks  furnished  for 
that  purpose,  with  the  date,  number,  and  destination  of 
each  way-bill  sent  during  the  month  just  ended,  and 
the  total  amounts,  if  any,  of  the  several  charges  co- 
lumns of  the  same,  each  under  its  proper  heading. 

140.  All  bills  sent  to  any  one  office  will  be  reported 
in  consecutive  order,  and  in  such  rotation  in  regard 
to  the  alphabetical  arrangement  of  offices  for  the  con- 
venience of  the  accountant  at  the  General  Office,  as  the 
Traveling  Agent  may  prescribe. 

147.  When  all  bills  have  been  thus  recorded  on  the 
Abstract,  the  several  columns  must  be  correctly  footed, 
and  the  diffi;rence  between  the  "  Prepaid,"  or  cash  re- 
ceived column,  and  the  "  Advanced  Charges,"  or  cash 
disbursed  column,  will  determine  the  amount  of  credit 
due  from,  or  indebtedness  to,  the  General  Office  at  Salt 
Lake  City. 

148.  If  the  result  be  in  favor  of  the  latter,  the  agent 
will  at  once  remit  to  the  Cashier  of  the  Overland  E.x- 
press  at  Salt  Lake  City,  along  with  his  Abstract,  the 
whole  amount  due  thereon. 

149.  If  the  result  be  found  in  favor  of  the  agent,  he 
will  hold  such  credit  over  until  the  settlement  of  his 
"  In  Business,"  or  "  Statement,"  when  he  will  reimburse 
himself  by  reporting  the  same  in  i)art  payment  of  any 
balance  which  he  may  find  himself  owing  on  the  latter. 

150.  Agents  will  note  at  foot  of  the  Abstract  what 
is  sent  in  payment. 

151.  Messenger  Abstracts  are  to  be  returned  from 
office  settling  them,  same  as  its  own,  except  that  the 
name  of  messenger  must  be  used  instead  of  office. 


Time  of  maklug 
abstract. 


Classification  of 
way-biila. 


Balance  of  In- 
debtedness. 


Balance  due  Gen- 
eral Oflice  to 
accompany  ab- 
stract. 


Balance  due 
afxent  to  be  car- 
ried to  statement. 


Payment  of  bal- 
ance. 


Messengers'  ab- 
stracts. 


3S        WELLS,  FARGO  4  CO.'s  OVEKLAXD  EXPRESS. 


Numbering 
stract:!. 


Reporting  all 
way-bills. 


Abstract  enve- 
lopes and  label  9. 


152.  Abstracts  will  be  numbered  1,  2,  3,  etc.,  in 
consecutive  order,  beginning  with  the  first  month  of 
each  year ;  but  all  the  sheets  of  any  one  abstract  will 
have  the  same  number. 

153.  Every  way-bill  made  at,  and  sent  from  an  office, 
must  be  reported  on  the  Abstract  from  that  office, 
without  regard  to  whether  it  contain  any  charges  or 
not. 

154.  Official  envelopes  in  which  to'  inclose  Abstracts, 
and  labels  for  packages,  when  funds  are  sent  to  pay  the 
amount  due  on  an  Abstract,  will  be  furnished  each 
office,  and  are  to  be  used  for  that  purpose  only.  Re- 
mittances for  Abstracts  and  Statements  must  be  made 
separate!)'.  In  the  dail}'  routine  of  business,  agents 
will  make  an  abstract,  on  tlie  book  provided  for  that 
purpose,  of  tlie  way-bills  sent,  from  whicli  the  classi- 
fied Abstract  is  made  at  the  end  of  each  month. 

See  form  of  an  Abstract,  page  39. 


SUitemenfs  to  he 
made  from  way- 
bills. 


I'niler  and  over- 
charges. 


Determining  bal- 
ance. 


THE  STATEMENT. 

155.  The  Statement,  being  a  report  of  the  "  In  Lus- 
ness"  of  an  office,  consists  of  an  account,  classified  and 
arranged  as  explained  in  instructions  relating  to  the 
Abstract,  of  the  way-bills  received  at  an  office.  Thus, 
the  Statement,  which  mimt,  in  all  cases,  he  made  di- 
rectly from  the  teay-bills,  and  upon  the  book*  and 
blanks  furnished  for  that  purpose,  gives  the  amount 
that  each  way-bill  received  calls  for. 

15G.  If  undercharges  or  overcharges  appear  noted 
on  a  way-bill,  the  agent  will  set  the  former  in  the 
"arf<i"  column  of  Statement,  and  the  latter  in  the 
deduct  column. 

157.  In  the  final  footing  of  the  Statement,  he  will 
add  to  the  total  of  "  Collect column  (for  the  amount 
of  which  he  is  accountable)  the  sum  total  of  under- 

*  Oflices  are  furnished  with  books  in  which  to  keep  copies  of  Statements 
and  Abstracts.  Every  error  will  be  corrected  by  sending  the  agent 
a  notice  of  the  s.ime,  whether  In  bis  favor  or  against  him.  All  bills 
undergo  two  examinations. 


(Form  of  an  Abstract.) 
ISo.  1. 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 

abstract  of  affias=J3ills  forwarded  from  SALT  LAKE  CITY  Office. 

From  January  /si  to  Jdnuaty  S/st,  iSGS,  inclusiye. 


RECAPITULATION. 
{Total  Amount  of  Bills,  $1854.17.) 


Prepaid  charges  $518  47 

Advanced  charges   231  15 

Balance  2S7  33 

Due  to  W.,  F.  &  Co. 


CcitSCMOT. 

Prepaid  charges  $159  25 

Advanced  charges   195  10 

Balance   35  S5 

Due  to  S.  L,  City  Agent. 


WAY-BILLS. 
Date. 


1S«S. 

January  1 
U 
9 

15 
20 
25 
80 
31 
'  1 
3 
G 
10 
15 
25 
'  10 
80 
'  15 
25 
31 
'  10 
'  20 
26 
'  1 
5 
15 
20 
80 
'  1 


Omaha 


Julesburg 
Chevcnne 


Kearney 
Central"  City 


Virginia 


Boise  City 


Adviinceil  Cliargefl. 


$126 


$231 


$195 


$426  25 


Advanced  charges. . . 
Total  of  Bills  and  Proof  of  Abstract. 


$173 
107 
885 
115 


50 
51 
114 


50 
5 
169 


$1427 
426 

$1354 


$331 
107 
20 


25 
25 
160 

18 
2 


00 


$1176 
677 


$1854 


$361 
115 


Trepa 


$518 


$3 


87 '50 


5  00 


$159  25 


$077  72 
Prepaid. 


Coin  herewith  to  balance  $287.32. 


Currency  Balance  carried  to  Statement  No.  1. 


(Signed) 


-,  Agent. 


40       WELLS,  FARGO  <b  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


Credits  In  paj< 
meat  of  balance. 


Cash  to  accom- 
pany wttlemeut. 


Toucbera. 


Unauthorized 
vouchers. 


Statements  to  em- 
brace all  bills  of 
a  month. 


Promptness  en- 
joined. 


Not  to  Include 
bills  of  a  succeed- 
ing month. 


Numbering  state- 
ments. 


charges,  and  from  the  aggregate  of  these  two  col- 
ums,  he  will  deduct  the  sum  total  of  overcharges, 
and  the  result  will  show  the  sum  of  his  indebted- 
ness. 

158.  The  agent  will  specify,  in  liquidation  of  this 
indebtedness,  the  nature  and  amount  of  disbursements 
made  by  him,  under  proper  authorit)-,  during  the 
period  of  time  embraced  in  this  Statement ;  the  bal- 
ance, if  an}',  due  him  on  .\bstract,  as  above  instructed ; 
and,  for  what  still  remains  due  by  him  on  Statement, 
he  will  promptly  forward  along  with  his  Statement, 
way-bills,  and  vouchers,  funds  to  cover  the  same,  to 
the  Cashier  to  Salt  Lake  City. 

159.  For  all  purchases  made  or  moneys  paid,  and 
for  which  credit  is  to  be  claimed  as  above,  receipts, 
in  duplicate,  must  be  taken  on  the  forms  provided — 
the  original  to  be  used  as  a  voucher  in  settlement  of 
Statement,  and  to  accompany  the  same,  and  the  du- 
plicate to  be  retained  on  file  in  the  office  where  such 
disbursements  arc  made. 

160.  Vouchers  for  disbursements  other  than  those 
made  with  the  consent  or  by  direction  of  the  Traveling 
Agent,  can  be  sent  with  Statement  in  payment  of 
amounts  due,  but  arc  liable  to  be  returned  if  not  ap- 
proved. 

101.  Statements  are  to  be  made  out  once  a  month, 
or  oftoncr,  if  so  instructed.  As  they  are  to  embrace  all 
received  bills  whose  dates  are  to,  and  include,  the  last 
day  of  the  month,  agents  will  wait  long  enough  for 
such  bills  to  reach  them  before  finishing  the  State- 
ment ;  but,  all  delay  in  rendering  the  account,  beyond 
one  of  unavoidable  necessity,  will  be  considered  as 
neglect  of  duty,  and  may  lead  to  more  serious  conse- 
quences. 

1C2.  A  Statement  shall  not  have  any  bills  entered 
on  it  that  bear  date  after  the  last  day  of  the  month 
for  which  it  is  rendered. 

103.  A  Statement  bears  one  number,  no  matter  how 
many  sheets  arc  used  in  making  it  out,  and  every 


(Form  of  a  Statement. ) 
No.  1. 

WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 

Statement  of  JUas^JSills  received  at  SALT  LAKE  CITY  Office. 

-From  January  isl  to  January  3/sf,  iSOS,  inclusive. 


Jan.  1 
2 
4 

6 
13 
\1 
25 
31 

"  15 

"  (i 

"  1 
4 
6 
10 
15 
20 
30 

"  5 
9 
19 
21 
29 

"  4 
8 
14 
22 
80 

"  15 
30 

"  1 
15 

"  1 
10 


Omaha, 


Julesburg, 

Kearney, 

Denver, 


Virginia,  Mon. 


Ft.  Benton, 
Bannaclc, 
Boise  City, 


$29125 
85  35 
B9  25 
6 


2  60, 
7,65 
23[40 
4 

36|T5 
11  65 

112.5: 

50 


884 
128 
88 
86 
5' 


200 


8S'  $1704  55 


Add  under-charges. 

Deduct  over-charges. 


I  SESn  IN  Pavment — 

lial.  due  me  on  Jan.  Abstract,  No.  1, 

Itent  Voucher,  

Sal.ary      "   ■.' 

.  Expense  *'   

Ci3H  herewith,  to  Balance,  ...  .  ..  .  . 


Coin.  Cur'ey. 


$41 


$442 
2 


445  88 
28  91 


$84,00 
84 '25 
55195 
5jS0 

32  50 
8'00 
130;.85 
I  I 
2  .'>0: 
7  65: 
83  23 

4  SO 

5  20 
86 1 75 
12|90 
11  25 

500 
24  75 

100  00 

21  .50 
28  20 
17162 
9  70 

13  00 


$1 


$638 
7 


645  S.'. 
18  00 


f421  42i  ,$627  85 


$9  70 


6  25 


Coin.  I 
Coin  18'0S 


Coin  4  20 


Coin  0  03 


$41  91 


Totallndehtedness. 


(Signed) 

S.  L.  City,  Jan.  6, 1868. 


Agent. 


42        WELI.S,  FARGO  <t  CO.  S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


Must  include  alt 
bills  within  speci- 
fied time. 

Receipts  on  sea- 
son contracts,etc. 


Nature  of  pay- 
ment to  be  s|>eci- 
fied. 


Balance  due  an 
agent  on  state- 
ment. 


Statements  etc., 
to  be  sent  in  one 
package. 


FoUlinjrand  pack- 
ing way-bills. 


way-bill  received  must  be  entered  thereon,  whether  it 
contains  any  thing  to  collect  or  not. 

1G4.  The  amounts  received  for  monthly  accounts 
or  season  contracts,  are  to  be  added  to  the  Statement, 
after  having  been  otherwise  completed  as  herein  di- 
rected. 

1C5,  Agents  will  note  at  foot  of  their  Statements 
what  they  send  to  pay,  .';pecifying  the  amount  of  each 
voucher,  and  the  amount  of  cash, 

IGC.  Should  it  happen  (which  is  not  probable)  that 
an  agent  finds  a  balance  due  him  on  Statement,  he  may 
request  the  Cashier  at  Salt  Lake  City  to  send  him  the 
amount  due,  or  he  may  carrj'  the  same  to  his  ne.xt 
Abstract 

107.  The  Statement,  the  way-bills,  the  vouchers,  and 
the  money  (if  any)  are  all  to  le  put  up  in  one  jmck- 
age*  and  sent  by  first  Express  to  "  Cashier,"  etc. 
Address-labels  for  such  packages  are  furnished,  and 
must  be  used, 

168,  The  way-bills  thus  returned  must  all  be  folded 
to  the  same  size,  about  4  inches  by  7  and  thus  indor- 
sed: 

No,  


180 


statements  to  be 
made  by  5th  of 

succeeding 
month. 


They  must  be  arranged  in  the  order  in  which  they  are 
entered  on  the  Statement,  and  not  rolled  tip  and  other- 
wise deranged. 

109,  Statements  and  way-bills  jnuat  be  sent  to  the 
head  office  at  Salt  Lake  City,  if  po.ssible,  by  the  5lh 
of  the  month  succeeding.  Both  Abstracts  and  State- 
ments must  always  be  made  complete  and  in  good 
shape,  and  signed  by  the  Agent. 

See  form  of  Statement,  page  41. 


*  In  case  of  coin  remittances  with  a  Statement,  the  money  may  be 
sent  in  a  separate  package,  carefully  addressed  and  labeled. 


"WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  43 


FREE  PRIVILEGES. 

TELEGRAPHING. 

170.  Aeents  are  required  to  make  a  judicious  use  Telegraph  lines 

.    .      »  ...  .        1        •  n        •,■  be  used  spar- 

of  the  free  privileges  enjoyed  reciprocally  with  the  ingiy. 
telegraph  companies  wherever  and  whenever  such  ar- 
rangement exists,  only  availing  themselves  of  the  use 
of  the  lines  when  the  interests  of  the  Express  abso- 
lutely demand  it,  and  avoiding  superfluous  words  in 
messages. 

171.  The  telegraph  lines  are  "  never  to  be  used  at  No  message  other 
the  request  of  other  parties  unless  the  regular  charges  ny""  imsiness'Vo 
on  such  messages  are  paid  by  the  parties  for  whose 

benefit  the  same  are  sent. 

172.  In  all  questions  that  do  not  require  instant  de-  Minor  questions 
cision,  agents  will  communicate  with  the  Traveling  ittter."^''^"'"'  '^^ 
Agent,  or  the  Manager  at  Salt  Lake  City,  by  letter,  using 

the  "Official  Business"  envelopes  of  the  Company, 
with  which  they  are  supplied 

FRANKING  PACKAGES. 

173.  A  like  scrupulous  use  must  be  made  by  agents  Agents  to  sign  for 
of  the  "franking  privilege,"  in  forwarding  their  own  Packages  sent 
packages,  etc.,  by  Express.    Each  package  franked  at 

an  office  must  bear  the  signature  of  the  agent  franking 
it,  who  will  be  charged  the  regular  tariff  rate  on  such 
package  if  the  frank  be  disapproved  by  the  Manager 
or  the  Traveling  Agent. 

174.  "When  a  package  is  entered  free  on  a  way-bill,  Reason  for  send- 

,        -,  ,  ..1  •  tm  1         •      ins  or  delivering 

give  the  address  of  the  consignor.    When  a  package  is  packages  free  to 
.  entered  on  way-bills  to  collect,  and  the  agent  deliver- 
ing it  "  offs  "  or  excuses  payment  of  the  same,  he  must 
always  state  explicitly  on  the  way-bill  the  reason  for 
such  action. 


be  stated. 


4-1:       ■\VELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


CORRESPONDEXCE. 

Communications  175.  All  communications  addressed  to  an  agent, 
writing.  whether  b}'  the  Manager,  Traveling  Agent,  or  other  of- 

ficer of  the  Company,  or  the  public,  in  relation  to  bus- 
iness, must  be  promptly  answered  in  writing, 
wiiom   to   ad-      17C.  Letters,  etc.,  of  business,  affecting  the  Division 
over  which  he  has  superv  ision,  must  be  addressed  to 
the  Traveling  Agent ;  those  referring  to  accounts,  to 
"  Cashier ;"  those  referring  to  letters  and  franks,  to 
"  Letter  Department ;"  to  collections,  "  Collection  De- 
partment," and  those  of  a  general  character  to  the 
"Manager,"  at  Salt  Lake  City, 
utters  to  be  con-      177.  Agents  in  writing  to  the  General  Office  will 
jJct.  '°  ™*        confine  themselves  in  one  letter  to  one  particular  sub- 
ject of  business — writing  a  separate  letter  for  each  or 
any  other  subject.    This  practice  is  necessa^  in  order 
that  the  matter  may  be  conveniently  referred  to  its 
proper  department. 
Correspondence,      178.  All  letters,  books,  and  papers  connected  with 
.^lo  be  pre-  ^j^^  business,  sent  to  an  office,  must  be  carefully  pre- 
served, and  agents  should,  when  practicable,  retain 
copies  or  memoranda  of  all  important  letters  written 
by  them  on  questions  of  business. 


BLANKS. 

Requisitions  to  All  blanks,  stationery,  and  other  articles  ne- 

be  wade  scasona-  ccssary  for  the  transaction  of  the  business,  will  be 
furnished  upon  application  to  the  Salt  Lake  City  Of- 
fice. Requisitions  should  be  made  at  least  one  month 
before  an  office  will  be  out  of  blanks,  on  a  separate 
slip  of  paper,  addressed  to  "  Cashier  Express  Depart- 
ment, Salt  Lake  City." 
Ko  alteration  of  180.  Agents  are  not  permitted  to  change  the  size 
eiic  allowed.  ^j.  ^j^^  blanks  provided,  by  tearing  off  portions, 

or  pasting  them  together. 


etc 
serv 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  45 


INSTRUCTIONS  TO  NON-BILLING  AGENTS. 

1.  On  long  stage  routes,  where  there  are  no  messen-  Range  of  duties, 
gers  employed,  persons  will  be  duly  authorized  by  the 
Traveling  Agent,  at  all  important  localities,  to  act  in 

the  capacity  of  local  agents,  whose  duty  it  shall  be 
to  check  on  way-bills  accessible  to  them  for  all  packa- 
ges, etc.,  recorded  thereon,  to  sell  franked  envelope.?, 
receive  and  deliver  packages,  and  otherwise  to  watch 
over  and  secure  the  Company's  interests. 

2.  Such  agents  will  observe,  as  the  first  principle  in  Receiptor  goods, 
their  business,  that  the  entries  on  a  way-bill  to  any 
particular  office,  render  such  office,  through  them,  lia- 
ble for  the  charges  theron,  and  the  safe  delivery  of  the 

package.  Local  agents  will  therefore  retain  at  their 
respective  offices  all  goods  addressed  within  their  pro- 
per delivery,  keeping  a  careful  record  of  the  way-bill 
entry  touching  the  same,  but  in  no  case  intercepting, 
or  delaying  the  regular  way-bill  itself.  Memorandum  Memorandum 
way-bills  should  accompany  all  such  packages,  which 
are  to  be  retained,  and  afterward  forwarded  to  the 
proper  office  with  the  money. 

3.  From  the  record  thus  made  they  will  proceed  to  Delivery  of  goods, 
effect  the  delivery  of  such  package,  taking  in  all  cases 

a  receipt  for  the  same  and  collecting  all  charges. 

4.  In  cases  of  money  or  important  packages  a  dupli-  Duplicate    r  e  - 
cate  receipt  should  be  taken  and  forwarded  to  the  office  package°s!  "^"'""^ 
to  which  the  way-bill  bearing  original  entry  was  des- 
tined.   This  is  to  protect  the  Company  against  frau- 
dulent claims  for  loss  or  damages. 

5.  The  money  collected  a^  charges,  collection,  or  Remitting  mo- 
C.O.D.,  must  be  promptly  forwarded  to  the  office  to 

which  the  way-bill  went,  unless  otherwise  instructed, 
inclosed  in  "Official  Bus."  envelope,  addressed  to  the 
agent  there,  and  sent  in  the  treasure-box. 

6.  When  packages  are  intrusted  for  delivery  to  any  Speci.ai  an-ange- 

.  •'  •'    ments  for  remit- 

person  not  havmg  a  key  to  the  treasure-box,  such  per-  ting, 
son  will  make  all  necessary  remittances  in  the  usual 


46       WELLS,  FABGO  <t  CO.'S  OVEBLAND  EXPRESS. 


waj',  addressed  to  the  proper  agent,  as  above ;  but  lie 
will  send  such  letter  of  remittance  in  the  personal 
charge  of  a  trusty  driver,  or  drivers,  to  the  nearest 
office  having  a  key,  where  the  letter  must  be  put  in 
treasure-box.  This  applies  only  to  packages  entered 
on  the  Express  page  of  passenger  way-bills. 

Stage  Freight.  7.  All  collections  made  for  freight,  etc.,  on  inside  of 
passenger  way-bills,  must  be  accounted  for  to  Paymas- 
ter Stage  Department. 

Acknowledgment      g.  The  agent  receivinR  such  money,  (which  must 

of  remittances—    .         .  ,        "  °  •"  ^ 

same  to  be  pre-  invariably  be  accompanied  by  a  letter  giving  full  par- 
sened.            ticulars,  such  as  number  of  way-bill,  address,  and 
amount  of  each  item,)  will  at  once  make  propernotation 
on  his  delivery-book,  opposite  such  entrj' ;  as,  for  ex- 
ample, "  Delivered  by  and  cash  here,"  adding 

thereto  his  name  or  initial,  as  recorded  evidence  of  his 
receiving  same.  He  will  then  write  across  the  face  of 
the  letter  accompanying  such  remittance,  "  Received," 
with  the  indorsement  of  his  name,  that  of  his  office, 
and  the  date  of  receipt;  and  thus  perfected,  he  will 
return  the  letter  as  his  acknowledgment  to  the  local 
agent  who  sent  it,  and  the  latter  will  preserve  such 
acknowledgment  on  file  for  reference,  and  his  own  pro- 
tection. 

neport  of  pack-      9.  Local  agents  will,  from  time  to  time — once  a 
ages  oD  band.      month  or  oftencr,  as  directed  by  the  Traveling  Agent — 
report  to  offices  responsible  for  the  same,  the  nature 
and  number  of  packages  remaining  on  hand,  date  and 
number  of  way-bills  containing  entry  of  same,  and 
amount  of  charges  to  be  collected  on  each ;  but  they 
will  continue  to  hold,  and  carefully  preserve,  such  pack- 
ages until  instructed  by  proper  authority  as  to  final 
disposition  to  be  made  thereof. 
ReceWnK  and      10.  Local  agents  at  non-billing  offices,  in  receiving 
forwardiuggoods.  packages,  etc.,  to  be  sent  by  Express,  may  receipt  for 
same,  and  will  forward,  with  a  memorandum  way-bill, 
to  the  first  billing  office  on  its  direct  route,  with  par- 
ticulars as  to  the  date  of  forwarding,  who  from,  where 
to,  charges,  etc.   A  record  of  such  transaction  must  be 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  47 


kept  for  reference.  The  billing  agent  will  then  tran- 
scribe the  entry  on  his  register,  and  bill  out  as  in  the 
regular  business  of  his  ofBce. 

11.  Local  agents  must  never  make  any  entry  wh.at-  Recuiai-  way- 
soever  on  a  regular  way  bill  passing  through  their 

hands. 

12.  When  any  package  is  sent  by  a  non-billing  agent  Packages  sent  for 

J  r  J  o   o         local  delivery. 

to  the  nearest  billing  office,  designed  for  delivery  there, 
he  will  accompany  it  with  the  memorandum  way-bill, 
giving  full  particulars,  and  keeping  record  of  same,  as 
before  instructed ;  and  the  agent  receiving  it  will  write 
the  same  on  any  regular  way-bill  received  from  the 
same  direction,  giving  amount  of  charges  as  an  "Add" 
in  "  Remarks  Column,"  and  never  in  such  a  way  as 

j     to  disturb  the  original  footing  of  the  bill.  (See  par. 

i      54,  page  19.) 

13.  When,  as  will  happen,  the  non-billing  agent  Trratmentof pre- 

'  II'  ,11       1""''  packages 

receives  pre-payment  of  charges  on  such  package,  he  sent  for  local  de- 
will  send  the  cash  in  an  envelope  with  the  package, 
addressed  to  the  proper  agent,  who  will  make  the  en- 
try on  some  regular  way-bill,  in  the  form  of  an 

"Add,"  as  above,  witli  the  notation,  "paid  to  

and  cash  here,"  and  placing  his  initial  to  the  entry, 
i  as  recorded  evidence  of  receipt.  On  the  delivery- 
book  of  such  receiving  agent,  he  must  give  the 
amount  thus  paid,  so  that  it  may  appear  in  his  cash 
receipts,  being  careful,  however,  to  deliver  such  pack- 
age without  further  charge. 

14.  When  such  pre-paid  package  is  to  be  sent  be-  Prepaid  packages 

,    ,      „        ,  .„.         rr.        1  ,   .1  -11  to  be  sent  abroad. 

yond  the  nrst  billmg  ofncc,  the  agent  there  will  ac- 
count for  such  on  way-bill  and  register,  as  "  pre- 
paid," in  the  same  manner  as  for  the  regular  business 
of  his  office. 

INSTRUCTIONS  TO  MESSENGERS. 

1.  Messengers  will  make  bills  of  all  goods  coming  Way-wiiing. 
into  their  hands,  on  their  routes,  same  as  an  office. 


48       WELLS,  FAKGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


Where  to  bill  to. 


Sclf-Reliance. 


Checking. 


Transferring  to 
agents. 


Absence  from  du- 
ty prohibiteU. 


Ileporting  deten- 
tions. 


Stage  passengers. 


and  render  abstracts  of  same  to  Cashier  at  Salt  Lake 
City. 

2.  When  packages  are  received  for  a  place  on  their 
route  where  the  Company  have  no  office,  tiicy  must  be 
billed  to  the  office  at  the  end  of  the  route.  That  of- 
fice will  look  to  the  messenger  for  the  amount  "  to  be 
collected." 

3.  Messengers  should  see  that  they  receive  all 
packages  entered  on  their  bilLs,  and  must  not  rely  on 
the  representations  of  agents  or  clerks. 

4.  They  must  check  each  entry  on  every  bill  car. 
ried  by  them,  with  their  initial  as  a  check-mark.  If 
any  item  recorded  is  short,  it  must  be  so  noted  on  the 
way-bill. 

5.  Blank  books  are  provided  in  which  all  way-bills 
are  to  be  entered,  and  on  which  the  person  receiving 
the  same  must  receipt.  Receipt-books  are  also  pro- 
vided, in  which  receipts  for  all  matter  delivered  en 
route  arc  to  be  taken.  (For  manner  of  identification, 
etc.,  see  previous  instruction.) 

0.  At  the  end  of  their  route  they  must  require  the 
agent  to  receive  their  goods  and  treasure,  and  check 
for  same,  thereby  relieving  themselves  of  responsi- 
bility. 

7.  No  messenger  can  be  allowed  to  absent  himself 
from  duty,  by  substituting  another  person  to  act  in 
his  stead,  without  special  permission  from  the  Travel- 
ing Agent,  except  in  case  of  illness. 

8.  AVhen  a  messenger  is  detained  by  accident  or 
serious  difficulties  on  his  route,  he  must  at  once  tele- 
graph information  of  the  fact  to  the  point  of  his  des- 
tination, and,  if  deemed  necessary,  to  the  point  from 
whence  he  came. 

9.  They  must  be  courteous  and  obliging  to  all  per- 
sons with  whom  they  have  business,  conciliating  their 
good-will,  and  especially  on  stage  routes,  to  the  pas- 
sengers. No  e.vcuse  will  be  taken  from  a  messenger 
ft)r  insulting  or  incommoding  a  stage  passenger. 

10.  Particular  pains  must  be  taken  by  messengers 


WELLS,  FAEGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  49 


to  deliver  letters  promptly  along  their  routes.    They  ^.^'^^^  ""'^ 
must  each  keep  a  supply  of  franks  constantly  on 
hand,  to  furnish  any  person  who  may  want  them  on 
the  route. 

11.  "When,  upon  railroad  lines,  a  separate  car,  or  Special  cars, 
apartment,  is  furnished  for  their  exclusive  use,  mes- 
sengers will  not  allow  any  person  to  ride  therein  ex- 
cept by  consent  of  the  Traveling  Agent. 

12.  When  express  goods  are  carried  in  freight  cars,  JJijIJ^'^,.'" 
and  permission  is  had  to  ride  in  another  part  of  the 

train,  their  condition  must  be  examined  at  every  stop- 
ping-place. 

1-3.  Tariffs  will  be  furnished  by  each  Traveling  Charges. 
Agent.    In  making  charges  on  matter  received  and 
billed  by  messenger,-:,  they  will  charge  same  as  having 
been  sent  from  the  office  just  passed. 

14.  All  weights  on  rcgnlxr  way-bills  carried  by  Weight  reports, 
messengers  must  be  reported,  each  trip,  to  such  office 

as  the  Traveling  Agent  may  designate,  according  to 
the  form  of  blank  freight  report  furnished  for  that 
purpose.  When  the  weight  is  not  given  on  the  way- 
bill, matter  will  be  estimated  as  near  as  possible.  All 
packages  of  twenty  pounds  and  upward  must  be  re- 
ported. 

15.  Messengers  will  make  out  an  abstract,  at  such  in-  Abstracts, 
tervals  of  time  as  the  Traveling  Agent  may  direct,  of 

the  way-bills  issued  by  themselves,  and  will  settle  the 
same  at  such  office  as  he  may  designate. 

16.  Messengers  are  required  to  read  and  follow  the  General  instruc- 
General  Instructions  to  Agents  and  Employes  given 

in  this  book,  and  especially  such  portions  thereof  as 
relate  to  the 


Identificatiox  of  Unknown  Persons. 

(See  Sec.  17,  page  18.) 

Care  in  Handling  Goods. 

(See  Sees.  8",  88,  etc.,  page  25.) 

Responsibility  in  Delivering  to  Proper  Parties. 

(See  Sec.  19,  page  14.) 


50       WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


Drinking  Intoxicatino  Liquors. 

(See  Sec.  5,  page  11.) 

Makisg  and  Numbering  Wav-Bills. 

(See  Sees.  67  to  77  inc.,  pages  21-23.) 

IIow  TO  MAKE  Abstracts. 
(See  Form,  page  39.) 


INSTRUCTIONS  TO  TRAVELING  AGENTS. 


General  duties.  1.  Traveling  Agents  arc  cmploj-cd  by,  and  Subject  to 
tlie  orders  of  the  Manager  at  Salt  Lake  City,  to  whom 
the)'  will  look  for  instructions,  and  will  confer  with 
him  in  regard  to  any  matter  outside  of  the  general  de- 
tail. They  will  also  keep  him  fully  advised  as  to  their 
movements  and  actions. 

2.  It  will  be  the  duty  of  Traveling  Agents  to  visit, 
as  often  as  practicable,  each  office  in  their  respective 
divisions,  for  the  purpose  of  affording  instruction,  giv- 
ing counsel  and  information,  examining  accounts  and 
investigating  the  manner  in  which  the  business  is  con- 
ducted. 

3.  They  are  expected  to  see  that  no  more  persons 
arc  employed  at  an  office,  or  on  any  route,  than  are 
necessary  for  the  prompt  and  economical  transaction 
of  the  business,  and  that  no  person  is  continued  in  the 
employ  whose  private  acts  or  character  tend  to  injure 
the  good  name  of  the  Company. 

4.  In  all  cases  of  incapacity  or  inattention  to  busi- 
ness on  the  part  of  agents  and  emploj-es,  the  Traveling 
Agent  will  confer,  at  once,  with  the  Manager  at  Salt 
Lake  City,  and  be  governed  by  his  instructions,  e.xcept 
in  cases  of  emergency,  when  the  Traveling  Agent  will 
summarily  discharge  such  person,  and  make  temporary 
arrangements  for  the  safe  transaction  of  business  at 
such  point,  until  the  case  is  referred  to,  and  decided 
upon,  by  the  Manager. 

Handling  freight.  5.  They  will  be  particular  to  see  that  freight  is 
handled  carefully  by  the  respective  agents,  messengers, 
and  drivers  in  their  division,  and  where  damage  occurs 


Visiting  offices 
and  examining 
accuunts. 


OITice  employes. 


Authority  over 
euiployis. 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  51 


from  carelessness,  either  collect  the  amount  of  damage 
fi'om  the  employe  causing  said  damage,  or  discharge 
him. 

().  In  authorizing  purchases  of  fixtures,  or  personal  omce  fixtures, 
property,  they  will  make  themselves  acquainted  with 
the  necessity  of  the  same  before  granting  the  authority, 
and  all  vouchers  for  such  expenses  must  be  approved 
by  them  in  writing. 

7.  All  contracts  with  transportation  lines,  with  bank-  Contracts  and 
crs,  or  others,  for  season  contracts  ;  all  offices  opened  "'''^"S''- 

or  discontinued,  agents,  messengers,  or  men  employed 
or  discharged,  and  in  fact,  a  general  report  of  their 
transactions,  must  be  made  to  the  Manager  at  Salt 
Lake  Cit}',  promptly. 

8.  In  opening  new,  or  closing  old  offices,  notice  must  information  reia- 

,       .        .  7  1     ..J    •  tive  to  change  of 

be  given  to  aa  offices  and  messengers  under  iaeir  super-  oOiccs. 
vision,  and  to  Salt  Lake  City  Office,  stating  name  and 
place,  and  tariff  to  same,  or  if  for  closing  an  office, 
state  to  vjhat  point  such  matter  must  be  billed  there- 
after. 

9.  At  points  where  the  company  have  horses  and  Careofiiroperty. 
wagons.  Traveling  Agents  will  make  it  their  particular 

business  to  sec  that  such  property  is  kept  in  good  con- 
dition, and  as  well  and  economically  taken  care  of  as 
possible. 


TARIFF. 


FROM 
OmAHA 

On  Money. 
Per  cent. 

On  Freifrht. 
Per  pound. 

REMARKS. 

To  Albany  - .  .N.  Y 

"  Atlanta  Ga 

'*  Amherst  Ohio 

**   Aflrifln  Hfftrtli 

"  Alton  Til 



"  Baltimore  Md. 

"  Buffalo  N.  Y. 

"  Batavia  N.  Y. 

"  Binghamton   N.  Y. 

"  Burlington  

"  Bellefontaine  Ohio. 

"  Bloomington  111.  | 

"  1 

WELLS,  FARGO  k  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  53 


FROM 
OMAHA 

On  Money, 
Per  cent. 

On  Freight. 
Per  pound. 

REMARKS. 

n 



n 



111  OTT/il  OTI  jH 

n 

Til 

Coucord 

*'  Charleston  

CI  p 

n 

n 



l^o  no  i^ri  11  nrii  <i 



l^UUKllK.  

N  "V 

AT  in  It 

o 



....111. 

....  111. 

....111. 

"  Elmira  

..N.  Y. 

51         AVELLS,  FARGO  4  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


FROM 
OnAHA 

On  Bfoney. 
Per  cent. 

On  Frelpht. 
Per  pound. 

REMARKS. 

To  Erie  Pa. 

"  Elgin    111. 

"  Fort  Wayne  Ind. 

"  Gallon  0. 



"  Galesburg  111. 

"  Galena  111. 

"  Green  Bay  Wis. 

"  Hornellsville  N.  Y. 

"  Hamilton  C.  W. 

"  Independence  Mo. 

WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  55 


FROM 
OinAHA 

On  Money. 
PtT  cent. 

On  Freight. 
Per  pound. 

REMARKS. 

"  Kankakee  111. 

"  Little  Rock  Ark. 

"  Logansport  Ind. 

"  Lawrence  Kan. 

"  Lexington  Ky. 

"  Lexington  Mo. 

"  Meadville  Pa. 

"  Montreal  C.  E. 

58  WKLLS,  KARGO  <t  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


FROM 

On  Freicht. 

REMARKS. 

oyixax 

Per  cent. 

Per  pountL 

.Tenn. 

"JMobile  

...Ala. 

"  Mendota  

....111. 

"  Macon  City  

....Mo. 



"  New- York  

..N.  Y. 

"  Newark  

..N.  J. 

....La. 

....Ct. 

 0. 

.  .Tenn. 



...Neb. 

....Pa. 

"  Pittsburg  

....Pa. 

"  Providence  

...R.  I. 

- 

"  Portland  

....Me. 

"  Prairie  du  Chien.. 

...Wis. 

 111. 

...Neb. 

"  Quebec  

..C.  E. 

111. 

WELLS,  FARGO  <t  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  57 


FROM 
OMAHA 


On  Money. 
Per  cent. 


On  Freight. 
Per  pound. 


REMARKS. 


To  Richmond  Va. 

"  Raleigh  N.  C. 

"  Rochester.  N.  Y. 

"  Reading  Pa. 

"  Rock  Island  III. 

"  Racine  Wis. 

"  Springfield  Mass. 

"  Springfield  111. 

"  Springfield  0. 

"  Springfield  Mo. 

"  Sedalia  Mo. 

"  St.  Joseph  Mo. 

"  Suspension  Bridge.  .N.  Y. 

"  Syracuse  N.  Y. 

"  Savannah  Ga. 

"  Steubenville  0. 

"  St.  Louis  Mo. 

"  St.  Paul  Minn. 

"  Troy  N.  Y. 


"  Toronto  C.  W. 


"  Topeka  Kan. 


58         WELLS,  FARGO  i  CO.'S  OVEKLAND  EXPRESS. 

i 


FROM 

On  Money. 
p€r  Cent* 

On  Freight. 
Per  pound. 

RF.MARES. 

To  Trenton  N.  J. 

"  Toledo.  0. 

"  Utica  N.  Y. 

"  Washington  D.  C. 



"  Warrensburg  Mo. 

"  Weston  Mo. 



 • 



NoTK. — The  above  are  the  rates  of  coanecting  expresses  cast  of  Omaha. 


"WELLS,  FAKGO  k  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  59 


FROM 

On  Money. 
Per  cent. 

On  Freight. 
Per  Pound. 

REMARKS. 

To  Boise  City  Idaho. 

"  Cheyenne  Dak. 

"  Central  City  Col. 



"  Denver  Col. 

CO  WELLS,  FAKGO  <t  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


FROM 

On  Money. 
Per  cent 

On  Freight 
Per  pound. 

REMARKS. 

To  Empire  City   .Col. 

 -m  

"  Fort  Bridger  Utah 

WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  61 


FROM 

On  Money. 
Per  cent. 

On  Freight. 
Per  pound. 

REMARKS. 

To  Helena  

.  .Mon 

Col 

..Neb 

62  WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


PROM 

On  Money. 
Per  cent. 

On  Freight. 
Per  pound. 

REMARKS. 

To  North  Platte  Neb. 

"  Ogden  Utah. 

"  Salt  Lake  City  Utah. 

"WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  63 


FKOM 

On  Money, 
Per  cent. 

On  Freight. 
Per  pound. 

nEMARKS. 

1 
1 

WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


FUOM 

On  Money. 

On  Freight, 
j     Per  Pound. 

n  El  Jil  A  H IV  o. 

To 

It 

 _ 

(I 

tt 



(( 

tt 

(( 

a 

t( 

(( 



t( 

It 

fi4 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


FROM 

On  Money. 
Per  cent. 

On  Freight. 
Per  Pound. 

REMARKS. 

To 

11 

" 

(1 

i( 

u 

(I 

it 

(( 

65 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO/S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


FKOH  1 

On  Money. 
1    I'cr  cent. 

On  Freight. 
Per  Pound. 

REMARKS. 

To 



ti 

(I 

l( 



66 


1 


■\VELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


On  Money. 
Per  cent. 


To 


On  Freight. 
Per  Pound. 


i; 


it 


67 


WELLS,  FARGO  <&  CO.'s  OVEELAND  EXPRESS. 


FROM 

On  Money. 

On  FrelRlit 
Per  Pound. 

REMARKS. 

To 

" 

" 

WELLS,  FARGO  <t  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


FROM 

On  Money.        On  Freight. 
Per  cent,     j     Per  PouaJ. 

REMARKS. 

To 

u 

a 

u 

a 

u 

u 

a 

a 





u 



69 


70  WELLS,  FAHGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


FROM 

SALT  LAKE  CITY. 

On  Money. 
Per  cent 

On  Freight 
Per  pound. 

REMARKa 

2 

35 

H 

55 

H 

53 

2t 

1  40 

\ 

"  Chico  Cal. 

3} 

1  62 

"Colfax   " 

3 

60 

"  Cisco   " 

3 

50 

"  Dayton  Nev. 

3 

50 

"  Dutch  Flat  Cal. 

3 



50 

"  Downieville   " 

3f 

65 

H 

60 

3 

50 

"  Folsom   " 

3 

50 

"  Fort  Yuma   " 

f. 

90 

"  Grass  Vallev   " 

H 

57 

"  Gold  Hill  Nev. 

2i 

40 

4i 

55 

2} 

45 

"  Honolulu  S.  I. 

4 

53 

4 

55 

55 

WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  71 


FROM 

SAI.T  liAKE  CITY. 

On  Money. 
Per  cent. 

On  Freight. 
Per  pound. 

REMARKS. 

3i- 

55 

"  Mazatlan  Mex. 

55 

3| 

53 

3 

50 
75 

3i 

H 

52 

"  Stockton   " 

3i 

52 

3 

50 

"  San'.Francisco   " 

3 

50 

41 



58 

"  San  Luis  Obispo   " 

4 

65 

"  Victoria  V.  I. 

4 

53 

40 

Note.— The  above  points  from  Salt  Lake  City,  are  all  within  the  lines  of  the  California 
and  Oregon  Express,  and  charges  arc,  in  all  cases,  in  gold  coin. 

In  receiving  packages  for  the  above,  as  well  as  for  all  other  points  on  this  line,  agents 
must  require  prepayment  of  charges  to  destination,  except  on  money  packages.  On  prepaid 
charges  agents  may  collect  in  currency  enough  to  purchase  requisite  amount  of  gold. — See 
"  California  and  Oregon  Express,"  p.  21. 


CO 
hi 
\- 
< 

I 

o 

D 

o 

X 
H 

u. 
O 

li. 

< 


Q- 

o 


O 

iz; 
w 
Pi 

o 


o 


« 

o  > 

^  . 

>  P 

0  § 

«  *^ 

U  J) 
0 

M  S 

o  > 


:  CO  2 
s  °  ° 

•  *^  if 

s  w 

> 
^  o 


u 


M  — 


IS 

n 
< 

K 
O 

o 

Eh 
O 

a 

« i 
o  i 

w  I 
W  I 

s 

Eh  ? 
O  ? 

«  i 

S  8 
C:  tn 

O  2 

I 

P  £ 
«1 

►J  -5, 

O  .= 

» 

OS  •> 


=  2  5 
c  5 

—  3 

111 

C  C  (9 

B,    *  ^ 


. = s. 

■e  f-a 
■J  y  .-3 

it'' 


>  e  =  -.2 


a-: 

OQ  3 


-fl"  05  «  O 


Sir 


a 

*  C  13  O 


£  =  c  £-=  at 

J  J  =  s  g 
c  :  ;  T-  S  6«  -  E 


hj  e  ^ 
w  — 

"<)  2  S 

Ph  i  a  i 
<1 

Hi  |2| 

ill 

=  a  a  . 
«^  9  J! 

- 

•5  o  |i  t> 
•5  ill 


c  t-o  o 


55 


0« 


H  ^  I 


Is- 

c  S  ■a 

—  e  — " 

tc  £  o 

Wag' 
«|2 


2 

I  s 


a  '3 
a  i 
8  § 


C  QJ  C 

c  "  S 


g  I3 


*^    ?!  " 


o  c  o 
0—0 


«.5  o 

J--UI 
■"WO 


is 


5  g 


O  i 

of 
hi 
.J 
W 


'  .0  uu 

sS5 


-,_|<.2I  ^r: 

^  3  m  C  60  ® 

s  -  ° 

a  c  ^'  a)  5i  ^ 
o  3  uj  !H  —  .i  3 

■2  "Sri s 

c  jp  £  g  J  „ 

o  a  a  >■ 
&    S  5^ 


3  u 

p4 


N  OUI 
o  1-0 

?  •5 


zg<g 

•3    ,  g 

OC  a.3  2 


.s  =-0 
■|Sui 

3  tiOlk 


2©  cat 


7ij       WELLS,  FAEGO  A  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


TABLES  OF  DISTANCES. 


From  Omaha  to  Salt  Lake  City,  via  Cheyenne. 


*OMAHA  to  •CHE- 
YENNE (bv  Union 
P.  R.  R.).". 

Spotswood's  Springs 

Round  Buttcs. 
*OVERLAXD  PARK 

Stonewall  

Virginia,  Dale  

Willow  Springs. . . . 

ISiij  Laramie  

Little  Laramie  

Seven  Miles  Creek. 
*('ooper''»  Creek  

Rock  Creek  

Wagon  Hound .... 

Medicine  Bow  

*Elk  Mountain  

Pass  Creek  !  12 

*NORTH-FORK.., 

Ingman's  

Sage  Creek  

Pine  Grove  

Bridger's  Pass  ... 

*Sul]ihur  Springs. 

Wash-a-kee  

Duck  Lake  


MiLB.  1 

516 

516 

11 

527  1 

10 

537  ' 

10 

547  1 

9 

556  1 

12 

568 

U 

582  , 

15 

597  ; 

14 

611  i 

9 

620  ' 

9 

629  1 

11 

640  1 

10 

650 

7 

657 

8 

665 

12 

677 

15 

692 

8 

700  ] 

10 

710  L 

10 

720 

10 

730 

739 

11 

750 

13 

763  i 

12 

775 

*La  Clede  

16 

791 

12 

803 

Black  Buttes  

14 

817 

*  Point  of  L'ockt  

14 

831 

Salt  Wells  

13 

844 

15 

859 

*GREEN  RIVER.... 

17 

876 

14 

890 

9 

899 

South  Bend  

9 

908 

Church  Buttcs  

12 

920 

8 

928 

13 

041 

12 

963 

10 

963 

10 

973 

Yellow  Creek  

10 

983 

Head  of  Echo  

10 

993 

10 

1003 

10 

1013 

Cottonwood  

11 

1024 

10 

1034 

10 

1044 

9 

1053 

Centerville  

8 

1061 

♦SALT  LAKE  CITY 

12 

1078 

NoTC— CmplUlt,  Tennlniu  of  DlTblon.  Italics,  Home  Station.   *  Telegraph  SlatloD. 


WELLS,  FAPvGO  k  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  77 


From  Salt  Lake  City  to  Omaha,  via  Cheyenne. 


Miles. 

*SALT  LAKE  CITY. 

0 

0 

12 

12 

8 

20 

9 

29 

10 

39 

10 

49 

11 

60 

10 

70 

10 

80 

10 

90 

10 

100 

10 

110 

10 

120 

12 

132 

13 

14.5 

8 

153 

12 

165 

9 

174 

9 

183 

*GREEN  RIVER.... 

14 

197 

17 

214 

Salt  Wells  

15 

229 

*Foint  of  Rochs  

13 

242 

14 

256 

14 

270 

12 

282 

Miles. 


16 

298 

12 

310 

AVn.sh-a.-lvee  • 

13 

323 

^SulpIillT  SpTVi^S,  .  .  . 

11 

334 

9 

343 

Pine  GrovG          . . 

10 

353 

SagG  Crcclc  •  •  •  

10 

363 

10 

373 

♦NORTH  FORK  

8 

381 

15 

396 

*JSlk  Mountain  

12 

408 

8 

416 

Wagon  Hound  

7 

423 

10 

433 

11 

444 

Seven  Miles  Creek . . 

9 

453 

Little  Laramie  

9 

462 

14 

476 

15 

491 

14 

505 

12 

517 

*OVERLAND  PARK 

9 

526 

Round  Buttes  

10 

536 

Spotswood's  Springs 

10 

546 

*CHEYENNE  

11 

557 

*OMAHA,  by  U.  P.  RR.  ... 

516 

1073 

From  Denver  to  Salt  Lake  City. 


♦DENVER  toChurch's 

Boulder  

Burlington  

Little  Thompson. . . . 
Big  Thompson  


Miles. 

11 

11 

11 

22 

11 

33 

10 

43 

10 

53 

Spring  Cafion  

Laporte  

♦OVERLAND  PARK 

(Junction)  

♦Salt  Lake  City  


10 

63 

8 

71 

9 

80 

526 

606 

Note.— Capitals,  Terminus  of  Divisions.   Italics,  Home  Station.    *  Telegraph  Station. 


18       WELLS,  FABGO  &  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESa 


From  Salt  Lake  City  to  Denver. 


*From  SALT  LAKE 
CITY  to  *OVER- 
LAND  PARK 
(June,  with  Che- 
yenne Route)  

Laporte  

Spring  Cafion  


Miles. 

626 

9 

535 

8 

543 

MiLis. 


Bip;  Thompson  i  10  |  553 

Little  Thompson  .. .   10  |  563 

Burlington  ]  10  1  573 

Boulder   11  L  584 

Church's  '  11  595 

♦DENVER  !  11  606 


From  Denver  to  Central  City,  Col.  * 


Miles. 

Miles. 

♦DENVER  

0  0 

^[ichigan  House. . . . 

30 

*Golden  City  

12  1  12 

♦CENTRAL  CITY.. 

8  1  38 

Guv  Hill  

9  '  21 

From  Central  City  to  Georgetotvn,  Col. 


♦CENTRAL  City. 
Idaho  City,  Col. . 
GEORGETOWN 


6 
12 


6 
18 


From  CJieyenne  to  Denver,  Col. 


"CHEYENNE  

Spotswood's  Springs 

Round  Buttes  

♦OVERLAND  PARK 

Laporte  

Spring  Cafion  


Miles. 

Miles. 

0 

0 

Big  Thompson  

10 

68 

11 

11 

Little  Thompson. . . . 

10 

68 

10 

21 

10 

78 

10 

31 

11 

89 

!) 

40 

11 

100 

8 

48 

■  ♦DENVER  

11 

111 

Note.— Capitals,  Terminus  of  Division.   Italics,  nome  Station.    •  Telegraph  Btatlon. 


WKLLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  79 


From  Salt  LaJce  City  to  Virginia,  Nev. 


*SALT  LAKE  CTTY 

Point  of  West  M'tn. 

Young's  

Stocl'ton  

Center  

*Rush  Valley  

Point  Lookout  

Simpson^s  Spi'ings. . . 

River  Bed  

Dug-AV^ay  

Black  Rock  

*Fish  Springs  

Boyd's  

Willow  Springs  

Canon   

*Deep  Creek  

Eiglit  Miles  

Antelope  Springs. . . 

Spring  Valley  

*SCHELL  CREEK. . 

Egan  Cation  

Butte  

Mountain  Springs  . . 


0 
14 
26 
40 
48 
00 
09 
80 
04 
106 
120 
130 
140 
150 
101 
176 
184 
203 
215 
220 
240 
255 
269 


*Ruby  Valley  

Jacob's  Wells  

Diamond  Springs. 

Sulphur  Springs. . 

Robert's  Creek. . . 
*  GruWs  Wells. . . . 

Dry  Creek  

Cape  Horn  

♦AUSTIN  

Reese  River  

Mount  Airy  

New  Pass  

Edward's  Creek . . 

Cold  Springs  

*West  Gate  

Fairview  

Mountain  Wells.. 

Stillwater  

Old  River  

Cottonwood  

Nevada  

Desert  Wells  

♦VIRGINIA  


From  Virginia,  Nei\,  to  Salt  Lake  City, 


♦VIRGINIA  

Desert  Wells  

Nevada  

Cottonwood  

Old  River  

Stillwater  

Mountain  Wells  . . . . 

Fairview  

nVcstGate  


Milks. 


0 

14 
29 
44 
59 
74 
89 
103 
114 


Cold  Springs  

Edward's  Creek. . . 

New  Pass  

Mount  Airy  

Reese  River  

♦AUSTIN  

Cape  Horn  

Dry  Creek  

*OruhVs  Wells  


Note. — Capitals,  Terminus  of  Division.   Italics,  Home  Station.    *  Telegraph  Station. 


80        WELLS,  FARGO  <fc  CO.'s  OVERLAND  EXPRESS. 


Virginia,  Net.,  to  Salt  Lake  City — Continued. 


Robert's  Creek  

Sulphur  Springs  

Diamond  Spring).. . 

Jacob's  Wells  

*Ruby  Valley  

Motintain  Springs.. 

Butte  

Egan  Canon  

*SCHELL  CREEK.. 

Spring  Valley  

Antelope  Springs. . . 

Eig'nt-Milcs  

•*Deep  Creek  

Canon   


MlLIS. 

Miles. 

13 

244 

V\'  ill  AW  Snrinnrfl 
11  IllVW  OUllIIgS*  •  ■  ■  ■ 

11 

422 

13 

257  1 

10 

432 

12 

269  ; 

10 

442 

12 

281 

Black  Rock  

10 

452 

13 

294 

Dug-AVay  

14 

466 

9 

303 

12 

478 

14 

317 

Simpsorts  Spring). . . 

8 

486 

15 

332 

Point  Lookout  

17 

503 

14 

346 

*Rush  Valley  

9 

512 

11 

357 

12 

524 

13 

Q70 

8 

532 

18 

388 

Young's  

14 

646 

8 

396  , 

Point  of  AVe-stM'nt'n 

12 

558 

15 

411  i 

*SALT  LAKE  CITY 

14 

572 

From  Virginia,  Nev.,  to  Sacrame^o, 


Cal. 


PUCBBTILLK  OR  LAKS 

Tahob  Roctb. 

IIILES. 

0 

0 

♦Silver  City  

6 

5 

11 

16 

16 

32 

9 

41 

10 

51 

12 

63 

11 

74 

10 

84 

♦Sportsman's  IlaU... 

10 

94 

12 

106 

rSliingle  Springs. 

10 

116 

10 

120 

16 

142 

l*SACRAMENTO 

22 

164  j 

Dosser  Laee  axo  Dutch 
Flat  KocTk. 


Sftrmmenlo  to  S.  F'ciMo,  v\\  Sacramento  BiT..  12/1 
Total  Distance  Salt  Lake  Ciljr  to  Sacramento. 

Salt  Lake  City  to  San  Fr'isco...  854 


*  Virginia  City  

Arnold's  .' . 

Huffaker's  

Hunter's  

Crystal  Peak  

Chamberlain's  

Prosser  Creek  

Banner  Lake  

Jones'  

♦Cisco  

♦Alta  

♦Dutch  Flat  

Gold  Run  

-  ♦Colfax  

'  ♦Auburn   

New  Castle  

Junction  

L^SACRAMENTO, 


0 
9 
14 
23 
30 
41 
49 
59 
68 
76 
99 
101 
103 
114 
132 
137 
150 
168 


Note.— Capitals,  Terminus  of  DitUIod.   Italics,  Home  SUtioD.   *  Telegraph  SUUon. 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  81 


From  Austin  to  Belmont,  Nev.,  87  Miles. 


Miles. 

♦AUSTIN  

0 

14 

14  1 

16 

30 

Sod  House  

13 

43 

Mlt.E3. 


BOB  LOGAN'S 

14 

57 

10 

67 

13 

79 

BELMONT  

8 

87 

Snlt  Lalce  City  to  Virginia  and  Helena,  Montana. 


SALT  LAKE  CITY. 

Centerville  

Kay's  Ward  

*Offdcn  

Big  Dam  

Brigham  City  

Mormon  City  

♦BEAR  RIVER 
(Junction  with 
Boise  Road)  

Mound  Springs  

Henderson  Creek. . . 
*Malad  City  

Devil's  Creek  

Marsh  Valley  

*  Caiyenter' s  

Robbers'  Roost  

Black  Rock  

Pocatello  

Bosh  Fork  

Black  Foot  

Yampatch  

Cedar  Point  

*TAYLOR'S  BRIDGE 

Eagle  Rock  


Miles. 

Miles. 

0 

0 

10 

257 

12 

12 

18 

275 

12 

24 

Karaas  Creek  

12 

287 

15 

39 

Hole  in  the  Rock. . . 

8 

295 

11 

50 

14 

309 

11 

61 

j  *  Pleasant  Valley.... 

13 

321 

10 

71 

9 

330 

\7iinction  

10 

340 

Sage  Creek   

12 

353 

13 

84 

Toll  Gate,  No.  2.... 

13 

364 

12 

96 

Black-Tail  Deer. . . . 

8 

372 

11 

107 

14 

386 

9 

116 

12 

398 

10 

126 

12 

410 

9 

135 

♦VIRGINIA  

12 

422 

14 

149 

California  Ranch. . . . 

12 

434 

12 

161 

12 

446 

13 

174 

Spring  Creek  

12 

458 

10 

184 

Jefferson  Bridge. .  .  . 

14 

473 

12 

196 

White-Tail  Deer  

15 

487 

12 

208 

15 

502 

11 

219 

11 

513 

9 

228 

Beavertown  

11 

524 

10 

238 

12 

536 

9 

247 

HELENA   

10 

546 

Note.— Capitals,  Terminus  of  Division.  Italics,  Home  Station.  *  Telegrapli  Station, 
t  Junction  with  Bannacli  and  Salmon  River  Roads. 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.  S  OVERLAND  EXPKES3. 


From  Helena  to  Fort  Kenton,  140  Miles. 


HELENA   

Toll  date  

Kennedy's  

Dearborn  

Bird- Tail  Rod-  [  15 


Miles. 

Miua. 

0 

0 

! 

16 

84 

25 

25 

Leaving  Sub  River. . 

8 

92 

12 

37 

20 

112 

Ifi 

53 

16 

128 

15 

68 

FORT  BENTON... 

12 

140 

From  Fort  Benton,  Mon.,  to  Helena,  Man. 


FORT  BENTON. 


Leaving  Sun  River . . 


Miles. 

t 

HUJB. 

0 

•  0  ' 

Bird-Tail  liocl 

16 

72 

12 

12 

15 

87 

16 

28 

Kennedy's  

16 

103 

20 

48 

,    Toll  Gate  

12 

115 

8 

66 

1  HELENA  

25 

140 

From  Helena  and  Virginia,  Mon.,  to  Salt  Lake  City. 


Wh  ite-  Ta  il  Deer. . . .  1 
JefTer.son  Bridge. ... 

Spring  Creek  

Indian  Creek  

California  Ranch. . . .  | 

♦VIRGINIA  I 

Stinking  Water  


Bind- Toil  Beer. . .. 
Toll  Gate  No.  2  


*Phamnt  Valley.... 

Dry  Creek  

Hole  in  the  Rock. . . 


0 

1 

0  ! 

10 

299 

10 

10 

♦TAYLOR'S  BRIDGE 

9 

308 

12 

■  22  1 

10 

318 

11 

33  I 

9 

327 

11 

44 

11 

-3.38 

15 

59 

iJsM  Fork  

12 

350 

15 

74 

12 

302 

14 

88  1 

Black  Rock .  

10 

372 

12 

100 

Robbers'  Roost. .... 

13 

385 

12 

112 

12 

397 

12 

124 

Marsh  Valley  

14 

411 

12 

130 

9 

420 

12 

148 

*Mahtd  Cili/  

10 

430 

12 

160 

Henderson  Creek. . . 

9 

439 

14 

174  ' 

11 

450 

8 

182 

*BE  AR  RIVER  (June. 

12 

194 

with  Boise  Road). 

12 

462 

12 

206 

Mormon  City  

13 

475 

10 

216 

Brigham  City  

10 

485 

9 

225 

11 

496 

12 

237 

*Oyden  

11 

607 

14 

251 

15 

622 

8 

259 

12 

634 

1.2 

271 

*SALT  LAKE  CITY 

12 

646 

18 

2S9 

KoTE. — Capitals,  Terminus  of  Division.  Italics,  ITome  Station.  *  Telegraph  Station, 
t  Junction  wltli  Bannack  and  Salmon  River  Roads. 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO.'S  OVERLAND  EXPRESS.  83 


Salt  Lalce  City  to  BannacTc  City,  369  Mites. 

Salt  Lake  City  to  Junction   340  miles. 

Junction  to  Argenta   14  " 

Argenta  to  Bannack   15  " 


SannacJc  City  to  Salmon  Jtiver,  75  Miles. 


Salt  Lake  City  to  JBoise  City,  Idaho. 


*SALT  LAKE  CITY 
to  *BEAR  RIVER 

Point  Look-out  

Blue  Springs  

Hansel  Springs  

Curlew  

Pilot  Springs  

Clear  Water  

Raft  River  

CITY  OF  ROCKS.. 

Birch  Creek  

Oakley  

Moun  tain  Meadotcs. 


Miles. 


84 

9 

93 

17 

110 

12 

122 

12 

134 

10 

144 

12 

156 

13 

1G9 

12 

181 

12 

193 

10 

203 

16 

219 

Rock  Creek. .  . . 

Desert  

Overland  Ferry 
Malad  Station. 
Clover  Springs. 

King  Hill  

Cold  Springs. . . 
Warm  Springs. 
Canon  Creek . . . 

Potter's  

Indian  Creek. . . 

Easely  

BOISE  CITY. . 


From  Boise  City,  Idaho,  to  Salt  Lake  City. 


Miles. 

BOISE  CITY  

0 

0 

Easely  

12 

12 

Indian  Creek  

10 

22 

11 

33 

10 

43 

AVarm  Springs  

17 

60 

9 

69 

14 

83 

15 

98 

17 

115 

Overland  Ferry  

18 

133 

12 

145 

15 

160 

Miles. 


Mountain  Meadows. 

14 

174 

16 

190 

10 

200 

CITY  OF  ROCKS.. 

12 

212 

12 

224 

13 

237 

12 

249 

10 

259 

12 

271 

12 

283 

Point  Look-out  

17 

300 

*BEAR  RIVER 

9 

309 

*SALT  LAKE  CITY. 

84 

393 

•  Note.— Capitals,  Terminus  of  Division.   Italics,  Home  Station.   *  Telegraph  Station. 


