James  Heron, 

Secretary,  San  Francisco. 


J^^L.  hu^A. ^IcTtLui 
(Tfctfc  ltd.  fi^Lt  <-L^z  ^ — 


St       □  2007  12S52S14  2  t 

California  State  Library  / 


\    Accessions  No.JLQflQfii^   Received  

\     ciass  e  3  1s;  j  W4S^ 

|  Donated  byV.ells,  Far^o  ft  ronpawy 

I 

i>  


i 


44786    4.26    SM  '         •——-•"—»-.  — 


■i 


1552. 


OR  THE  USE  OF  AGENTS  AND  EMPLOYES  ONLY. 


SAN   FRANCISCO  : 

H.  S.  CROCKER  &  CO.,  PRINTERS. 
1882. 


.08064 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  COMPANY 


Capital,  -  $6,250,000. 


Directors : 

Lloyd  Tevis,  San  Francisco.  Oliver  Eldridge,  San  Francisco. 
Leland  Stanford,        "  Geo.  E.  Gray,  " 

Charles  Crocker,        "  A.  H.  Barney,       New  York. 

C.  F.  Crocker,  "  J.  C.  Fargo, 

B.  P.  Cheney,  Boston. 

President, 

LLOYD  TEVIS,  San  Francisco. 

Vice-President, 


Secretary, 

JAMES  HERON,  San  Francisco. 

Assistant  Secretary, 

H.  B.  PARSONS,  New  York. 

Treasurer, 

H.  WADSWORTH,  San  Francisco. 


General  Superintendent, 

JNO.  J.  VALENTINE,  San  Francisco. 


To  Agents  and  Employes  : 

The  business  of  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.'s  Express  is  to  forward,  by 
rapid  conveyance,  merchandise,  packages,  parcels,  jewelry,  gold, 
silver,  bank  notes,  bonds,  valuable  papers,  etc.,  and  to  deliver  the 
same  promptly ;  to  make  collections,  with  or  without  goods ;  to  fill 
orders,  attend  to  commissions,  and  to  carry  and  deliver  letters. 

The  Company's  lines  extend  over  railroad,  stage  and  steamer 
routes  throughout  the  States  and  Territories  west  of  the  Missouri 
River ;  (connections  are  made  at  eastern  termini  with  responsible  Ex- 
press Companies  for  all  points  in  the  United  States  and  Canada ;) 
and  by  steamships  from  San  Francisco  to  all  Pacific  Coast  ports;  and 
from  New  York  to  Liverpool,  London,  Havre,  Paris  and  Hamburg. 

The  within  Instructions  have  been  carefully  revised  and  classified, 
and  agents  and  employes  are  required  to  familiarize  themselves  with 
the  same,  as  they  will  be  held  responsible  for  mistakes  occasioned 
by  neglecting  to  consult  and  obey  them. 

J  NO.  J.  VALENTINE, 

General  Superintendent. 


San  Francisco,  January,  1S82. 


J 


CONTENTS. 


Page. 

Explanation  of  Express  Terms  and  Abbreviations   9 

Causes  of  Loss  and  Dissatisfaction   10 

General  Instructions   n 

Personal  Conduct   1 1 

Authority  of  Agents   1 1 

Office  Rules  -   " 

Business  Confidential     >2 

Questionable  Business     12 

Mining  Stocks   >2 

Transfer  of  Offices   12 

Suits  at  Law   13 

Handling  Freight   13 

Receiving  and  Forwarding  Goods   14 

Forwarding  Receipts   14 

Packing  and  Marking  Freight   14 

Worthless,  Fragile,  or  Perishable  Goods   15 

Receiving  and  Delivering  Goods   17 

Checking  Way-Bills   17 

Short  and  Over   17 

Freight  Delivery  Receipts   18 

Claims  for  Damages   19 

Money  Packages   20 

Receiving  and  Forwarding   20 

Example  for  Sealing  Bag  of  Money  [Diagram)   20 

Example  for  Sealing  a  Money  Envelope  [Diagram)   21 

Receipt  and  Delivery  of  Money  and  Valuables   22 

Money  in  Bad  Order   23 

Telegraphic  Transfers  and  Reports   23 

Charges   24 

Form  of  Physician's  Certificate   25 

Adding  and  Offing  Charges   26 


Contents. 


Page. 

Way-Bills   27 

Form  of  a  Freight  Way-Bill   28 

Form  of  a  Money  Way-Bill   29 

Form  of  a  Messenger's  Way-Bill   3' 

Collections   32 

C.  O.  D.'s   34 

Transfer  of  Collections  and  C.  O.  D.'s   35 

Purchases  and  Commissions   36 

Letters   37 

Settling  with  General  Office    38 

Abstracts   38 

Form  of  an  Abstract   39 

Statements     4° 

Form  of  a  Statement   4' 

Vouchers   42 

Stationery  and  Supplies   43 

Office  Outfit   43 

Messenger's  Outfit   44 

Correspondence   45 

Telegraphing   45 

Reports   *6 

Robberies   47 

Special  Officers   47 

Guard  Service  and  Fire-arms   47 

Division  Superintendents   4» 

Route  Agents   49 

Messengers   5° 

Drivers   55 


explanation 


or 


EXPRESS  TERMS  AND  ABBREVIATIONS. 


Abst  Abstract. 

Acct  Account. 

Adv.  Chgs.  . .  .Advanced  Charges. 

Agd  Agreed. 

Agt  Agent. 

Bbl  Barrel. 

Bdl  Bundle. 

Billing  Way-Billing. 

Billing  Office,  .The  Office  Way-Billing. 

B.  O  Bad  Order. 

Bx  Box. 

Bg  Bag. 

B.  Bag  Black  Bag. 

B/L  Bill  of  Lading. 

Bds  Bonds. 

B.  Bx  Band  Box. 

Bskt  Basket. 

Bill  Way-Bill. 

Ck  Check. 

Ctf  Certificate. 

Cstg  Casting. 

C.  X  Connecting  Express. 

C.  O.  D  Collect  on.  Delivery. 

Colin  Collection. 

cPtBfg.:::}CarPet  Re- 
coil  Collect. 

Cig.  Bx  Cigar  Box, 

Com1.1.  Commission. 

Chgs  Charges. 

Cy  Currency. 

Cont  Contract. 

Deld  Delivered. 

Dely  Delivery. 

D.  H  Dead  Head  (Free). 

Doc  Document. 

Dft  Draft. 

Env  Envelope. 

Ex  Expense. 

Furn  Furniture. 

Frt  Freight. 

F  C  1 

Fd  Com"      f  Filled  Commission. 
Gtd  Guaranteed. 

G/Dust'.'.'.'.'}GoId  Dust- 

G/Bar  Gold  Bar. 

G/Coin  Gold  Coin. 

H.  Horse  ....  Hobbv  Horse. 

Hd  Bag  Hand'  Bag. 

Ins  Insurance. 


Insd  Insured. 

Lett  Letter. 

L/C  Landing  Certificate. 

Mess  Messenger. 

Mem  Memorandum. 

M.  P  Make  Price. 

M.  T  Empty. 

No  Number. 

O/R  Owner's  Risk. 

O.  H  Old  Horse. 

Old  Horse. . .  .Packages  on  Hand. 

pkg.'::.'.'::}Packaee- 

Pel  Parcel. 

Pd  Paid. 

P.  Bx  Paper  Box. 

Pd.  Coll'.'.  Paid  Collection. 

Pd.  C.  O.  D.  .Paid  C.  O.  D. 

P.  O.  R  Pay  on  Return. 

Pap.  Cont ....  Paper  Contract. 

P.  P  Paper  Package. 

P.  P.  W/B  .  .  .  Package  and  Parcel 

[Way-Bill. 
P.  P.  Trk  ....  Package  and  Parcel 

Reg  Regular.  [Trunk. 

Retd  Returned. 

Retd.  Colin. .  .Returned  Collection 

(Unpaid). 

Retd  C.O.D.. Returned  COD. 

(Unpaid). 

Retd.  Com?.  .  .Returned  Commission 
(Unfilled). 

Reed  Received. 

Rck  Rack. 

Sid  Sealed. 

Sil.  Bui  Silver  Bullion. 

Sew.'Mach.'.}SewinSM;lchine- 
St.  or  Stat ....  Statement. 

Sig  Signature. 

S/R  Shipping  Receipt. 

S/C  Special  or  Season  Con- 

Spl  Special  Rate.  [tract. 

Sil  Silver. 

Thro  Through. 

Trk  Trunk. 

T/T  Telegraphic  Transfer. 

V.  or  Val  Value. 

W/B  Way-Bill. 

W/Bg  Way-Billing. 

W/Bd  Way-Billed. 

X  Express. 


Causes  of  Coss  antr  dissatisfaction. 


The  Express  Business  is  eminently  one  of  detail,  and  re- 
quires system,  accuracy,  watchfulness,  urbanity,  and,  above  all, 
that  the  business  of  to-day  be  done"  before  to-morrow. 

Among  the  prolific  sources  of  loss  to  the  Company  are  : 

Goods  improperly  packed. 
Goods  improperly  marked. 
Carelessness  in  handling. 

Receiving  goods  of  little  valu;  without  pre-payment  or  guarantee. 

Neglecting  to  give  receipts. 

Carelessness  in  giving  receipts. 

Improper  way-billing. 

Lack  of  uniformity  in  charges. 

Neglecting  to  check  way-bills  carefully. 

Neglecting  to  send  tracers  when  goods  are  short. 

Want  of  courtesy  and  attention  to  customers. 

Carelessness  in  the  safe  keeping  of  money  and  valuables. 

Failing  to  promptly  report  to  Superintendent  claims  for  loss  or  damage. 

Neglecting  to  send  Post  Office  notices  to  consignees  who  cannot  be  found. 

Neglecting  to  notify  shippers  of  C.O.D.  goods  the  reasons  for  non-delivery. 

Permitting  C.O.D.  goods  to  be  delivered  or  opened  before  payment  of  bill. 

Loss  or  misplacement  of  keys  to  trunks,  safes  or  treasure  boxes. 

Neglecting  to  take  receipts  for  matter  delivered. 

Neglecting  to  keep  watch  of  money  rnd  valuables  in  transit. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express.  1 1 


GENERAL  INSTRUCTIONS. 


Personal  Conduct. 

1.  The  personal  conduct  and  deportment  of  employes  must  be 
such  as  to  reflect  no  discredit  on  themselves  or  the  Company. 

2.  Misconduct  on  the  part  of  an  employ^,  coming  under  the 
notice  of  another,  must  be  reported  to  the  General  or  Division 
Superintendent,  Route  Agent,  or  Agent. 

3.  Employe's  must  be  uniformly  civil  to  customers,  and  answer 
all  proper  questions  relating  to  the  business  of  the  Company,  as  far 
as  possible,  in  a  satisfactory  manner. 

Authority  of  Agents. 

4.  Clerks,  drivers,  or  other  employe's,  are  subject  to  the  agent  at 
the  office  where  employed,  or  where  their  duties  require  them  to  be. 

5.  For  good  cause,  agents  may  suspend  employe's  from  duty, 
reporting  the  facts  to  the  General  or  Division  Superintendent. 

6.  Messengers  must  not  be  sent  off  their  regular  routes  by 
agents,  except  for  good  reasons,  which  must  be  reported  to  the 
Division  Superintendent. 

7.  While  messengers  are  absent  from  cars  or  coaches,  for  meals, 
etc.,  at  a  station,  the  agent  must  remain  with  the  car  or  coach,  or 
substitute  a  suitable  person. 

8.  Agents  exclusively  employed  by  the  Company  must  never 
absent  themselves  without  permission  from  the  General  or  Division 
Superintendent. 

Office  Rules. 

9.  An  office  must  never  be  left  unattended. 

10.  Books,  way-bills,  etc.,  are  not  for  public  inspection. 

11.  No  persons,  except  employe's,  must  be  allowed  behind 
counters. 

12.  Safes,  treasure  boxes  and  keys,  in  offices  or  elsewhere,  must 
be  kept  securely,  and  inaccessible  to  the  public. 

13.  A  money  run,  or  the  contents  of  a  treasure  box,  must  never 
be  checked  in  public. 


12  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


14.  Agents  having  no  safe  will  keep  money  or  other  valuable 
packages  as  securely  as  possible  during  the  day,  and  take  them  to 
their  dwellings  at  night. 

15.  Books  and  papers  belonging  to  the  Company,  or  relating  to 
its  business,  must  be  carefully  preserved. 

16.  Agents  must  fill  out  the  stubs  of  "Receipt,"  "Tracer,"  or 
other  books  having  stubs. 

17.  The  lock  of  a  safe  or  treasure  box  must  always  be  tried  after 
the  key  is  withdrawn. 

18.  Losing  a  key,  or  forwarding  a  treasure  box  unlocked,  will  not 
be  excused. 

19.  In  cases  of  loss  or  damage  occasioned  by  negligence,  the 
person  at  fault  will  be  held  responsible  for  such  proportion  of  the 
loss  as  the  Superintendent  may  determine. 

20.  Care  must  be  taken  that  the  Company's  property  is  not 
abused  or  damaged  by  neglect. 

21.  Agents  must  not  advance  money  to  employes  from  the  Com- 
pany's funds,  nor  permit  "  Expense  "  letters  for  personal  account. 

Business  Confidential. 

22.  The  business  of  the  Company  and  the  transactions  of  its 
customers  must  be  strictly  confidential. 

23.  Information  concerning  the  amount  of  money  received  or  for- 
warded, or  in  relation  to  other  business  of  the  Company,  must  not 
be  given  to  any  one. 

Questionable  Business. 

24.  Any  service,  other  than  the  authorized  business  of  the  Com- 
pany, must  be  declined,  and  the  Company  must  not  be  used  for 
questionable  purposes. 

Mining  Stocks. 

25.  Agents  and  employe's  must  not  undertake  to  execute  in  the 
name  of  the  Company  any  order  for  the  purchase,  sale  or  custody 
of  Mining  or  other  Stocks,  unless  specially  authorized.  Persons  de- 
siring to  transact  such  business  can  communicate  directly  with 
Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.'s  Bank,  San  Francisco,  sealing  their  enclosures, 
which  must  be  way-billed  at  their  declared  value. 

Transfer  of  Offices. 

26.  In  transferring  an  agency,  the  outgoing  agent  must  make  his 
abstract  and  statement  to  date  of  transfer  ;  also  an  inventory  of  all 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


13 


money,  collections,  C.O.D.'s,  freight  or  property  of  the  Company, 
in  triplicate,  verified  and  signed  in  ink,  by  both  parties,  (one  copy  for 
the  person  delivering,  one  for  the  receiver,  and  one  for  the  Com- 
pany.) The  Company's  copy  must  be  forwarded  to  the  Division 
Superintendent,  or  delivered  to  the  Route  Agent,  if  witness  to  the 
transfer. 

Suits  at  Law. 

27.  If  a  suit  is  brought  against  the  Company,  the  General  or  Divi- 
sion Superintendent  must  be  immediately  notified,  and  furnished 
with  full  particulars,  and  copies  of  the  Complaint  and  Summons. 

28.  If  a  Writ  of  Attachment,  Garnishment  or  Replevin,  or  any 
document  of  similar  character,  is  served  upon  an  agent  or  messenger, 
for  money  or  goods  on  hand  or  in  transit,  he  must  retain  the  property 
in  his  possession  and  not  deliver  it  to  the  Officer.  The  General 
or  Division  Superintendent  must  be  immediately  notified  by  letter, 
with  full  particulars,  and  copies  of  papers  served. 

Handling  Freight. 

29.  In  handling  freight,  or  distributing  it  in  transit,  employe's  must 
exercise  such  care  that  the  frailest  article  will  not  be  injured.  No 
package  should  be  thrown,  dropped,  or  allowed  to  fall. 

30.  Special  instructions  marked  on  goods,  such  as  "  Handle  care- 
fully," "  This  side  up,"  "  Keep  dry,"  etc.,  must  be  observed. 

31.  Hooks  must  not  be  used  in  handling  bales  or  trunks. 

32.  Damage  from  careless  or  rough  handling  must  be  paid  for  by 
the  person  at  fault. 

33.  Live  stock,  poultry,  etc.,  must  be  supplied  with  food  and  water, 
and  abundance  of  air  and  light. 

34.  Care  must  be  taken  in  handling  and  transferring  money  and 
valuables  at  depots,  and  no  large  sum  of  money  must  be  transferred 
except  by  two  or  more  employe's,  well  armed. 


14  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


RECEIVING  AND  FORWARDING  GOODS. 


Forwarding  Receipts. 

1.  The  Company's  printed  receipt,  filled  out  in  ink  or  with  ani- 
line pencil,  must  be  given  to  shippers  for  every  package  or  con- 
signment to  be  forwarded. 

2.  A  value  should  be  declared  by  the  shipper  on  every  consign- 
ment, which  must  be  inserted  in  the  receipt,  and  entered  on  the 
way-bill.  Packages  of  unusual  value  must  be  properly  sealed.  No 
article  must  be  receipted  for  without  being  seen,  and  the  value 
stated. 

3.  The  Company  assumes  no  liability  for  value  of  goods  ex- 
ceeding $50,  unless  a  greater  value  is  declared  when  shipped. 

4.  Agents  must  not  contract  or  receipt  to  deliver  matter  in  a 
specified  time,  nor  beyond  the  Company's  routes ;  nor  must  they 
agree  to  deliver  matter  to  passengers  on  trains  or  vessels,  or  at 
railway  or  steamship  depots. 

6.  The  Company  is  not  liable  for  loss  of  or  damage  to  matter 
forwarded  as  agreed  and  delivered  to  connecting  companies. 

6.  Empty  liquor  and  beer  kegs,  cigar-boxes,  or  other  unfilled 
packages  bearing  Government  Revenue  stamps,  must  not  be  received 
unless  the  stamps  are  canceled  or  removed. 

7.  Camphene,  nitro-glycerine,  naphtha,  benzine,  petroleum  or 
other  explosive  burning  fluids  ;  gunpowder,  giant  powder,  oil  of  vitriol, 
nitric  or  other  chemical  acids ;  turpentine,  matches,  phosphorus  or 
loaded  fire-arms,  must  not  be  received  for  transportation. 

8.  Agents  must  acquaint  themselves  with  and  be  governed  by 
the  Game  Laws  of  their  State  or  Territory. 

9.  Agents  must  never  undertake  to  carry  persons  by  express. 

10.  For  Marine  Insurance  on  merchandise  see  rule  on  San 

Francisco  tariff. 

Packing  and  Marking  Freight. 

11.  A  package  must  bear  but  one  address. 

12.  The  address  on  all  articles  must  be  plainly  marked,  with 
marking  paint,  if  possible ;  otherwise  forwarding  tags  must  be  at- 
tached. Agents  at  Transfer  points  must  renew  marks  where  there 
is  a  probability  of  their  being  obliterated  en  route. 


Wells,  Fargo  <2f  Cos  Express.  15 


13.  The  street  and  number  of  the  consignee's  place  of  business 
or  residence  should  be  given  on  each  package  destined  to  a  city. 

14.  The  name  of  consignor  should,  in  all  cases,  appear  on 
packages. 

15.  When  two  or  more  articles  are  tied  or  wired  together,  such 
as  castings,  etc.,  the  number  must  be  indicated  on  way-bill  as  well 
as  on  the  tag  or  mark. 

16.  The  printed  label  (Red  sticker)  must  be  attached  to  all 
packages  forwarded,  money  excepted,  placing  it  on  the  side  addressed. 

17.  If  the  name  of  the  office  is  not  printed  on  labels,  it  must  be 
written  or  stamped. 

18.  In  receiving  packages  to  be  forwarded,  the  weight  and  amount 
of  charges,  if  prepaid,  should  be  marked  upon  them  before  they  are 
receipted  for. 

19.  Goods  liable  to  damage  from  water,  should  be  protected 
by  oilcloth  or  other  waterproof  material,  by  the  shipper. 

20.  Large  packages  of  dry  goods,  clothing,  etc.,  should  be  boxed 
or  put  up  in  oilcloth. 

Worthless,  Fragile,  or  Perishable  Goods. 

21.  Goods  evidently  not  worth  charges  must  not  be  received 
unless  prepaid  or  guaranteed  ;  if  the  latter,  the  word  "  Guaranteed," 
and  the  name  of  the  guarantor,  must  be  noted  on  package  and  on 
way-bill. 

22.  Poultry,  fish,  fruit,  etc.,  or  perishable  articles  of  any  description, 
and  articles  contained  in  glass,  should  be  so  marked,  and  taken  only 
at  "  owner's  risk,"  charges  prepaid  or  guaranteed.  Live  turkeys, 
geese,  or  other  fowls,  must  be  put  in  boxes  or  coops ;  agents  must 
decline  to  receive  them  if  offered  in  bags. 

23.  Demijohns  or  other  glassware,  or  earthenware,  must  be  re- 
fused, unless  well  packed  in  wood. 

24.  The  condition  in  regard  to  risk  must  be  specified  in  the  re- 
ceipt ;  and  in  order  to  make  such  contract  binding,  should  loss  or 
damage  ensue,  agents  must  fill  out  two  receipts,  and  take  the 
signature  of  shipper  across  the  face  of  both,  as  accepting  and 
agreeing  to  conditions  named ;  retaining  the  duplicate  on  file,  for 
evidence  in  case  of  loss  or  controversy.  In  large  or  regular  ship- 
ments of  "  Owner's  Risk  "  goods,  a  formal  guaranty  must  be  taken 
on  the  printed  blanks  furnished. 


i6 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


25.  When  perishable  goods  are  refused  by  consignee,  or  not  called 
for,  they  must  be  sold  at  once  (unless  otherwise  ordered)  to  the  best 
advantage,  and  the  net  proceeds,  less  charges,  with  account  of  sale, 
returned  to  shipping  office. 

26.  Should  the  amount  be  insufficient  to  pay  charges,  the  bal- 
ance must  be  expensed  on  shipping  office,  giving  the  name  and  ad- 
dress of  shipper,  if  known. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express.  ij 


RECEIVING  AND  DELIVERING  GOODS. 


Checking  Way-Bills. 

1.  Before  a  run  leaves  an  office,  "out"  messengers  must 
check  each  entry  on  all  way-bills.  Money  and  valuables  must  not 
be  checked  for  until  messengers  can  keep  the  same  under  their 
control. 

2.  All  way-bills  transferred  between  agents  and  messengers  must 
be  counted,  the  number  entered  on  the  Register,  and  signed  for  by 
the  person  receiving  them. 

3.  When  a  run  is  received  at  an  office,  the  agent,  or  era- 
ploye"  designated  for  the  purpose,  will  at  once  check  every  entiy  on 
way-bills,  with  the  initial  letter  of  his  name.  An  entry  must  never  be 
checked  on  a  way-bill  unless  the  package  is  seen. 

4r.  The  several  entries  on  the  way-bill  must  then  be  transferred 
to  the  Delivery  Book  (which  is  a  complete  record  of  all  way-bills  re- 
ceived) and  the  goods  promptly  delivered. 

5.  Way-bills  passing  through  offices  must  be  checked,  and  the 
number,  date,  where  from,  destination,  number  of  entries,  etc., 
entered  in  the  Register  of  Way-Bills  Passing. 

6.  All  notations  of  "  Short,"  "  Bad  Order,"  etc.,  made  on  way- 
bills must  be  signed  by  the  person  making  them,  with  name  of  office. 
If  a  package  is  checked  in  "  Bad  Order,"  a  memorandum  giving 
particulars  of  its  condition  must  be  made  on  way-bill. 

"Short"  and  "Over." 

7.  When  goods  are  short  it  must  be  so  noted  on  the  way-bill,  and 
immediate  effort  made  to  find  them.  A  "  tracer "  must  be  sent  by 
next  express  to  the  last  office  or  messenger  checking  for  the  missing 
article,  and  another  direct  to  the  shipping  office,  showing  check 
marks  and  notations  on  the  way-bill. 

8.  When  matter  is  short  at  points  where  there  is  not  time  to 
check  way-bills  from  messengers  en  route,  the  billing  office,  or  mes- 
senger from  whom  the  way-bill  was  received,  must  be  notified  at 
once,  and  by  telegraph,  if  necessary. 

9.  When  money  packages  are  short,  beside  sending  tracers,  the 
last  office  or  messenger  checking  the  way-bill  must  be  telegraphed. 


i8 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


10.  On  stage  routes,  when  matter  sent  outside  of  the  treasure  box 
is  short,  agents  should  at  once  make  thorough  search  in  stages,  stage 
offices,  stables,  etc.,  and  notify  in  writing  the  stage  agent,  division 
agent,  or  superintendent. 

1 1 .  An  agent  must  treat  all  "  short "  matter  on  way-bills  destined 

to  another  office  as  if  to  his  own,  making  memorandum  of  same  in 
the  "  Register  of  Way-Bills  Passing;"  when  short  packages  come  to 
hand  the  date  received  and  forwarded  must  be  noted. 

12.  All  goods  remaining  "short"  for  five  days  must  be  reported 
to  the  Division  Superintendent,  with  copy  of  way-bill  and  check 
marks. 

13.  Agents  failing  to  trace  and  notify,  as  above,  when  goods  are 
short,  will  be  held  as  having  received  them. 

14.  Goods  received  without  way-bills  must  be  reported  to  the 
shipping  office  immediately,  and  to  the  Division  Superintendent,  if 

bills  do  not  arrive  within  five  days. 

15.  The  Division  Superintendent  must  be  advised  of  the  receipt 
of  goods  without  marks,  with  full  description  of  packages  and  route 
over  which  carried. 

Freight  Delivery  Receipts. 

16.  Agents  will  be  held  responsible  for  "collect  charges,"  requir- 
ing them  to  be  paid  on  delivery,  and  will  take  receipts,  in  ink  or 
with  aniline  pencil,  in  the  "  Delivery  Receipt  Book,"  for  all 
money,  goods,  etc.  Rubber  or  other  stamps  must  not  be  used  for 
signing  receipts. 

17.  The  date  must  always  be  noted  with  signature  in  the  "De- 
livery Receipt  Book." 

18.  Agents  will  be  held  responsible  for  the  wrong  delivery  of 
goods. 

19.  Unknown  consignees  must  be  identified  by  some  responsible 
person;  such  person  signing  receipt  with  consignee. 

20.  A  written  order  to  deliver  goods,  etc.,  must  be  pasted  on 
fly-leaf  of  the  Delivery  Book.  The  Agent  must  be  satisfied  that 
such  order  is  genuine. 

21.  Articles  addressed  to  the  "Care  of"  an  individual  or  com- 
pany, must  be  delivered  to  that  individual  or  company,  or  on  their 
order,  and  not  to  the  person  addressed.    Orders  must  be  preserved. 

22.  Matter  refused  by  consignees  must  not  be  returned  to  shipper 
unless  all  charges  are  "  prepaid  "  or  "  guaranteed." 

23.  Goods  ordered  re-shipped  or  forwarded,  must  be  accom- 
panied by  the  order,  enveloped,  and  way-billed  :  "  and  guar- 
anty." 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


z9 


24.  If  possible,  goods  must  be  delivered  the  day  received,  par- 
ticularly valuable  packages  and  perishable  matter.  If  not  so  de- 
livered, consignees  must  be  immediately  notified  on  postal  cards 
furnished  for  that  purpose.  Goods  remaining  one  day  undelivered 
must  be  transferred  to  the  0.  H.  Book. 

25.  When  charges  on  "guaranteed"  matter  are  not  promptly 
paid,  agents  will  expense  the  amount  on  the  shipping  office,  giving 
name  of  consignor ;  but  in  case  of  subsequent  delivery,  charges 
must  be  collected  of  consignee,  and  shipping  office  notified.  A 
"guarantee"  (except  on  perishable  matter)  holds  good  for  ninety 
days  from  date  of  way-bill. 

Claims  for  Damages. 

26.  Agents  must  personally  investigate  all  claims  for  damages. 

27.  Any  claim  exceeding  ten  dollars  must  be  referred  to  the  Divi- 
sion Superintendent. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


21 


4.  To  avoid  paying  charges,  many  persons  send  letters  containing 
money,  at  a  nominal  value,  asking  no  receipt.  Such  letters  must 
not  be  way-billed,  unless  there  is  a  value  specified.    If  the 

agent  suspects  evasion,  he  must  insist  that  the  true  value  be  de- 
clared. 

5.  All  letters  containing  money  or  valuables  must  be  enclosed 
in  the  Company's  money  envelopes,  properly  sealed  and  way-billed. 

6.  Currency  must  never  be  put  in  packages  or  bags  with  coin, 
but  enclosed  in  regular  money  envelopes. 

7.  Every  envelope  containing  currency  must  be  sealed,  as  shown 
in  the  diagram,  and  a  double  thread  stitched  through  the  envelope 
and  contents,  tied,  and  sealed  over  the  knot. 


8.  Large  packages  of  money  otherwise  put  up  must  be  so 
securely  sealed  that  they  cannot  be  tampered  with  without  detection. 

9.  The  exact  amount  of  currency  contained  in  a  package  or  an 
envelope  must  be  plainly  marked  thereon;  and  money  must  not 
be  receipted  for  until  it  is  properly  packed,  addressed,  stitched 
and  sealed.  The  name  of  the  shipper  must  be  written  on  the  en- 
closure. 

10.  Inreceivingsilvercointobe  forwarded,  amounts  exceeding  $25 
must  not  be  counted.  Such  packages,  and  all  money  and  valuables 
for  points  beyond  the  Company's  lines,  must  be  put  up  and 
sealed  by  the  shipper  with  his  private  seal,  or  the  Public  Seal. 

11.  Agents  must  require  shippers  to  endorse  the  value  on  all 
packages  of  bonds,  drafts,  acceptances,  notes  and  deeds,  and  a 
record  of  the  numbers,  etc.,  must  be  kept,  to  aid  in  their  recover)- 
in  case  of  loss. 


22  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


12.  Money  shipped  by  an  agent  or  employ^  of  telegraph,  railroad 
or  other  transportation  company  must  be  put  up  in  strong  bags, 
envelopes  or  wrappers,  and  sealed  by  the  shipper  with  his  private 
seal,  or  with  that  of  the  company  he  represents. 

13.  Gold-dust  in  large  quantities  must  be  put  in  strong  and  well 
sewed  canvas  bags,  tied  and  sealed  above  and  close  to  the  knot. 
Small  lots  may  be  put  in  buckskin  bags,  wrapped  in  stout  paper 
and  sealed.    In  no  case  shall  a  receipt  be  given  for  weight.  Tin 

cans  must  not  be  used. 

14.  Shippers  should  avoid  putting  more  than  one  gold  bar  in  a 
package.  When  bars  or  coin  are  in  boxes,  lids  should  be  screwed 
on,  and  the  screw-heads  counter-sunk,  and  sealed  with  wax.  All  seals 
must  be  legible. 

15.  If  packages  are  not  put  up  and  sealed  in  accordance  with 
these  instructions,  and  contents  are  short,  the  amount  will  be  ex- 
pensed, with  the  envelope,  wrapper  or  bag,  on  shipping  office. 

Receipt  and  Delivery  of  Money  and  Valuables. 

16.  If  possible,  money  packages  must  be  delivered  the  day 
received,  and  receipts  taken  in  ink  or  with  aniline  pencil,  with  date 
of  delivery.  If  not  so  delivered,  consignees  must  be  immediately 
notified  on  Postal  Cards  furnished  for  that  purpose. 

17.  In  opening  a  money  package,  the  seals  must  not  be  broken, 
but  the  paper  cut  on  the  edge  or  side ;  in  opening  bags  of  coin,  the 
string  must  be  cut  so  as  to  preserve  the  seals.  In  case  of  "shortage," 
the  deficit  must  be  certified  to  by  agent  and  consignee,  and  wrappers 
or  bags,  strings,  etc.,  preserved  as  evidence. 

18.  A  package  of  money  sealed  with  the  Company's  seal  must  be 
opened  in  the  presence  of  the  consignee  and  contents  counted ; 
should  it  contain  any  counterfeit  or  uncurrent  money,  the  same 
must  be  kept  separately,  the  shipping  agent  immediately  advised, 
and  instructions  asked. 

19.  In  delivering  money  sealed  with  the  "  Public"  seal,  the  package 
must  be  handed  intact  to  the  consignee,  and  his  receipt  taken.  In 
no  case  shall  it  be  opened  and  contents  counted  to  him  ;  nor  will  the 
Company  be  responsible  for  any  discrepancy  in  the  amount  or 
character  of  the  money. 

20.  In  delivering  Paid  C.  O.  D.'s,  Collections,  etc.,  the  package 
must  be  opened  and  money  counted  in  presence  of  consignee;  if 
short,  or  containing  counterfeit  or  uncurrent  money,  the  amount  must 
be  paid  to  consignee,  and  expensed  on  the  agent  who  forwarded 
same,  with  envelope,  and  any  rejected  bills  or  coin,  and  explanation 
certified  to  by  consignee. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


23 


21.  Money  packages  must  never  be  returned  to  shippers,  until 
instructions  are  asked  of  and  given  by  the  Division  Superintendent. 

22.  Agents  will  be  held  responsible  for  the  wrong  delivery  of 
money  packages. 

Money  in  Bad  Order. 

23.  If  a  package  of  money  is  found  in  bad  order,  the  agent  must 
open  and  count  it  in  the  presence  of  another  employ^  of  the  Com- 
pany, repack,  seal,  and  forward,  if  for  another  office,  with  the  original 
way-bill,  noting  particulars  in  Remarks  column.  If  short,  the 
deficit  must  be  noted  on  the  way-bill,  and  the  original  wrapper  or 
bag,  etc.,  forwarded  to  destination,  with  a  statement  of  facts,  and 
the  Division  Superintendent  fully  advised. 

Telegraphic  Transfers  and  Reports. 

24.  Agents  supplied  with  Express  Money  Cipher  Books  will,  for 
the  accommodation  of  the  public,  transfer  sums  of  money  by  tele- 
graph to  offices  designated  in  the  list  accompanying  the  Book. 

25.  The  money  so  telegraphed  must  be  remitted  by  first  express 
to  the  office  instructed  to  pay,  properly  packed,  addressed  and  way- 
billed,  with  notation  on  package  and  in  Remarks  column  of  way- bill, 

"Acct.  T.  T."  (Account  of  Telegraphic  Transfer.)  In  addition 
to  other  charges,  the  cost  of  telegram  must  be  paid  for  by  consignor 
or  consignee.  Messages  directing  such  payments  must  be  delivered 
at  the  telegraph  office  by  the  agent  himself,  or  by  an  employe'  of 
the  Company. 

26.  Money  must  not  be  telegraphed  except  batween  agencies 
furnished  with  the  Cipher  Book. 

27.  Reports  of  Telegraphic  Transfers  made  and  paid  must  be 
sent  to  the  Division  Superintendent,  on  the  proper  blank,  at  the 
close  of  each  month. 


24  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


CHARGES. 


1.  A  charge  must  be  made  on  every  package  or  consignment 
way-billed,  except  "D.  H."  (Free),  "P.  O.  R."  (Pay  on  Return),  or 
"S.  C."  (Season  Contract)  matter  from  agencies  authorized.  If 
wrong,  the  office  receiving  must  "  add  "  or  "  off"  on  the  way-bill. 

2.  When  in  doubt  as  to  the  proper  charge,  the  agent  may  enter 
"  M.  P."  (Make  Price),  and  the  agent  receiving  will  add  the  charge 
on  way-bill,  and  account  for  it  on  statement. 

3.  Agents  must  not  make  special  agreements  without  authority. 
Contracts  made  by  one  agent  must  be  respected  by  another,  when 
a  receipt  or  other  good  evidence  is  produced.  When  charges  con- 
flict with  the  tariff,  the  Division  Superintendent  must  be  ad- 
vised. 

4.  When  charges  are  prepaid,  care  must  be  taken  to  collect  the 
proper  amount,  and  the  package  marked  "  Paid,"  with  the  amount 
and  name  or  initials  of  the  person  receiving. 

5.  "  Collect "  charges  must  not  be  made  beyond  the  office  way- 
billed  to. 

6.  When  "Collect"  charges  have  been  agreed  through,  the  rate 
to  destination  must  be  noted  in  Remarks  column. 

7.  When  agents  cannot  make  the  through  price  correctly  on 
matter  destined  to  points  in  the  territory  of  other  companies,  they 
will  accept  prepayment  to  the  transfer  point  of  this  Company  only. 

8.  When  way-bills  call  for  "Collect"  charges  and  there  is  good 
evidence  that  such  entry  should  have  been  S.  C.  or  Prepaid,  the 
amount  must  not  be  collected.  A  receipt  showing  payment,  or 
prepaid  mark  over  initials,  or  S.  C.  sticker  on  the  package,  will  be 
sufficient.  In  such  cases,  the  charges  must  be  expensed  on  bill- 
ing office,  with  the  receipt,  wrapper  or  sticker. 

9.  Money  or  other  matter  sent  with  Commissions  must  be  way- 
billed  either  prepaid  or  collect.  Charges  must  be  made  on  Com- 
missions filled  or  unfilled.  Those  involving  unusual  responsibility, 
special  attention  or  inconvenience,  must  be  charged  for  extra.  Upon 
deeds,  and  similar  documents  for  record,  or  acknowledgment,  a 
deposit  sufficient  to  cover  all  probable  expenses  must  be  required, 
and  the  amount  deposited  noted  on  envelope. 

10.  Charges  on  Corpses  must  be  prepaid,  and  a  Physician's 
Certificate  as  to  the  cause  of  death  forwarded  with  the  Corpse. 


be 
< 


~  ~  :> 
Cn     Ph  !> 


Jo 


In     U     U  Q 


26  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


11.  All  Live  Stock  must  be  receipted  for  at  owner's  risk,  and 
charges  must  be  prepaid  or  guaranteed. 

12.  Shippers  of  Horses,  or  other  valuable  live  stock,  must  be  re- 
quired to  sign  a  contract  releasing  from  any  liability  this  Company, 
and  railroad  or  other  companies  whose  lines  may  be  used  for  the 
purposes  of  transportation. 

13.  Dogs  must  not  to  be  taken  unless  boxed,  or  with  collar  and 
chain  attached,  and  charges  prepaid. 

14-.  On  Carpet-Bags  and  Valises,  containing  wearing  apparel; 
Bundles  of  Blankets,  Seeds,  Cuttings,  Shrubbery,  Plants,  Samples, 
Papers  or  Medicines,  and  all  merchandise  evidently  not  worth  freight, 
charges  must  be  prepaid  or  guaranteed  to  destination. 

15.  See  Classification  Card  for  charges  and  guarantees  on  mat- 
ter not  mentioned  herein. 

Adding  and  Offing  Charges. 

16.  Charges  on  "In"  way-bills  must  be  made  to  conform  to 
tariff,  by  adding  or  deducting,  noting  the  same  in  "  Remarks " 
column. 

17.  When  charges  are  "offed, "  the  reason  must  be  stated  on  the 
way-bill. 

18.  Under  no  circumstances  must  Advanced  Charges 
("  Expense  ")  be  deducted. 

19.  The  original  figures  on  way-bills  must  never  be  erased  nor 
changed. 

20.  No  deduction  from  charges  on  way-bills  for  goods  "  short " 
must  be  made  until  authorized  by  the  Division  Superintendent. 

21.  When  an  overcharge  or  other  error  is  made  in  rates  on  matter 
received  from  a  connecting  company,  no  deduction  or  refund  must 
be  made  unless  authorized  by  the  General  or  Division  Superin- 
tendent. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express.  27 


WAY  -  BILLS. 


1.  Way-bills  must  accompany  all  matter  forwarded  and  be 
properly  registered. 

2.  Way-bills  must  be  numbered  consecutively,  beginning  with  the 
new  year.  All  way-bills  issued  on  any  one  day  must  bear  the 
same  number. 

3.  Separate  way-bills  for  freight  and  money  must  be  made  to  San 
Francisco  and  to  all  large  offices.  On  Freight  way-bills  must  be  entered 
all  freight  and  ordinary  packages;  and  on  Money  way-bills,  valuable 
parcels,  money,  bullion,  gold-dust,  jewels,  bonds,  letters,  collections, 
paid  and  returned  collections,  paid  C.O.D.'s  and  commissions. 

i.  To  transfer  points,  separate  way-bills  must  be  made  for  "  local  " 
and  "  transfer  "  matter. 

5.  Matter  destined  over  sea  routes,  via  San  Francisco,  must  be 
way-billed  to  San  Francisco  only. 

6.  Matter  destined  to  a  place  en  route  where  there  is  no  office, 
must  be  billed  to  the  office  at  the  end  of  the  route.  Way-bills  must 
not  be  made  to  a  point  where  the  Company  has  no  office. 

7.  When  goods  are  prepaid  to  destination,  beyond  the  Com- 
pany's lines,  the  amount  paid  must  be  entered  on  way-bill  in  "  Our 
Charges  "and  "Prepaid"  columns,  and  "  Thro'"  be  written  in  Re- 
marks column. 

8.  Consignor's  name  should  be  entered  in  "From  whom  re- 
ceived "  column,  whenever  possible. 

9.  The  value  of  every  article  forwarded  should  be  entered  on 
the  way-bill. 

10.  The  rate  per  100  lbs.  and  per  $1000  should  be  entered  on 
all  way-bills,  in  spaces  ruled  for  that  purpose. 

1 1 .  The  weights  of  all  packages,  and  of  silver  bullion,  must  be 
entered  on  way-bills ;  also  the  numbers  on  silver  bars. 

12.  When  goods  are  addressed  with  a  private  mark  or  an  initial 
letter,  the  name  of  consignee  must  be  ascertained  and  entered  on 
the  way-bill.  Matter  addressed  to  the  "  Care  of "  an  individual  or 
company  must  be  so  way-billed. 

13.  When  a  package  is  entered  "Free"  on  a  way-bill,  the  name 
of  the  consignor  must  be  given,  and  number  of  his  Pass. 


u 


A  CO 

H  CO 

W 

Pu 

X 

w 

co 

b 

u 

O 

0 

| 

FA 

co- 

LL 

i 

1 

G  C 


o   o    o  o 


£  =  2 


-  pa 


-  / 


P  J?  .  (U 
E  R  a  g 

X  a  *i  h 


u  > 


o  ^  i 
>,  O  in 


U  2  J 


=  <  H 
X  >  6 


Ui  SF   x    x    w  C 

J<      «      O      O      X  O 

s.  u  «  ps  «  u  m 


PS 

PS  PS 


PS 


bS  «  ps 


O 


I 

s 


a 


CO 

W 
Pi 

X 
W 

co 

b 
u 

O 
o 
pi 
< 

co" 
W 


O  N 
00 


3  « 


U 

P  -2 


to 


»-  •§  ^  * 


£  2; 


«  J  £  < 


o 
u 

e 

;enb.n 

o 

xl  pi- 

rn 

<i 

0 

o 

y 

08 

d 

H 

(J 

=8 

(»  P<.E 

ad  I  3 


«  > 

°i  a 

.  o 

H  U 


V 


h  1    a,  s 


: 

til 

.d 

H 

«3 

0 

CJ 

"5) 

M 

o 

Agent 

Dou 

"5 
>— » 

■s 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

0 

o 

o 

0 

o 

o 

o 

M 

0 
r  ^ 

~3 

3 

CO 


« 

> 

o 

'3 

- 

y 

a 

W 

be 

'5 

O 

>, 

pq 

U 

co 

rJ 

°8 

d 

d 

P 

JB 

bJ3 

o 

'o 

"o 

d 

C- 

U 

2 

13 

CI 

55 

U 

Ph 

Ph 

Ph 

■s  o  y 


ha  >, 

«  y 


►J   ifl  < 


3° 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


14.  If  matter  is  received  on  a  regular  way-bill,  destined  to  another 
office,  it  must  be  re-way-billed,  giving  name,  number  and  date  of 
original  way-bill.  If  charges  are  prepaid,  the  amount  must  be  en- 
tered in  Remarks  column  of  way-bill,  thus:  "Paid,  $  ." 

If  collect,  the  charges  must  be  entered  in  Expense  column,  and 
if  through  rate  is  not  known,  Our  Charges  must  be  entered  "  M.  P.," 
and  the  office  to  which  it  is  destined  will  make  rate  from  the  original 
shipping  office. 

15.  When  matter  is  found  incorrectly  way-billed,  the  messenger  or 
agent  discovering  the  error,  must  make  a  duplicate  way-bill  of  same 
number  and  date,  to  the  proper  office,  noting  on  same  "  Taken 
from  way-bill  to  —  No.    Date   ,"  and  al- 
lowing original  way-bill  to  go  to  its  destination,   with  notation, 

"  Made  way-bill  same  No.  and  Date  to  ,"  signing  his  name 

thereto.  The  agent  receiving  duplicate  way-bill  must  make  charges, 
when  collect,  conform  to  tariff.  In  settling  the  original  way-bill, 
charges  should  be  left  blank  on  the  statement. 

16.  Freight  destined  to  one  office  and  received  at  another  with- 
out a  way-bill,  can  be  forwarded  with  a  "  Mem."  way-bill,  after  it  has 
been  noted  in  record  of  Way-Bills  Passing,  and  the  shipping  office 
advised. 

17.  If  a  money  package  be  so  received,  a  regular  way  bill  must 

be  made,  noting  "  Received  from    (date)  without  bill." 

Money  packages  must  never  be  forwarded  on  "  Mem.  way-bills." 

18.  In  forwarding  goods  after  a  final  disposition  of  the  regular 
way-bill,  a  Memorandum  way-bill  can  be  sent. 

19.  When  a  Memorandum  way-bill  precedes  a  regular,  it  must  be 
noted  "Reg.  to  follow;"  and  on  a  regular  way-bill,  "Hence  on 

Mem.   "  (insert  date).    If  a  Memorandum  way-bill  follows  at 

regular,  "  Reg.  ahead  "  must  be  noted. 

20.  Offices  receiving  matter  without  a  way-bill,  or  on  a  "  Mem. 
way-bill,"  must  write  the  shipping  office  for  a  regular  way-bill,  if  one  is 
not  received  by  the  following  express. 

21.  Memorandum  way-bills  should  be  treated  in  all  respects  as 
regular  way-bills,  but  are  not  to  be  accounted  for  on  abstracts  or 
statements. 


o 
55 


z 
o 
fi 
w 

X 


co 
co 
W 
c4 
cu 
X 
w 

CO 

b 
u 

o 
o 

< 

co" 
— 

w 


Ph 

z 

CO 


H 

w 
a 


i 


S  < 


j 2  Wells,  Fargo  <2f  Cos  Express. 


COLLECTIONS. 


1.  A  "Collection"  is  a  bill,  check,  draft,  promissory  note,  or 
other  evidence  of  indebtedness,  to  be  presented  for  payment. 

2.  The  Company's  collection  receipt,  in  ink,  specifying  char- 
acter and  amount  of  the  Collection,  must  always  be  given. 

3.  A  note,  endorsed  draft,  or  commission  for  collection  of 
moneys,  on  any  agent  of  the  Company,  must  not  be  received. 

4.  Collection  envelopes  containing  bonds,  coupons  or  other 
valuable  papers  for  collection,  must  be  sealed,  and  the  description 
and  value  of  contents  noted  thereon. 

5.  Collections  or  Commissions  must  not  be  received  for  a  point 
where  the  Company  has  no  agent,  nor  for  points  east  of  Kansas  City 
or  Ogden,  except  principal  cities. 

6.  Collections  must  be  refused  when  instructions  are  to  "Pro- 
test;" nor  must  any  be  received  upon  which  legal  action  is  re- 
quired. 

7.  Collections  received  by  mail  must  be  returned  to  the  sender, 
with  request  for  him  to  forward  through  the  regular  Express  agency. 

8.  Agents  must  decline  receiving  partial  payment  of  a  Collection, 
unless  specially  instructed.  In  such  cases  the  amount  collected 
must  be  remitted  promptly  to  the  billing  office,  with  advice,  noting  on 
way-bill :  "  Acc't  Collection  No.  ,  from  Office." 

9.  When  payment  of  a  Collection  is  refused,  or  cannot  be  made, 
it  must  be  returned  at  once,  noting  on  envelope  the  reason  for  non- 
payment.   A  Collection  must  never  be  held  longer  than  30  days. 

10.  When  instructions  are  received  to  place  a  Collection  in  the 
hands  of  an  attorney,  the  receipt  of  such  attorney,  waiving  any  claim 
against  the  Company,  must  be  taken  in  duplicate ;  the  original  en- 
closed in  the  Collection  envelope  and  returned  to  the  shipping  office, 
and  the  duplicate  retained  on  file. 

11.  Communication  must  never  be  made  direct  with  consignors  of 
Collections,  but  always  with  or  through  the  office  Way-Billing. 
Instructions  of  shippers  must  receive  no  attention  unless  endorsed 
by  the  shipping  agent.  For  treatment  of  correspondence  relative  to 
Collections,  see  page  45,  paragraph  8. 

12.  When  a  note,  draft  or  check  is  payable  to  the  order  of  the 
person  sending,  such  paper  must  be  endorsed  thus :  "  Pay  Wells, 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


33 


Fargo  &  Co.  for  collection,"  and  signed  by  the  payee.    Agents  must 

guarantee  the  endorsement  as  follows  :  "  Signature  genuine.  

 ,  Agent,"  making  a  similar  endorsement  on  the  Collection 

envelope.  Strangers  sending  Collections  of  this  nature  must  identify 
themselves. 

13.  When  a  draft  is  accepted  in  payment  by  order  of  the  con- 
signor, it  must  be  made  payable  to  him  ;  a  draft  or  check  otherwise 
accepted,  must  be  payable  to  the  agent  sending  the  collection,  but 
is  at  the  risk  of  the  agent  by  whom  taken. 

14.  Mutilated  or  defaced  coin  or  currency  must  not  be  accepted 
in  payment. 

15.  Currency  payments  should  be  remitted  in  collection  envelopes, 
stitched  and  sealed,  but  coin  must  be  enclosed  in  wrappers  or  bags, 
addressed  to  shipper  and  marked  :  "Acct.  Colin.  No.  ." 

16.  A  deposit  on  Collections  sent  must  be  required,  to  cover 
return  charges.  Agents  will  be  held  responsible  for  charges  on 
Returned  Collections. 

17.  The  date  of  presentation,  payment  or  refusal,  and  date  re- 
turned, must  be  noted  on  the  envelope,  and  Returned  or  Paid 
Collections  way-billed  to  the  office  from  whence  received,  unless 
otherwise  instructed  by  billing  office. 

18.  All  Collections,  sent  or  received,  must  be  recorded  in  the 
Collection  Register. 

19.  Receipts  must  always  be  taken  for  Returned  Collections. 


34 


Wells,  Fargo  <2f  Cos  Express. 


C.  0.  D.'s. 


1.  A  C.O.D.  (Collect  on  Delivery)  is  a  bill,  or  invoice,  to 
be  collected  on  delivery  of  the  goods  accompanying. 

2.  A  bill,  or  invoice,  must  be  furnished  by  the  shipper  of 
C.O.D.  matter,  (otherwise  it  must  not  be  taken)  and  enclosed  in  a 
C.O.D  envelope,  the  C.O.D.  label  attached  to,  and  the  amount 
marked  on  the  package,  and  entered  upon  the  way-bill. 

3.  Agents  receiving  C.O.D.  goods  for  shipment  must  require  pre- 
payment or  a  guarantee  on  all  of  doubtful  value — particularly  medi- 
cines, chromos,  and  Bills  of  Lading. 

4.  Bills  of  Lading  (or  shipping  receipts)  must  be  taken  as 
"C.O.D."  only.  The  shipper  must  address  the  goods  to  himself, 
and  transfer  them  by  endorsing  the  Bill  of  Lading.  Goods  so 
shipped  must  remain  in  transportation  company's  hands  until  called 
for  by  the  assignee. 

5.  Advices  as  to  non-delivery  of  CO.  D.'s  must  be  sent  to  the 
shipping  office — never  direct  to  the  consignor.  The  date  of  such 
advice  and  final  disposition  must  be  noted  on  the  envelope. 

6.  C.O.D.  packages  must  not  be  forwarded  beyond  original  des- 
tination, unless  by  special  instructions  on  bill,  or  C.O.D.  envelope, 
or  on  orders  from  the  shipping  office. 

7.  A  C.O.D.  package  must  never  be  opened  or  delivered  until 
the  bill  and  express  charges  are  paid,  unless  otherwise  specially 
authorized.  No  attention  must  be  paid  to  instructions  of  shippers 
unless  endorsed  by  shipping  agent. 

8.  When  an  examination  of  goods  is  authorized,  the  contents 
must  be  carefully  checked  by  the  invoice,  and  after  inspection,  well 
re-packed.  No  examination  will  be  permitted  when  the  invoice  is 
long  and  intricate.  Trying  on  and  experimenting  with  goods  will 
not  be  allowed. 

9.  Partial  payment  of  the  bill  on  the  delivery  of  part  of  the 
goods  must  not  be  accepted,  unless  by  special  instructions. 

10.  When  C.O.D.  goods  are  received  in  advance  of  the  envelope, 
and  the  agent  is  certain  of  the  proper  amount  to  be  collected,  the 
goods  may  be  delivered  on  payment,  and  the  amount  returned  to  the 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


shipping  office,  with  a  memorandum  envelope.  If  in  doubt,  the  ship- 
ping office  must  be  notified  immediately,  giving  name  of  con- 
signee, and  consignor,  if  possible. 

11.  If  a  C.O.D.  is  released,  the  reasons  must  be  stated  on  the 
envelope  and  it  way-billed  to  shipping  office,  with  charges. 

12.  Currency  payments  should  be  remitted  in  C.O.D.  envelopes, 
stitched  and  sealed,  but  coin  must  be  enclosed  in  wrappers  or 
bags,  addressed  to  shipper,  and  marked  :  "  Acct.  C.O.D.  " 

13.  Consignor's  receipt  must  be  taken  on  the  Delivery  Book  for 
a  C.O.D.  when  returned,  paid  or  unpaid. 

14.  The  return  charges  for  other  express  companies  on  Paid 
C.O.D.'s  must  be  enclosed  in  the  envelope,  and  endorsed  upon  its 
face.    The  original  figures  must  not  be  changed. 

15.  All  C.O.D.'s  sent  or  received  must  be  recorded  in  the  Col- 
lection or  C.O.D.  Register,  and  the  record  must  show  the  final 
disposition  of  each.  When  the  Collection  Register  is  used  for  this 
purpose,  the  initials  "  C.O.D."  must  be  placed  opposite  such  entries. 

16.  When  C.O.D.  goods  are  not  taken  within  20  days  after  arri- 
val, the  billing  office  must  be  notified  of  the  reason  of  non-de- 
livery, and  instructions  asked.  If  not  delivered  or  otherwise 
disposed  of  within  40  days  after  such  notice,  the  goods  must  be 
returned  to  the  shipper. 

17.  If  a  C.O.D.  bill  is  received  by  mail,  or  otherwise  than  by  regu- 
lar express,  it  must  be  returned  to  the  shipper  at  once.  For  treat- 
ment of  correspondence  relative  to  C.O.D.'s  see  page  45,  par.  8. 

Transfer  of  Collections  a,nd  C.  0.  D.'s. 

18.  To  insure  a  proper  record  of  Collections  and  C.O.D.'s  trans- 
ferred to  other  companies,  agents  at  transfer  offices  must  re-enclose, 
in  regular  transfer  envelope,  properly  endorsed,  all  collections  and 
C.O.D.'s  so  transferred,  retaining  the  original  envelope  until  the 
transfer  is  returned. 

19.  The  transfer  envelope  must  be  made  in  favor  of  Wells,  Fargo 
&  Co. 

20.  When  such  Collection  or  C.O.D.  is  returned  Paid,  the  envelope 
or  package  must  be  opened  without  breaking  the  seals,  the  contents 
counted  and  forwarded  in  or  with  the  original  envelope,  and  the 
transfer  envelope  preserved.  If  contents  are  short,  the  amount 
must  be  made  good,  and  expensed,  with  transfer  envelope,  on  con- 
necting company. 

21.  Only  the  actual  amount  of  a  Collection  or  C.O.D.  invoice 
must  appear  on  the  records  of  transfer  and  on  the  way-bill. 


j><5  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Express. 


PURCHASES  AND  COMMISSIONS. 


1.  Every  facility  is  offered  for  attending  to  Commissions  for 
the  purchase  or  sale  of  goods,  recording  deeds,  paying  taxes,  etc. 

2.  All  Commissions  must  be  endorsed  on  or  enclosed  in  the 
regular  Commission  envelope  and  forwarded  with  money  sufficient 
to  cover  probable  outlay,  way-billed,  with  charges  on  the  remittance 
(see  page  24,  par.  9).  If  not  so  accompanied,  the  agent  sending 
will  be  held  responsible  for  amount  expended,  and  all  charges.  Re- 
mittances or  goods  accompanying  a  Commission  sent  must  be 
marked  :  "  Wells,  Fargo  &  Co.— acct.  Com'n  No.  ." 

3.  Agents  and  messengers  using  the  Company's  Purchasing-Orders 
and  envelopes  will  be  governed  by  instructions  printed  thereon. 

4.  Particular  efforts  must  be  made  to  fill  orders  and  Commis- 
sions promptly — by  first  express,  if  possible.  Any  delay  must  be 
reported  to  the  agent  sending. 

5.  Purchases  made  and  orders  filled  by  messengers  at  terminal 
points,  must  be  delivered  to  the  agent,  and  treated  as  regular 
business  of  the  office. 

6.  Purchases  made  and  orders  filled  by  messengers  en  route, 
must  be  way-billed  by  them,  with  proper  charges. 

7.  No  attention  must  be  paid  to  orders  for  the  purchase  or  sale 
of  goods  if  received  otherwise  than  through  the  express. 

8.  Consignments  of  produce,  game,  furs,  etc.,  for  sale  in  city 
markets  are  to  be  solicited  by  all  agents,  and  forwarded  as  Com- 
missions. Agents  receiving  such  will  promptly  dispose  of  the  same 
to  best  advantage,  returning  net  proceeds  (less  express  charges,  ex- 
penses and  commission),  with  account  of  sale,  to  shipping  agent. 

9.  Instructions  received  with,  and  correspondence  relating  to 
a  Commission,  must  be  kept  in  the  original  envelope,  for  reference, 
until  the  envelope  is  returned. 

10.  All  Commissions  sent  or  received  must  be  recorded  in  the 

Commission  Register. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


37 


LETTERS. 


1.  Agents  must  endeavor  to  maintain  the  popularity  of  this 
branch  of  the  business,  by  care  and  dispatch  in  the  forwarding  of 
letters,  and  promptness  in  delivering  them.  Every  effort  must  be 
made  to  find  the  place  of  business  or  residence  of  persons  ad- 
dressed. 

2.  Letters  must  be  enclosed  in  Franks  (Government  stamped 
envelopes  bearing  the  Company's  imprint.)  The  stamps  must  be 
cancelled  by  the  office  or  messenger  receiving,  except  when  destined 
to  points  off  the  Company's  lines. 

3.  Requests  on  letters  "To  be  returned  unless  delivered,"  etc., 
must  be  complied  with.  A  list  of  those  undelivered  must  be  kept 
in  a  conspicuous  place.    Letters  must  not  be  accessible  to  the  public. 

4.  Agents  must  not  receive  and  forward  letters  supposed  to 
contain  Money  or  Valuables,  unless  regularly  way-billed,  with  proper 
charges. 

5.  The  Company  will  not  be  responsible  for  loss  of  money  or 
valuables  forwarded  as  ordinary  letters. 

6.  Orders  addressed  to  merchants  or  others  for  goods  to  be 
shipped  by  express  must  be  enclosed  in  Government  stamped 
envelopes. 

7.  Letters  for  railroad  or  other  transportation  companies  must 
not  be  carried  beyond  their  routes  unless  in  Government  stamped 
envelopes. 

8.  "  Franks "  must  be  kept  for  sale  at  all  offices,  and  sold  at 
their  cost  price.  They  must  be  ordered  from  the  Stationery  and 
Supply  Department,  San  Francisco,  on  the  blank  furnished  for  that 
purpose,  before  the  supply  is  exhausted.  They  will  be  expensed  on 
agents. 

9.  Letters  remaining  on  hand  three  months,  must  be  returned 
to  the  Secretary,  San  Francisco,  and  the  reason  of  non-delivery  en- 
dorsed on  each. 


We  lis,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


SETTLING  WITH  GENERAL  OFFICE. 


1.  All  business  of  an  office  must  be  settled  promptly  once  a 
month  by  an  Abstract  and  Statement,  separately. 

Abstracts. 

2.  An  Abstract  is  a  report  of  the  Out  business  of  an  office, 
and  must  show  the  number,  date,  destination  and  footing  of  each 
column  of  every  way-bill  forwarded  during  the  month. 

3.  Abstracts  must  be  rendered  to  the  Secretary,  San  Francisco, 
promptly  on  the  first  of  each  month. 

4.  All  way  bills  forwarded  for  the  preceding  month  must  be 
entered  on  the  Abstract,  whether  showing  charges  or  not. 

5.  Abstracts  must  be  numbered  consecutively,  beginning  with 
January  of  each  year,  and  each  sheet  should  bear  the  name  of  the 
office. 

6.  Total  "Pre-paid"  and  total  "Expense"  must  be  carried  to 
the  "  Recapitulation  "  heading  of  the  last  sheet,  and  when  complete, 
all  the  sheets  pinned  together,  placing  the  last  above  the  others, 
that  it  may  appear  first  upon  opening  the  papers. 

7.  Agents  must  prove  their  work  by  adding  the  footings  of  the 
"Expense"  and  "Our  Charges"  columns,  which  should  equal  the 
total  of  the  "Collect  "  and  the  "  Pre-paid  "  columns. 

8.  If  the  Abstract  be  in  favor  of  the  Company,  the  balance  must 
be  remitted  at  once  to  the  Secretary  ;  if  in  favor  of  the  agent,  credit 

must  be  taken  upon  the  Statement. 

9.  No  mutilated  or  defaced  coin  or  currency  will  be  received  in 
payment. 

10.  Agents  must  sign  their  names  to  Abstracts,  and  state 
whether  their  remittance  is  in  coin,  currency  or  check ;  if  coin,  it 
must  be  enclosed  in  package  or  bag,  separately,  and  so  noted. 

11.  Agents  must  retain  copies  of  Abstracts,  in  the  book  fur- 
nished for  that  purpose. 

12.  Vouchers  must  not  be  forwarded  with  Abstracts. 


(Form  of  an  Abstract.) 

WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO'S  EXPRESS. 
Abstract  of  Way-Bills  Nos.  335  to  360, 

FORWARDED  FROM  IONE,  CAL., 

From  Dec.  ist  to  Dec.  31st,  1881,  inclusive. 


Enter  way-bills  as  follows  :  1st,  all  to  San  Francisco  ;  2d,  all  to  Sacramento  ;  3d, 
all  to  Kansas  City;  4th,  all  to  State  Line,  Mo.;  5th,  all  to  Ogden  ;  then  alphabetically 
as  offices  appear  on  the  List  of  Agencies. 


•  ••  $314  IS 

RECAPITULATION.  }  Less  ExPense  

29  10 

1  Balance 

.  .  .  $  285  05  Due  to  Secretary. 

NO. 

DATE. 

WHERE  TO 

EXPENSE. 

OUR  CHARGES. 

COLLECT. 

PREPAID. 

REMARKS. 

1 1  c 
Sib 

Dec.  1 

San  Francisco 

1 0  00 

35  00 

J  ^  UU 

30  00 

348 

15 

do. 

3  10 

118  60 

27  20 

94  50 

359 

"  28 

do. 

35°  00 

175  OO 

175  00 

335 

"  I 

Sacramento .  .  . 

5  00 

3  00 

349 

"  16 

do. 

336 

"  2 

State  Line. . . . 

2  50 

2  50 

360 

"  31 

Bakersfield  .  .  . 

3  35 

3  35 

347 

"  H 

Carson  

i  00 

I  OO 

337 

3 

Downieville. .  . 

75 

75 

355 

"  23 

El  Dorado  .  .  . 

1  50 

1  50 

339 

5 

Farmington .  .  . 

1  00 

1  00 

35° 

"  17 

Genoa  

3  5° 

1  50 

5  00 

358 

"  27 

Hamilton  .... 

3  co 

3  00 

343 

9 

Idaho  City  .  . 

6  50 

6  50 

346 

"  »3 

Jackson  

75 

75 

356 

"  24 

Kelseyville.  . .  . 

90 

90 

354 

"  22 

La  Grange. .  .  . 

60 

60 

338 

4 

Mariposa  

2  50 

1  50 

1  00 

341 

7 

Marysville  .... 

10  00 

5  00 

15  00 

352 

"  19 

do  

1  5° 

1  00 

5° 

345 

"  12 

Napa  

3  00 

3  00 

357 

"  25 

Oakdale  

60 

60 

351 

'•  18 

Pacheco  

90 

90 

353 

"  21 

Red  Bluff  .... 

75 

75 

342 

8 

St.  Helena  .  .  . 

1  00 

1  00 

2  00 

34° 

6 

Truckee  

75 

75 

344 

"  10 

Wadsworth .  .  . 

1  50 

3  50 

2  50 

2  50 

$  29  10 

$55i  45 

$266  40 

§3H  15 

29  10 

266  40 

S580  55 

§580  55 

Cash  herewith.  $28?  05. 

(  Signed ) 


Ione,  January  i,  1882. 


Agent. 


40  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


Statements. 

13.  A  Statement  is  a  report  of  the  In  business  of  an  office, 
made  from  the  way-bills  received  for  the  month,  and  must  show- 
where  from,  number,  date,  and  the  footings  of  every  way-bill,  in- 
cluding Additions  and  Deductions. 

14.  After  footing  each  column,  settlement  must  be  made  as  per 
form  given,  and  the  balance  due  the  Company  remitted  to  the  Sec- 
retary, San  Francisco.  Agents  must  sign  their  names  to  Statements, 
and  make  remittances  as  directed  in  No.  io  of  Abstracts. 

15.  Statements  must  be  proved  in  the  same  manner  as  Abstracts. 

16.  All  Collect  Charges  appearing  upon  way-bills,  must  be 
accounted  for  in  the  Statement,  even  if  packages  are  undelivered. 
The  cash  on  hand  belonging  to  the  Company  will  usually  enable  the 
agent  to  carry  the  "  O.  H." 

17.  Each  Statement  (as  a  whole)  must  bear  one  number,  beginning 
with  every  new  year,  and  each  sheet  should  be  headed  with  the  name 
of  the  office.  The  last  sheet  must  be  placed  above  the  others,  all 
pinned  together,  so  that  it  will  be  the  first  seen  on  opening  the  papers. 

18.  The  Statement,  Way  bills  and  Vouchers  must  be  forwarded 
to  the  Secretary  in  one  sealed  package.  The  money  must  be  for- 
warded separately,  in  money  envelope,  package  or  bag,  to  same  ad- 
dress, marked  :  "  Acct.  Statement." 

19.  No  mutilated  or  defaced  coin  or  currency  will  be  received 

in  payment. 

20.  Agents  must  retain  copies  of  Statements  in  the  book 
furnished  for  that  purpose. 

21.  Statements  must  be  made  by  the  7th  of  each  month,  and 
should  include  all  way-bills  for  the  month  previous. 

22.  Should  way-bills  dated  in  the  previous  month  arrive  after  the 
Statement  has  been  sent,  a  "  supplementary "  Statement  must  be 
made,  and  forwarded  with  the  way-bills  and  proceeds,  and  not  held 
for  the  next  month's  business. 

23.  In  returning  way-bills  with  Statement,  they  may  be  folded 
once,  but  if  practicable  they  should  be  put  up  in  long  packages,  and 
not  folded  or  rolled. 


( Form  of  a  Statement.) 


WELLS,  FARGO  &  CO'S  EXPRESS. 


STATEMENT 

OF  WAY-BILLS  RECEIVED  AT  CHICO,  CAE, 

For  December,  1881. 
Returned  to  San  Francisco,  January  7th,  1882. 


Enter  way-bills  as  follows  :  ist,  all  from  San  Francisco:  2d,  all  from  Sacramento:  3d,  all  from 
Kansas  City;  4th,  all  from  State  Line,  Mo.;  5th,  all  from  Ogden;  then  alphabetically  as  offices 
appear  on  the  List  of  Agencies. 


NO. 

DATE. 

FROM 

EXPENSE. 

OUR  CHCS. 

COLLECT. 

PREPAID. 

ADDS. 

OFFS. 

REMARKS. 

1 1  c 

De  I 

1  75 

8  00 

9  00 

75 

34 1 

' '  1 
1 

do. 

6  00 

12  OO 

10  00 

8  00 

346 

"  12 

ao. 

4  2S 

0  00 

10  25 

25 

360 

20 

do.         .  . 

3  00 

3  00 

339 

5 

Sacram  en  to . . . . 

8  00 

343 

9 

do. 

5° 

75 

25 

5° 

33S 

"  4 

Kansas  City. .  .  . 

1  00 

2  50 

3  50 

353 

"  19 

do  

3  5o 

4  00 

7  50 

358 

"  24 

2  00 

6  00 

8  00 

jOZ 

17  00 

2  00 

19  00 

344 

"  IO 

11  50 

II  50 

I  25 

348 

"  14 

Austin  

75 

75 

365 

31 

1  25 

1  25 

75 

336 

"  2 

12  50 

12  50 

34° 

"  6 

Dayton,  Nev. .  . 

12  00 

6  00 

6  00 

337 

"  3 

Downieville. .  .  . 

2  75 

2  75 

364 

"  3° 

Gold  Hill 

2  75 

2  00 

75 

342 

"  8 

Halleck  

1  25 

1  25 

359 

"  25 

4  25 

3  00 

1  25 

1  00 

335 

"  1 

Marysville  

3  00 

14  00 

16  00 

1  00 

349 

"  15 

do  

75 

8  00 

8  25 

50 

SO 

352 

"  18 

1  50 

1  50 

354 

"  20 

25 

25 

50 

356 

"  22 

San  Jose  

3  00 

2  00 

4  00 

1  00 

336 

"  2 

2  00 

2  00 

36i 

"  27 

2  25 

1  50 

75 

351 

"  17 

Yolo  

1  5o 

1  50 

335 

"  1 

2  75 

2  00 

75 

$45  °o 

$133  50 

I141  25 

$37  25 

*3  50 

75 

Add  undercharges 


Deduct  overcharges. 

I  send  in  payment — 

Commission  Voucher  .  $  45  00 

Drayage  Voucher   5  00 

Cash  to  Balance   94  00 


3  50 

$144  75 
75 

•$144  00 


$  144  00 


(  Signed) 


Agent. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Express. 


Vouchers. 

24.  Credit  must  be  taken  on  the  Statement  for  all  vouchers, 
which  must  bear  the  name  of  the  office  remitting  them,  no  matter 
where  paid,  and  they  must  be  receipted  by  the  person  paid,  and  en- 
dorsed as  correct  by  the  agent. 

25.  Vouchers  for  loss  or  damage  must  show  clearly  how,  when 
and  where  it  occurred,  on  what  way-bill  the  goods  were  forwarded, 
and  all  correspondence  relating  thereto  must  be  attached. 

26.  Vouchers  for  over-charges  must  state  why  the  refund  is 
allowed,  and  also  give  the  number  and  date  of  way-bill  on  which  the 
charges  appear. 

27.  Vouchers  for  unusual  expenditures  must  have  the  endorse- 
ment of  the  General  or  Division  Superintendent,  and  all  corres- 
pondence relating  to  same  must  be  attached  to  the  voucher. 

28.  Agents  will  preserve  duplicates  of  all  vouchers  sent  with  State- 
ments. 

29.  On  matter  destined  to  points  beyond  the  Company's  lines, 
agents  will  be  allowed  commissions  on  charges  to  transfer  point  only. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


43 


STATIONERY  AND  SUPPLIES. 


1.  The  size  of  blanks  must  not  be  changed  by  cutting  or  pasting. 

2.  Blanks,  stationery,  and  other  articles  necessary  for  the  transac- 
tion of  business  will  be  furnished  on  application  to  the  Stationery 
and  Supply  Department,  San  Francisco.  Requisitions — specifying 
particularly  the  quantity  required — should  be  made  on  the  regular 
Blank  and  forwarded  in  the  envelope  furnished  for  that  purpose, 
at  least  two  weeks  before  the  supply  on  hand  will  be  exhausted. 

Office  Outfit. 

3.  The  following  is  a  list  of  books,  stationery,  etc.,  furnished 
offices.  In  ordering,  agents  must  be  particular  to  use  the  label- 
designation  of  books,  and  terms  descriptive  of  blanks,  etc.  : 


Books. 

1 —  Record  of  Way-bills  Forwarded. 

2 —  Record   of   Way-bills  Received 

(usually  the  Delivery  Book.) 

3 —  Register  of  Way-bills  Forwarded 

or  Passing. 

4 —  Delivery   Receipt  Book  (usually 

same  as  No.  2.) 

5 —  Abstract  Book. 

6 —  Statement  Book. 

7 —  ForwardingReceipt  Book — Freight 

8 —  ForwardingReceiptBook — Money. 

9 —  Commission  Register — In  and  Out 

Business. 

10 —  Collection  Register — In  and  Out 

Business. 

11 —  "Old  Horse"  Book. 

12 —  Collection  Receipt  Book. 

13 —  Tracer  (or  "Short  Notice")  Book. 

14 —  Instruction  Book. 

15 —  Express  Directory. 

16 —  Chinese  Directory. 

17 —  Exchange-Order  Book. 

18—  Tariff  Book. 

19 —  Tally  Book. 

Blanks. 

20 —  Way-bills. 

21 —  Abstracts. 

22 —  Statements. 


23 —  Monthly  Reports  to  Div.  Sup't. 

24 —  Treasure  Reports. 

25 —  Freight  Reports. 

26 —  Collection  and  C.O.D.  Advices. 

27—  Postal   Cards— Notices  to  Con- 

signees. 

28 —  Requisitions — Stat'y  and  Franks. 

29 —  Vouchers  —  Commission,  Salary 

and  Expense. 

30 —  Script  Sheets. 

31 —  Letter  and  Note  Heads. 

32 —  Public  Letter  Paper. 

33 —  Statement  Labels. 

Envelopes. 

34 —  Abstract. 

35—  C.0.D. 

36 —  Collection. 

37 —  Commission. 

38 —  Money. 

39—  Agent  W.  F.  &  Co.  (Ass'd  Sizes.) 

40 —  General  Superintendent. 

41 —  Division  Superintendent. 

42 —  Secretary. 

43 —  Auditor. 

44 —  Treasure  Report. 

45 —  Freight  Report. 

46 —  Monthly  Report  to  Division  Sup't. 

47 —  Requisitions  for  Stationery. 

48 —  Exchange-Order. 


44  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


Sundries. 

49 —  Office  Labels — "  Red  Stickers." 

50 —  Address  Tags — -Freight  and  Money. 

51—  C.O.D.  Stickers. 

52 —  Coin  Wrappers. 

53 —  Wrapping  Paper  and  Twine. 

54 —  Graduated  Tariff  Card. 

55 —  Transfer  Card. 

56 —  Exchange-Order  Tariff. 


57 —  Standing-Reward  Posters. 

58—  Letter  Dep't  Circular. 

59—  Poster  Rel.  to  Valuable  Letters. 

60 —  Wax. 

61 —  Sign. 

62 —  Dextrine  (paste  powder). 

63 —  Frank  (Letter)  Business  Poster. 

64 —  Stitching  Needles — for  Coin  and 

Currency. 


4.  Agents  are  not  allowed  to  purchase  supplies  on  Company's 
account  until  authority  has  been  asked  and  granted. 

5.  Care  and  economy  in  the  use  of  books,  blanks,  stationery, 
etc.,  is  enjoined  on  all  employes. 


Messenger's  Outfit. 

6.  The  outfit  furnished  a  Messenger  is  as  follows  : 


Books. 

1 —  Record  of  W-B's  Forwarded. 

2 —  Register  of  W-B's  Carried. 

3 —  Forwarding  Receipt  Book. 

4 —  Delivery  Book. 

5 —  Abstract  Book. 

6—  Tally  Book. 

7 —  Instruction  Book. 

8—  Tariff  Book. 

9, — Express  Directory. 

Blanks. 

10 —  Way-bills. 

11 —  Abstracts. 

12 —  Treasure  Reports. 

13 —  Letter  and  Note  Paper. 


14 —  Requisitions. 

Sundries. 

15 —  Graduated  Tariffs. 

16 —  Red  Stickers. 

17—  C.O.D.  Slickers. 

18 —  Tags — Freight  and  Money. 

19 —  Rubber  Stamp. 

20 —  Pencils. 

21 —  Twine. 

22 —  Mucilage. 

23 —  Pens  and  Penholders. 

24 —  Ink. 

25—  Kit-Bag. 

26 —  List  of  Offices  and  Agents. 

27 —  Hatchet. 

28—  Box-Hook. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Co's  Express.  45 


CORRESPONDENCE. 


1.  All  communications  relating  to  the  business  of  the  Company 
must  be  promptly  answered,  and  copies  kept  of  important  letters. 

2.  Only  one  subject  should  be  treated  of  in  each  letter,  and  that 
briefly,  but  clearly. 

3.  Upon  all  questions  of  a  general  character,  or  of  special  im- 
portance, the  General  Superintendent  must  be  addressed. 

4.  Upon  subjects  relating  to  the  ordinary  routine  of  business,  the 
Division  Superintendent  must  be  addressed. 

5.  Upon  matters  relating  to  the  settlement  of  the  Abstract  and 
Statement,  the  Secretary  must  be  addressed. 

6.  Upon  those  relating  to  errors  in  accounts,  after  settlement  with 
the  Secretary,  the  Auditor  must  be  addressed. 

7.  All  Circulars,  Special  Rate  Notices,  Changes  in  Tariffs,  etc., 
must  be  preserved.  For  this  purpose  a  suitable  book  can  be  made 
of  wrapping  paper. 

8.  Correspondence  relating  to  return  of  packages,  must  be  pre- 
served ;  that  relating  to  Collections,  C.  O.  D.'s  or  Commissions, 
must  be  kept  in  the  official  envelope  ;  only  copies  of  special  orders 
are  to  be  returned  in  the  envelope ;  the  originals  to  be  filed. 

9.  All  correspondence,  particularly  answers  upon  circulars, 

must  bear  the  name  of  the  office  and  date — the  month  must  be 
written  (not  indicated  by  figures) — and  all  communications  must  be 
signed  with  the  name  of  the  agent,  thus  : 


,  Agent. 
and  not  "Agent  W.  F.  &  Co."  (omitting  name),  or  "Wells,  Fargo 
&  Co.,  per  Agent." 

Telegraphing. 

10.  The  telegraph,  whether  under  free  privilege  or  at  the  Company's 
cost,  must  be  used  only  on  urgent  business.  Information  concern- 
ing fires,  robberies,  suits-at-law,  loss  or  delay  of  money  packages,  and 
similar  matters  affecting  the  Company's  interests,  must,  however,  be 
promptly  telegraphed  to  the  General  or  Division  Superintendent. 

11.  Telegrams  must  not  be  sent  when  letters  will  answer  the  pur- 
pose. 

12.  Telegrams  sent  for  the  benefit  of,  or  by  request  of  customers, 
must  be  at  their  expense. 


4.6  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


REPORTS. 


1 .  A  report  of  the  business  of  each  office  must  be  made  on  the 
Monthly  Report  blank,  by  the  7th  of  each  month,  and  forwarded  to 
the  Division  Superintendent. 

2.  Reports  of  Telegraphic  Transfers  sold  must  be  sent  to  the 
Division  Superintendent  on  the  proper  blank,  at  the  close  of  each 
month. 

3.  At  the  end  of  each  half  year,  a  list  of  all  packages,  collec- 
tions, C.  O.  D's.,  and  money  parcels,  accumulated,  must  be  made 
on  the  regular  O.  H.  Report  blank.  The  list  (not  the  packages) 
must  be  forwarded  to  the  Division  Superintendent.  A  copy  of  the 
Report  must  be  retained,  for  reference. 

4.  For  treatment  of  O.  H.  in  monthly  settlement,  see  page  40, 
par.  16. 

5.  Reports  of  money,  bullion  or  gold  dust  forwarded,  must  be 
made  monthly  to  the  Auditor,  on  the  Treasure  Report  blanks  fur- 
nished for  that  purpose. 

6.  Reports  of  freight  forwarded  must  be  made  to  the  Auditor, 
as  indicated  on  the  blanks  furnished  for  that  purpose. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express.  47 


ROBBERIES. 


1 .  When  the  Company  suffers  a  loss  by  robbery,  the  agent  at  or 
nearest  the  point,  and  the  agent  at  the  nearest  county-seat,  will 
endeavor  to  enlist  the  efforts  of  local  officers  and  citizens  in  capturing 
the  robbers.  When  necessary,  they  will  furnish  officers  with  money  for 
expenses,  to  be  deducted,  if  successful,  from  the  reward.  The  tele- 
graph and  other  facilities  may  be  freely  used,  and  the  General  or 
Division  Superintendent  promptly  and  fully  advised  of  the  loss  in- 
curred, and  of  action  taken.  Copies  of  way-bills  which  were  in  the 
Express  robbed  must  be  forwarded  to  the  Division  Superintendent. 

2.  The  Company  offers  a  standing  reward  of  $300  for  the  arrest 
and  conviction  of  each  person  engaged  in  robbing  the  Express  on 
the  public  highway,  and  will  always  aid  in  the  prosecution  of  such 
criminals. 

3.  A  reward  of  25%  is  usually  paid  for  Treasure  recovered. 

4.  All  offices  are  furnished  with  the  Company's  Reward  posters. 

Special  Officers. 

5.  Special  Officers  are  employed  for  the  detection  and  prosecu- 
tion of  highwaymen,  or  other  offenders.  They  must  be  prompt  and 
diligent,  reporting  the  particulars  of  any  robbery,  the  action  taken  by 
them,  and  their  movements  generally,  to  the  General  and  Division 
Superintendent. 

6.  They  must  be  cautious  in  making  arrests,  and  never  commit 
themselves  to  any  course  or  promise  inimical  to  the  Company's  repu- 
tation or  welfare. 

7.  Agents  and  employe's  must  render  any  assistance  Special  Offi- 
cers require,  and  in  robbery  cases  will  consult  with,  and  be  governed 
by  their  advice  and  instructions. 

Guard  Service  and  Fire-arms. 

8.  Guards  and  Messengers  will  be  furnished  with  suitable  fire- 
arms, if  needed,  by  requisition  on  the  Stationery  and  Supply  De- 
partment, San  Francisco.  The  value  of  same  will  be  expensed 
for,  but  will  be  refunded  upon  return  of  the  arms. 


48  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


DIVISION  SUPERINTENDENTS. 


1.  Division  Superintendents  aie  appointed  by,  and  are  subject 
to  the  orders  of  the  General  Superintendent,  and  will  keep  him  ad- 
vised of  their  movements  when  absent  from  their  headquarters. 

2.  They  will  refer  all  matters  of  importance,  contracts,  special 
rates,  the  employment  and  direction  of  men,  etc,  to  the  General 
Superintendent. 

3.  They  will  exercise  a  direct  supervision  of  the  agencies  and 
messengers  in  their  respective  Divisions,  assisted  by  Route  Agents, 
whose  movements  they  will  direct,  when  necessary. 

4.  They  will  visit  offices  as  often  as  practicable,  and  see  that  the 
Company's  business  is  properly  conducted,  and  that  no  unneces- 
sary help  is  employed,  or  expenses  incurred. 

5.  They  will  see  that  no  unworthy  persons  are  retained  in  the 
serv  ice,  and  that  old  employes  of  good  record  are  recommended  for 
promotion  when  opportunity  offers. 

6.  They  must  endeavor,  in  the  employment  of  new  men,  to 
engage  only  those  of  approved  good  character. 

7.  In  case  of  the  incapacity  or  misconduct  of  an  employe,  they 
will  confer  with  the  General  Superintendent  before  acting.  In  aggra- 
vated cases,  they  may  suspend  or  discharge  employe's  at  once,  and 
report  subsequently. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express.  49 


ROUTE  AGENTS. 

1.  Route  Agents  are  subject  to  the  orders  of  the  General  and 
Division  Superintendents,  to  whom  they  will  report  as  often  as  prac- 
ticable. 

2.  They  must  see,  as  often  as  possible,  agents  and  messengers 
on  routes  assigned  to  them,  giving  them  necessary  assistance  and 
instruction ;  remaining  with  a  new  agent  or  messenger  until  he  is 
familiar  with  his  duties. 

3.  They  must  "Check  up"  offices  as  frequently  as  possible. 

4.  In  opening  a  new  office,  they  must  give  explicit  instructions 
for  making  charges  as  per  Classification  Card,  way-billing,  making 
Abstract  and  Statement,  etc.  "  Example"  Way-Bills,  Abstracts  and 
Statements,  will  usually  give  a  clear  insight  to  the  business.  They 
must  explain  the  use  of  each  book,  blank,  etc. 

5.  In  transferring  offices  and  property  from  one  agent  to  another, 
inventories  and  receipts  must  be  made  in  triplicate,  as  instructed  in 
page  12,  par.  26. 

6.  They  must  see  that  goods  are  delivered  promptly  j  that  De- 
livery Books,  O.  H.,  Collection  and  Commission  Registers  are 
properly  kept,  and  that  instructions  relating  to  Collections  and 
C.  O.  D.'s  are  observed. 

7.  They  must  see  that  care  is  taken  of  the  property  of  the  Com- 
pany;  that  messengers  check  the  entries  on  way-bills,  "In"  and 
"Out;"  take  receipts  for  all  way-bills  delivered,  and  give  receipts  for 
all  received. 

8.  They  must  see  that  agents  and  messengers  are  careful  in  hand- 
ling packages  and  money,  and  that  safes  are  kept  locked  when  not 
in  use. 

9.  They  must  see  that  messengers  are  courteous  in  their  inter- 
course with  agents  and  others. 

10.  They  must  keep  a  correct  account  of  all  keys,  etc.,  in  pos- 
session of  messengers,  and  in  case  of  dismissals  and  resignations  see 
that  all  are  returned  to  the  Company. 

11.  They  must  see  that  chain  fasteners  are  supplied  to  car  doors 
whenever  practicable,  and  that  everything  needed  for  the  safety  of 
the  Company,  or  to  facilitate  its  business,  is  furnished  offices  and 
messengers. 

12.  They  must  carefully  acquaint  themselves  with  all  rules  and 
instructions  of  the  Company,  and  see  that  they  are  obeyed,  reporting 
delinquents  to  the  General  or  Division  Superintendent. 


50  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


MESSENGERS. 


1.  The  following  instructions  are  given  to  secure  the  Company 
and  Messengers  against  loss,  and  will  be  rigidly  enforced. 

2.  Messengers  must  report  for  duty  at  offices  in  ample  time 
to  transact  business  without  haste  or  confusion. 

3.  Messengers  must  not  employ  substitutes  or  leave  their  reg- 
ular runs  without  permission  from  the  General  or  Division  Superin- 
tendent, or  Route  Agent. 

4.  Messengers  at  terminal  offices  must  keep  the  agent  informed 
of  their  places  of  residence  or  resort,  so  that  they  may  be  speedily 
summoned. 

5.  At  the  end  of  their  routes  they  will  be  subject  to  the  agent's 
orders. 

6.  They  must  show  proper  respect  to  all  persons,  particularly 
to  those  connected  with  routes  on  which  they  are  running. 

7.  When  on  cars  or  boats,  they  will  be  subject  to  the  rules  gov- 
erning employes  of  the  road  or  boat  on  which  they  are  traveling. 

8.  They  must  not  drink  intoxicating  liquor  of  any  kind  while 
on  duty. 

9.  They  must  never  receive  from  strangers,  cigars,  tobacco  or 
anything  by  which  they  might  be  drugged. 

10.  They  must  never  show  or  mention  the  contents  of  their 

safes. 

11.  They  must  not  engage  in  any  business  that  will  interfere  with 

their  duties  to  the  Company. 

12.  When  Messengers  have  cars  or  apartments  for  their  ex- 
clusive use,  they  must  allow  no  person  to  ride  therein  except  by 
consent  of  the  General  or  Division  Superintendent,  or  Route  Agent. 

13.  Before  going  to  meals,  Messengers  must  examine  their  safes 
and  see  that  they  are  locked,  observing  condition  of  contents. 
Agents  will  assume  charge  during  such  absence. 

14.  Safes  must  not  be  left  unlocked  longer  than  necessary,  even 
when  Messengers  are  alone ;  and  money  or  valuables  must  never  be 
lost  sight  of. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express.  51 


15.  After  removing  the  key,  the  lock  should  always  be  tested  by 
trying  the  lid.    Keys  must  never  be  left  in  safes  not  in  actual  use. 

16.  Great  care  must  be  taken  of  safe  keys,  and  they  must  never 
be  allowed  to  go  out  of  the  Messenger's  possession,  except  to 
those  authorized  to  receive  them. 

17.  In  going  to  and  from  depots,  Messengers  must  accompany 
their  safes  or  treasure  boxes — never  leaving  them  out  of  sight  or 
reach ;  and  money  must  never  be  carried  to  and  from  depots  and 
offices  except  in  safes  or  treasure  boxes ;  and  hand  safes  or  treasure 
boxes  must  never  be  left  in  cars  at  end  of  routes. 

18.  Messengers  arriving  at  offices  must  not  leave  their  safes  or 
treasure  boxes  until  their  money  and  valuables  are  checked  in  by 
the  person  designated  for  that  duty. 

19.  When  chain  fasteners  are  not  affixed  to  the  doors  of  cars  used 
solely  for  the  Company's  business,  Messengers  must  report  the  fact 
to  the  Division  Superintendent,  or  Route  Agent.  When  alone  in  the 
car,  whether  in  motion  or  at  a  station  where  there  is  no  agent, 
a  Messenger  must  never  open  the  door  unless  the  fastener  is  applied. 

20.  When  an  accident  happens  to  a  train,  likely  to  prevent  con- 
nections, the  Messenger  must,  at  the  first  opportunity,  telegraph  the 
Division  Superintendent,  Route  Agent,  and  agent  at  connecting 
point,  stating  the  facts  briefly.  If  the  accident  endangers  his 
safe  or  goods,  he  must  also  telegraph  the  nearest  office. 

21.  Great  care  must  be  taken  to  guard  cars  against  fire.  Should 
a  fire  occur,  the  safe  must  be  secured  first,  and  then  the  packages. 
If  necessary,  the  car  must  be  cut  away  and  goods  sacrificed  to  get 
out  the  safe. 

22.  Should  there  be  difficulty  in  withdrawing  the  safe  on  account 
of  heat,  it  must  be  left  until  cool,  every  means  being  used  to  cool  it 
as  rapidly  as  possible.  It  must  then  be  opened  in  the  presence  of 
some  person  authorized  by  the  Company.  Care  must  be  taken  that 
it  is  not  overturned,  or  handled  in  such  a  manner  as  to  disturb  its 
contents. 

23.  When  Express  goods  are  carried  in  freight  cars  and  Messen- 
gers are  authorized  to  ride  in  another  part  of  the  train,  the  condi- 
tion of  the  car  or  cars  should  be  examined  by  the  Messenger  at 
every  stopping  place. 

24.  When  approaching  a  station  all  the  doors  of  the  car  must  be 
securely  fastened,  except  the  one  through  which  business  is  trans- 
acted, and  as  soon  as  completed,  that  door  must  also  be  closed  and 
fastened,  until  the  train  is  under  sufficient  motion  to  prevent  en- 
trance. 


52  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


25.  A  Messenger  must  keep  a  strict  watch  of  the  movements  of 
trains  while  at  stations,  and  should  an  attempt  be  made  to  run  off 
the  engine  and  Express  car,  he  will  lock  and  throw  out  his  safe 
at  once,  and  get  out  of  the  car,  if  possible. 

26.  In  case  a  Messenger  on  a  stage  route  leaves  the  coach,  for 
meals,  etc,  he  must  retain  possession  of  his  fire-arms. 

27.  Messengers  on  all  important  routes  are  required  to  travel 
armed  for  defense,  in  case  of  attack.  Arms  and  ammunition  can  be 
procured  by  requisition. 

28.  Vigilance  must  be  exercised  by  Messengers  and  others  when 
engaged  in  handling  and  transferring  money  and  valuables  on  trains 
and  at  depots,  and  no  large  sums  must  be  transferred  except  by 
two  or  more  employes,  well  armed. 

29.  A  Messenger  must  enter  his  name  and  check  mark  on 
every  way-bill  carried ;  and  place  the  check  mark — using  an 
aniline  pencil — opposite  each  entry.  Way-bills  delivered  to  agents 
and  others  en  route  must  show  his  out  check  mark,  as  evidence 
that  the  packages  were  left  with  the  way-bills. 

30.  Out  Checking  must  not  be  done,  when  it  can  be  avoided, 
until  after  passing  the  station  preceding  the  one  where  matter  is  to 
be  delivered. 

31.  Messengers  must  be  sure  that  they  receive  all  matter  entered 
on  way-bills  transferred  to  them,  and  not  rely  on  the  representations 
of  agents  or  clerks. 

32.  When  memorandum  way-bills  are  received,  Messengers  will 
enter  them  on  the  Way-bill  Register,  taking  receipt  in  the  usual  form. 

33.  All  matter  received,  without  a  memorandum  way-bill — the 
regular  way-bill  ahead  or  to  follow — must  be  noted  in  the  Way-Bill 
Register,  and  a  memorandum  way-bill  made  for  same.  Regular 
way  bills  must  be  made  for  money  packages  separated  from  original 
way-bills. 

34.  All  way-bills  carried  by  Messengers  must  be  entered  on  the 
Way-Bill  Register,  and  the  receipt  of  the  person  to  whom  delivered 
must  be  taken  thereon. 

35.  Messengers  must  receive  and  way-bill  any  matter  delivered 
at  car  or  depot  that  has  not  been  regularly  way-billed  at  an  office. 

36.  They  must  refuse  all  money  packages  not  properly  sealed. 
(See  instructions  in  reference  to  seals,  pages  20  and  21.) 

37.  In  receiving  fruit  or  vegetables,  they  must  see  that  packages 
are  in  good  order,  and  will  be  held  responsible  for  them  while  in 
their  possession. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express.  53 


38.  They  must  refuse  to  receive  such  matter,  in  bad  condition, 
unless  the  employe"  delivering  notes  "Bad  Order"  on  way-bill,  signing 
his  name  thereto. 

39.  They  must  not,  under  any  circumstances,  sign  any  but  the 
printed  receipt  of  the  Company. 

40.  Matter  destined  to  a  place  en  route  where  there  is  no 
office,  must  be  billed  to  the  office  at  the  end  of  the  route,  and  the 
Messenger  must  account  to  that  office  for  collect  charges. 

41.  Tariffs  and  instructions  will  be  furnished  Messengers  by  the 
Division  Superintendent,  or  Route  Agent. 

42.  When  matter  is  billed  to  the  wrong  office,  the  Messenger 
discovering  the  error  must  make  a  duplicate  way-bill  of  same  num- 
ber and  date,  to  the  proper  office,  noting  on  same :     "  Taken 

from  Way-Bill  to  ,  No.  ,  Date  ,"  and  allow 

original  way-bill  to  go  to  its  destination,  with  notation  :  "Made 
Way-Bill  same  No.  and  Date  to  ,"  signing  his  name  thereto. 

43.  If  a  money  shipment  is  discovered  in  bad  order,  Messen- 
gers must  deliver  the  same  to  the  office  at  end  of  their  route,  see 
it  opened  and  contents  counted  and  re-enclosed  in  proper  shape  ;  if 
same  is  destined  to  an  intermediate  point,  notation  must  be  made  on 
the  way-bill. 

44.  If  matter  is  checked  in  "  Bad  Order,"  particulars  must  be 
noted  on  way-bills,  and  to  any  notations  of  "  Short,"  "  Bad  Order," 
etc.,  a  Messenger  must  sign  his  full  name  and  route.  A  complete 
record  must  also  be  made  in  his  Way-Bill  Register. 

45.  If  goods  are  injured  by  accident  while  in  a  Messenger's 
charge,  he  must  note  the  fact  on  way-bill,  and  report  the  same  to 
the  Division  Superintendent. 

46.  Messengers  will  be  held  responsible  for  loss  or  damage  from 
carrying  matter  beyond  destination. 

47.  They  will  make  way-bills,  and  render  abstracts  in  the  same 
manner  as  an  office. 

48.  Freight  reports  must  be  made  from  regular  way-bills  only. 

49.  Messengers  must  enter  on  way-bills  the  name  of  the  station 
at  which  they  receive  matter. 

50.  A  label  with  the  Messenger's  name  thereon  must  be  pasted  on 
every  package  billed  by  him. 

51.  Messengers  will  always  take  receipts  for  matter  delivered  en 
route.  Care  must  be  taken  in  delivering  matter  to  strangers  ;  they 
must  be  identified  by  some  known  person,  who  must  be  required 
to  sign  the  receipt  with  the  consignee. 


5^  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


52.  Messengers  must  deliver  letters  promptly,  and  keep  a  supply 
of  "  Franks  "  on  hand. 

53.  All  circulars  must  be  preserved  for  reference. 

54.  Books,  blanks,  etc.,  will  be  furnished  upon  application.  They 
must  be  kept  clean  and  not  wasted. 

55.  Messengers  must  return  all  books  that  are  filled,  to  terminal 
office  of  their  routes. 

56.  Messengers  are  required  to  acquaint  themselves  with  all  rules 

in  this  book. 


Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express.  55 


DRIVERS. 


1 .  In  their  calls,  Drivers  receiving  goods  to  be  forwarded  must 
see  that  they  are  secure,  properly  marked  and  valued,  and  that  the 
marks  and  valuation  thereon  are  specified  in,  and  correspond  with 
the  receipt  given. 

2.  In  receipting  foraC.O.D.  they  must  see  that  the  package  is  so 
marked,  with  the  amount  to  be  collected  in  legible  figures,  and  be 
sure  they  get  the  bill,  or  invoice,  that  should  accompany  it.  On 
arriving  at  the  office  all  C.O.D.  bills  must  be  delivered  to  the  proper 
clerk. 

3.  Drivers  must  not  receive  money  packages  for  ship- 
ment. 

4.  In  receipting  for  glass  and  fragile  articles  taken  at  "Owner's 
Risk,"  it  must  be  so  written  or  stamped  across  the  face  of  receipt. 

5.  Packages  insecurely  done  up  must  not  be  received. 

6.  Large  packages  of  dry  goods  or  articles  of  similar  nature,  not 
boxed,  must  be  wrapped  in  oilcloth. 

7.  Drivers  will  be  held  responsible  for  all  matter  they  receipt  for. 

8.  Fast  driving  (except  when  necessary  to  connect  with  trains  or 
steamers)  is  strictly  prohibited. 

9.  Drivers  must  never  allow  persons  other  than  employes  of  the 
Company  to  ride  on  their  wagons. 

10.  Helpers  must  ride  so  as  to  have  full  view  of  the  contents 
of  wagon.  Money,  specie,  and  other  valuable  packages  must  be 
kept  in  a  safe  or  trunk,  constantly  in  sight. 

11.  When  in  motion,  if  practicable,  tail-boards  of  wagons  must  be 
closed. 

12.  When  but  few  articles  are  in  a  wagon  they  must  be  placed 
forward — never  near  the  tail-board. 

13.  Goods  must  be  handled  with  care,  particularly  in  loading  and 
unloading. 

14t.  Delivery  Books  must  be  checked  before  leaving  the  office. 

15 .  Drivers  must  try  to  find  consignees.  If  not  at  place  addressed, 
they  must  endeavor  to  ascertain  where  removed  to,  and  deliver  if 
distance  is  not  too  great. 


56  Wells,  Fargo  &  Cos  Express. 


16.  Nothing  must  be  delivered  without  being  receipted  for,  either 
by  the  party  to  whom  article  is  addressed,  or  by  some  person  belong- 
ing on  the  premises,  of  proper  age  and  discretion.  Money  or  valu- 
able packages  must  not  be  delivered,  except  to  consignee,  or  some 
one  authorized  to  sign.  Receipts  must  be  signed  in  ink  or 
with  aniline  pencil. 

17.  In  delivering  a  package  of  money  sealed  with  the  "Office" 
seal  of  the  Company,  it  must  be  opened  in  presence  of  the  con- 
signee, and  contents  counted.  In  case  of  shortage,  or  counterfeit 
or  uncurrent  money,  the  driver  must  refer  consignee  to  the  office  for 
adjustment.    In  opening  such  packages,  the  Seal  must  never  be 

broken. 

18.  In  delivering  money  sealed  with  the  "  Public  "  seal  of  an 
office,  or  with  Shipper's  private  seal,  the  package  must  be  handed 
intact  to  the  consignee,  and  his  receipt  taken  for  a  sealed  package. 
In  no  case  must  the  package  be  opened  and  contents  counted  by  the 
driver. 

19.  In  delivering  to  other  than  regular  customers,  the  street  and 
number  must  be  entered  in  Delivery  Book. 

20.  When  consignee  of  a  valuable  package  is  unknown,  he  must 
be  identified  by  some  known  and  responsible  person,  who  must  sign 
with  the  consignee  upon  the  Delivery  Book. 

21.  Articles  addressed  to  the  "Care  of"  an  individual  or  com- 
pany, must  be  delivered  to  that  individual  or  company,  or  on  their 
order,  and  not  to  the  person  addressed.    Orders  must  be  preserved. 

22.  Charges  must  be  collected  as  entered  in  the  Delivery  Book. 
If  the  amount  is  disputed,  consignee  must  be  referred  to  the  agent. 
If  payment  of  charges  is  refused,  the  goods  must  be  brought  back  to 
the  office. 

23.  If  articles  are  refused,  Drivers  will  ascertain  from  consignee 
the  shipper's  name  and  address,  and  endorse  the  same  on  shipment, 
also  the  reasons  for  refusal,  reporting  the  facts  to  agent  on  return  to 
the  office. 

24.  Drivers  must  be  obliging  and  courteous.  If  requested  to 
wait  for  packages  to  be  opened,  they  must  explain  that  their  time 
will  not  permit,  and  that  if  there  is  anything  wrong  it  can  be  reported 
to  the  agent. 

25.  Drivers  and  Helpers  must  pay  due  regard  to  their  personal 
appearance,  and  also  see  that  their  horses,  harness  and  wagons  are 
always  clean  and  in  good  order. 


% 


