-----BEGIN PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 TwKeh4tzy4LIrj85WJk1wkRh7BUZG4gV3DcZ2N0/2cryEoSdwqmNgaxrczYTbzjH
 ITsppM58RbSmTui3DF0kuw==

<SEC-DOCUMENT>0000950131-97-002198.txt : 19970329
<SEC-HEADER>0000950131-97-002198.hdr.sgml : 19970329
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950131-97-002198
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		7
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	19961231
FILED AS OF DATE:		19970328
SROS:			NYSE

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			HUMANA INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000049071
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS [6324]
		IRS NUMBER:				610647538
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05975
		FILM NUMBER:		97568161

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		500 W MAIN ST
		CITY:			LOUISVILLE
		STATE:			KY
		ZIP:			40202
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5025803708

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	EXTENDICARE INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19740404

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	HERITAGE HOUSE OF AMERICA INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19671129
</SEC-HEADER>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>10-K
<SEQUENCE>1
<DESCRIPTION>FORM 10-K DATED 12/31/96
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(MARK ONE)
   [X]       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
                                      OR
 
   [_]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE
               SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
 
                      FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM  TO
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-5975
 
                                  HUMANA INC.
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
               DELAWARE                              61-0647538
       (STATE OF INCORPORATION)                   (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
                                               IDENTIFICATION NUMBER)
 
         500 WEST MAIN STREET                           40202
         LOUISVILLE, KENTUCKY                         (ZIP CODE)
    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE
               OFFICES)
 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: 502-580-1000
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                        NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
              TITLE OF EACH CLASS                        ON WHICH REGISTERED
              -------------------                       ---------------------
  <S>                                                  <C>
       Common Stock, $.16 2/3 par value                New York Stock Exchange
</TABLE>
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
 
                                     NONE
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of the Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in the Registrant's definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X]  No [_]
 
  The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant as of February 28, 1997, was $2,978,429,730 calculated using the
average price on such date of $19.5625. The number of shares outstanding of
the Registrant's Common Stock as of February 28, 1997, was 162,716,329.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
  Part II and portions of Part IV incorporate herein by reference the
Registrant's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders; Part III incorporates herein
by reference portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement filed pursuant to
Regulation 14A covering the Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be
held May 8, 1997.
 
  The Exhibit Index begins on page 15.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
  Humana Inc. is a Delaware corporation organized in 1961. Its principal
executive offices are located at 500 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky
40202 and its telephone number at that address is (502) 580-1000. As used
herein, the terms "the Company" or "Humana" include Humana Inc. and its
subsidiaries. This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains both historical and
forward-looking information. The forward-looking statements may be
significantly impacted by risks and uncertainties and are made pursuant to the
safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995. There can be no assurance that anticipated future results will be
achieved because actual results may differ materially from those projected in
the forward-looking statements. Readers are cautioned that a number of
factors, which are described herein, could adversely affect the Company's
ability to obtain these results, including the effects of either federal or
state health care reform or other legislation, renewal of the Company's
Medicare risk contracts with the federal government, the renewal of the
Company's CHAMPUS contract with the federal government, and the effects of
other general business conditions, including but not limited to, government
regulation, competition, premium rate changes, retrospective premium
adjustments relating to federal government contracts, medical cost trends,
changes in Commercial and Medicare risk membership, capital requirements,
general economic conditions, and the retention of key employees. In addition,
past financial performance is not necessarily a reliable indicator of future
performance and investors should not use historical performance to anticipate
results or future period trends.
 
  Since 1983, the Company has offered managed health care products that
integrate medical management with the delivery of health care services through
a network of providers. This network of providers may share financial risk or
have incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective
manner. These products are marketed primarily through health maintenance
organizations ("HMOs") and preferred provider organizations ("PPOs") that
encourage or require the use of contracting providers. HMOs and PPOs control
health care costs by various means, including pre-admission approval for
hospital inpatient services and pre-authorization of outpatient surgical
procedures. The Company also offers various specialty and administrative
service products including dental, group life, workers' compensation, and
pharmacy benefit management services.
 
  The Company's HMO and PPO products are marketed primarily to employer and
other groups ("Commercial") as well as Medicare and Medicaid-eligible
individuals. The Company's Commercial products are licensed in 47 states and
the District of Columbia. At December 31, 1996, the Company had a total of
2,814,800 fully insured Commercial customers, with an average group size of 24
members. The products marketed to Medicare-eligible individuals are either HMO
products ("Medicare risk") or indemnity insurance policies that supplement
Medicare benefits ("Medicare supplement"). The Medicare risk product provides
managed care services that include all Medicare benefits and, in certain
circumstances, additional managed care services. At December 31, 1996, the
Company had 364,500 Medicare risk members and 97,700 Medicare supplement
members. The Company also offers administrative services ("ASO") to employers
who self-insure their employee health benefits. At December 31, 1996, the
Company provided claims processing, utilization review and other
administrative services to 471,000 ASO members.
 
  On October 11, 1995, the Company acquired EMPHESYS Financial Group, Inc.
("EMPHESYS") for a total purchase price of approximately $650 million. The
purchase was funded through available cash of $400 million and bank borrowings
of $250 million. EMPHESYS was a leading provider of a broad range of PPO and
specialty products to small businesses. The medical loss and administrative
cost ratios relating to the EMPHESYS business tend to be different from
Humana's because of variances in the nature of each entity's products,
customer base and the manner in which products and services are distributed to
customers, as more fully described in Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in the Company's 1996
Annual Report to Stockholders.
 
  On July 1, 1996, the Company began providing managed health care services to
approximately 1.1 million eligible beneficiaries under a potential five-year
contract (a one-year contract renewable annually at the government's option
for up to four additional years) with the United States Department of Defense
under the
 
                                       1
<PAGE>
 
Civilian Health and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services ("CHAMPUS").
Under the CHAMPUS contract, the Company provides managed care services to the
beneficiaries of active military personnel and retired military personnel and
their beneficiaries located in the southeastern United States. The Company has
subcontracted with third parties to provide certain administration and
specialty services under the contract. Three health benefit options are
available to CHAMPUS beneficiaries. In addition to a traditional indemnity
option, participants may enroll in an HMO-like point-of-service plan or take
advantage of reduced copayments by using a network of preferred providers.
 
  On January 31, 1997, the Company completed the sale of its Washington, D.C.,
health plan to Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of the Mid-Atlantic States, Inc.
On January 16, 1997, the Company signed a definitive agreement to sell its
Alabama operations to PrimeHealth of Alabama, Inc. The Alabama sale excludes
the Company's small group business and the Company's Alabama CHAMPUS
operations. These transactions will not have a material impact on the Company's
financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
COMMERCIAL PRODUCTS
 
 HMOs
 
  An HMO provides prepaid health care services to its members through primary
care and specialty physicians employed by the HMO at facilities owned by the
HMO, and/or through a network of independent primary care and specialty
physicians and other health care providers who contract with the HMO to furnish
such services. Primary care physicians generally include internists, family
practitioners and pediatricians. Generally, access to specialty physicians and
other health care providers must be approved by the member's primary care
physician. These other health care providers include, among others, hospitals,
nursing homes, home health agencies, pharmacies, mental health and substance
abuse centers, diagnostic centers, optometrists, outpatient surgery centers,
dentists, urgent care centers, and durable medical equipment suppliers. Because
access to these other health care providers must be approved by the primary
care physician, the HMO product is the most restrictive form of managed care.
 
  At December 31, 1996, the Company owned and operated 18 HMOs, which
contracted with approximately 37,700 physicians (including approximately 9,100
primary care physicians) and approximately 600 hospitals. In addition, the
Company had approximately 2,800 contracts with other providers to provide
services to HMO members. The Company also employed approximately 500 physicians
in its staff model HMOs at December 31, 1996.
 
  An HMO member, typically through the member's employer, pays a monthly fee
which generally covers, with minimal copayments, health care services received
from or approved by the member's primary care physician. For the year ended
December 31, 1996, Commercial HMO premium revenues totaled approximately $1.8
billion or 27 percent of the Company's total premium revenues. Approximately
$248 million of the Company's Commercial premium revenues for the year ended
December 31, 1996, were derived from contracts with the United States Office of
Personnel Management ("OPM"), under which the Company provides health care
benefits to approximately 165,000 federal civilian employees and their
dependents. Pursuant to these contracts, payments made by OPM may be
retrospectively adjusted downward by OPM if an audit discloses that a
comparable product was offered by the Company to a similar size subscriber
group at a lower premium rate than that offered to OPM. Management believes
that any retrospective adjustments as a result of OPM audits will not have a
material impact on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or
cash flows. The Company's Washington, D.C., health plan, which was sold
effective January 31, 1997, included approximately 45,000 OPM members at
December 31, 1996, and premium revenues from these OPM contracts totaled
approximately $71 million for the year ended December 31, 1996.
 
 PPOs
 
  PPO products include many elements of managed health care. PPOs are also
similar to traditional health insurance because they provide a member with the
freedom to choose a physician or other health care provider. In a PPO, the
member is encouraged, through financial incentives, to use participating health
care providers which have contracted with the PPO to provide services at
favorable rates. In the event a member chooses not to use a participating
health care provider, the member may be required to pay a greater portion of
the provider's fees.
 
                                       2
<PAGE>
 
  At December 31, 1996, approximately 37,800 physicians and approximately 630
hospitals contracted directly with the Company to provide services to PPO
members. The Company also had approximately 3,200 contracts (including certain
contracts which also service the Company's HMOs) with other providers to
provide services to PPO members. In addition, the Company had access to 21
leased provider networks throughout the country which provided services to
approximately 75 percent of EMPHESYS' PPO membership.
 
  For the year ended December 31, 1996, Commercial PPO premium revenues
totaled approximately $2.3 billion or 34 percent of the Company's total
premium revenues. During 1996, Commercial PPO premiums increased approximately
$1.4 billion, primarily as a result of the acquisition of EMPHESYS in the
fourth quarter of 1995.
 
  Over the previous four years, changes in the Company's Commercial premium
rates have ranged between an approximate 7 percent increase for the year ended
December 31, 1993, to a 0.6 percent decrease for the year ended December 31,
1996. The Company expects that 1997 Commercial premium rates will increase
approximately 2 to 3 percent from 1996 levels.
 
MEDICARE PRODUCTS
 
  Medicare is a federal program that provides persons age 65 and over and some
disabled persons certain hospital and medical insurance benefits, which
include hospitalization benefits for up to 90 days per incident of illness
plus a lifetime reserve aggregating 60 days. Each Medicare-eligible individual
is entitled to receive inpatient hospital care ("Part A") without the payment
of any premium, but is required to pay a premium to the federal government,
which is adjusted annually, to be eligible for physician care and other
services ("Part B").
 
  Even though participating in both Part A and Part B of the traditional
Medicare program, beneficiaries are still required to pay certain deductible
and coinsurance amounts. They may, if they choose, supplement their Medicare
coverage by purchasing Medicare supplement policies which pay these
deductibles and coinsurance amounts. Many of these policies also cover other
services (such as prescription drugs) which are not included in Medicare
coverage.
 
  Certain managed care companies which operate HMOs contract with the federal
government's Health Care Financing Administration ("HCFA") to provide medical
benefits to Medicare-eligible individuals residing in the geographic areas in
which their HMOs operate in exchange for a fixed monthly payment per member
from HCFA. Individuals who elect to participate in these Medicare risk
programs are relieved of the obligation to pay some or all of the deductible
or coinsurance amounts but are generally required to use exclusively the
services provided by the HMO and are required to pay a Part B premium to the
Medicare program. The enrollee pays the HMO a premium only in cases where the
HMO provides additional benefits and where competitive market conditions
permit.
 
 Medicare Risk
 
  A Medicare risk product involves a contract between an HMO and HCFA pursuant
to which HCFA makes a fixed monthly payment to the HMO on behalf of each
Medicare-eligible individual who chooses to enroll for coverage in the HMO.
Membership may be terminated by the member upon 30 days' notice. The fixed
monthly payment is determined and adjusted annually by HCFA, and takes into
account, among other things, the cost of providing medical care in the
geographic area where the member resides.
 
  The Company markets a variety of Medicare risk HMO products. All of these
products provide an enrolled individual with all of the benefits covered by
the Medicare program but relieve the enrolled individual of the obligation to
pay deductibles and coinsurance that would otherwise apply. Some of these
products also provide additional benefits not covered by Medicare, such as
vision and dental care services and prescription drugs.
 
  Where competitive conditions permit, the Company charges a premium to
members (in addition to the payment from HCFA) for some of its Medicare risk
products. At December 31, 1996, approximately 42,000 members in 12 markets
were paying premiums which totaled approximately $24 million for the year
ended December 31, 1996.
 
                                       3
<PAGE>
 
  As of January 1, 1997, the Company provides Medicare risk services under 10
contracts with HCFA ("HCFA Contracts") in 16 markets. During 1996, the Company
received approval from HCFA to sell its Medicare risk product in Dallas,
Texas, Cincinnati, Ohio, and several additional counties contiguous to
existing markets where it has already been approved. Management believes that
additional growth opportunities exist because only approximately 10 percent of
the country's Medicare-eligible beneficiaries are enrolled in managed care
programs similar to those offered by the Company. The Company intends to
pursue those opportunities in under-penetrated markets which meet the
Company's long-term growth strategies.
 
  At December 31, 1996, HCFA Contracts covered approximately 364,500 Medicare
risk members for which the Company received premium revenues of approximately
$1.9 billion or 29 percent of the Company's total premium revenues for the
year ended December 31, 1996. At December 31, 1996, one such HCFA Contract
covered approximately 227,500 members in Florida and accounted for premium
revenues of approximately $1.3 billion, which represented 67 percent of the
Company's HCFA premium revenues or 19 percent of the Company's total premium
revenues for the year ended December 31, 1996. HCFA Contracts are renewed for
a one-year term each December 31 unless terminated 90 days prior thereto.
Management believes termination of the HCFA Contract covering the members in
Florida would have a material adverse effect on the revenues, profitability,
and business prospects of the Company.
 
  The Company's 1997 average rate of statutory increase under the HCFA
Contracts is approximately 6 percent. However, the Company's expected 1997
HCFA Contract premium rate increase differs from the 6 percent statutory
increase as a result of a 1996 change in the geographic mix of the Company's
members. The Company expects its 1997 HCFA Contract premium rate increase will
be approximately 4 to 5 percent. Over the last five years, annual increases
have ranged from as low as 3 percent in January 1994 to as high as 12 percent
in January 1993, with an average of approximately 7 percent, including the
January 1997 increase.
 
  Current legislative proposals are being considered which include
modification of future reimbursement rates under the Medicare program and
which encourage the use of managed health care for Medicare beneficiaries.
Management is unable to predict the outcome of these proposals or the impact
they may have on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or
cash flows. The loss of these HCFA Contracts or significant changes in the
Medicare risk program as a result of legislative action, including reductions
in payments or increases in benefits without corresponding increases in
payments, would have a material adverse effect on the revenues, profitability,
and business prospects of the Company.
 
 Medicare Supplement
 
  The Company's Medicare supplement product is an insurance policy which pays
for hospital deductibles, copayments and coinsurance for which an individual
enrolled in the traditional Medicare program is responsible.
 
  Under the terms of existing Medicare supplement policies, the Company may
not reduce or cancel the benefits contracted for by policyholders. These
policies are renewable annually by the insured at the Company's prevailing
rates, which may increase subject to approval by appropriate state insurance
regulators.
 
  At December 31, 1996, the Company provided Medicare supplement benefits to
approximately 97,700 members. For the year ended December 31, 1996, Medicare
supplement premium revenues totaled approximately $93 million or 1 percent of
the Company's total premium revenues.
 
MEDICAID PRODUCT
 
  Medicaid is a federal program that is state-operated to provide health care
services to low-income residents. Each state which chooses to do so develops
through a state specific regulatory agency, a Medicaid managed care initiative
which must be approved by HCFA. HCFA requires that Medicaid managed care plans
meet federal standards and cost no more than the amount that would have been
spent on a comparable fee-for-service basis. States currently use either a
formal proposal process reviewing many bidders or award individual contracts
to qualified bidders which apply for entry to the program. In either case, the
contractual relationship with the state
 
                                       4
<PAGE>
 
is generally for a one-year period. Management believes that the risks
associated with participation in a state Medicaid managed care program are
similar to the risks associated with the Medicare risk product discussed
previously. In both instances, the Company receives a fixed monthly payment
from a government agency for which it is required to provide managed health
care services to enrolled members. For the year ended December 31, 1996,
premium revenues from the Company's Medicaid products totaled approximately
$71 million or 1 percent of the Company's total premium revenues. At December
31, 1996, the Company had approximately 55,200 Medicaid members in three
markets. Due to the increased emphasis on state health care reform, more
states are utilizing a managed care product in their Medicaid programs.
 
CHAMPUS
 
  In 1993, the Company established Humana Military Healthcare Services, Inc.,
(a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company), to bid on contracts to provide
managed care services to the beneficiaries of active military personnel and
retired military personnel and their beneficiaries. In November 1995, the
United States Department of Defense awarded the Company its first CHAMPUS
contract covering approximately 1.1 million eligible beneficiaries in Florida,
Georgia, South Carolina, Mississippi, Alabama, Tennessee, and Eastern
Louisiana.
 
  On July 1, 1996, the Company began providing managed health care services to
these approximate 1.1 million eligible beneficiaries under a potential five-
year contract (a one year contract renewable annually at the government's
option for up to four additional years.). The Company has subcontracted with
third parties to provide certain administration and specialty services under
the contract. Three health benefit options are available to CHAMPUS
beneficiaries. In addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may
enroll in an HMO-like point-of-service plan or take advantage of reduced
copayments by using a network of preferred providers. CHAMPUS premium revenues
for the period July 1 through December 31, 1996, were approximately $351
million or 5 percent of the Company's total premium revenues for the year
ended December 31, 1996.
 
  The Company will actively seek opportunities to provide managed care
services to beneficiaries of federal and state programs, including other
CHAMPUS contracts.
 
OTHER RELATED PRODUCTS
 
  The Company also offers various specialty and administrative service
products including dental, group life, workers' compensation and pharmacy
benefit management services. Specialty product membership at December 31,
1996, totaled approximately 1.9 million members, including approximately
517,000 members for which the Company provides only administrative services.
Specialty administrative membership includes dental, workers' compensation,
flexible benefit and purchasing pool administration services. The Company also
operates a prescription drug management service which administers drug benefit
programs for various HMOs and PPOs, including those of the Company. Premiums
and other income related to these specialty and administrative service
products totaled approximately $208 million for the year ended December 31,
1996.
 
PROVIDER ARRANGEMENTS
 
  The Company's HMOs contract with individual or groups of primary care
physicians, generally for an actuarially determined, fixed, per-member-per-
month fee called a "capitation" payment. Under these arrangements, physicians
are paid a fixed amount to provide services to their members. These contracts
typically obligate primary care physicians to provide or make referrals to
other health care providers for the provision of all covered managed health
care services to HMO members. This includes services provided by specialty
physicians and other providers. The capitation payment does not vary with the
nature or extent of services provided to the member and is generally designed
to shift a portion of the HMOs' financial risk to the primary care physician.
The degree to which the Company uses capitation arrangements varies by
provider. The Company also employs approximately 500 physicians in markets
where it operates staff model HMOs. The Company also contracts with medical
specialists and other providers to which a primary care physician may refer a
member. The contracts with specialists may be capitation arrangements or may
provide for payment on a fee-for-service
 
                                       5
<PAGE>
 
basis based on negotiated fees. Typically, payments by the Company to these
specialists and other providers reduce the ultimate payment that otherwise
would be made to primary care physicians. The Company's HMOs also have
arrangements under which physicians can earn bonuses when certain target goals
relating to quality and cost effectiveness in the provision of patient care
are met. The Company's contracts with capitated physicians generally provide
for stop-loss coverage so that a physician's financial risk for any single
member is limited to a certain amount on an annual basis. The Company remains
financially responsible for the provision of or payment for covered medical
services if primary care or specialty physicians fail to perform their
obligations under the contract.
 
  The focal point for cost control in the Company's HMOs is generally the
primary care physician, whether employed or under contract, who provides
services and controls utilization of appropriate services by directing or
approving hospitalization and referrals to specialists and other providers.
Cost control is further achieved by directly negotiating provider discounts.
Cost control in the Company's PPOs is achieved primarily by establishing a
cost-effective network of participating health care providers and providing
incentives for members to use such providers. These providers are generally
paid on a negotiated fee-for-service basis. With respect to both HMO and PPO
products, cost control is further achieved through the use of a utilization
review system designed to allow only necessary hospital admissions, lengths of
stay and necessary or appropriate medical procedures. The Company's HMOs and
PPOs generally contract for hospital services under per-diem arrangements for
inpatient hospital services and discounted fee-for-service arrangements for
outpatient services. During the year ended December 31, 1996, approximately 42
percent of the Company's total medical costs were for services provided to its
members in hospitals or related facilities.
 
  The Company has certain risk-sharing contracts with physician-hospital
organizations ("PHOs") and independent practice associations ("IPAs") pursuant
to which the PHO or IPA is responsible for providing all covered managed
health care services to its members.
 
  During 1996, the Company began to implement several disease management
programs in various markets. Under these arrangements, the Company provides
financial incentives for contractors to provide the full range of care to
members with respect to a particular high risk or chronic disease in a
quality, cost-effective manner. These programs include congestive heart
failure, prenatal and premature infant care, end stage renal disease, diabetes
and breast cancer screening. As in the case of bonus arrangements, payments
generally are based on performance relative to certain budgeted targets.
 
QUALITY ASSESSMENT AND CUSTOMER SERVICE
 
  Access to high quality health care services is an important element of the
Company's business. All of the Company's contracts require that the provider
participate in the Company's quality assurance program. Physician
participation in the Company's HMOs and PPOs is conditioned upon the physician
meeting the Company's requirements concerning the physician's professional
qualifications. When considering whether to contract with a physician, the
Company performs rigorous on-going credentialing verifications and peer review
that meet both regulatory and accrediting agency standards.
 
  The Company has a program in place to monitor important aspects of HMO plan-
wide service and quality indicators with oversight by a senior management
committee. Such indicators as credentialing, quality concerns, customer
service, disenrollment, and satisfaction are measured against standards.
Another measure of quality is the reporting of Health Plan Employer Data
Information Sets ("HEDIS"), which the Company has been reporting since June
1994. HEDIS is useful to purchasers of managed health care services to measure
individual health plan quality and service. Each HMO has in place a peer
review procedure which is implemented by a quality management committee
("QMC"). This committee is headed by the HMO's medical director and is
composed of physicians and physician group representatives. The QMC performs
initial evaluation of applicants for credentialing and reviews all providers
on a periodic basis to monitor the appropriateness of members' care.
 
                                       6
<PAGE>
 
  During 1996, the Company implemented several new programs intended to ensure
that members receive high quality treatment in a cost-effective manner, improve
members' health, and increase member satisfaction. Disease management programs
are being implemented in various markets to address the specific needs of
members with high risk or chronic diseases. These programs are designed to
improve outcomes through close follow-up monitoring and data collection and to
prevent costly medical episodes, including unnecessary hospital stays. The
Company has also implemented a Demand Management program which provides members
telephone access to registered nurses 24 hours a day, seven days a week. As of
December 31, 1996, this service was available to approximately 600,000 fully
insured members in nine markets and is expected to be available to all of the
Company's remaining members by December 31, 1997.
 
HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATION ACCREDITATION
 
  With the increasing significance of managed care in the health care industry,
several independent organizations have been formed for the purpose of
responding to external demands for accountability over the managed care
industry. The organizations utilized by the Company are the National Committee
for Quality Assurance ("NCQA") and the Joint Commission on Accreditation of
Healthcare Organizations ("JCAHO"). NCQA performs site reviews of standards
established for quality assurance, credentialing, utilization management,
medical records, preventive services, and member rights and responsibilities.
JCAHO reviews rights, responsibilities and ethics, continuum of care, education
and communication, leadership, management of information and human resources,
and network performance. Both organizations evaluate the mechanisms the
organization has established to ensure continuous quality improvement.
 
  In the states of Kansas and Florida, accreditation or external review by an
accrediting agency is mandatory and generally required for licensure. As of
December 31, 1996, nine of Humana's HMO markets achieved various levels of
accreditation. Humana Medical Plan, Inc. in its South Florida, Orlando, Tampa,
and Daytona markets, Humana Health Plan, Inc. in its Chicago market, and Humana
Health Plan of Texas, Inc. in its San Antonio market (which includes Houston
and Dallas), all received full accreditation status from NCQA. Humana Medical
Plan, Inc. in its Fort Walton market received three year accreditation status
from JCAHO. Humana Medical Plan, Inc. in its Jacksonville market and Humana
Kansas City, Inc. each received one year accreditation from NCQA. The Company
is currently developing plans for achieving accreditation for the remainder of
its HMO plans, beginning with the review of the Cincinnati, Ohio market in
February 1997. The Company is also developing a plan for accreditation of its
Milwaukee, Wisconsin HMO plan which was previously denied accreditation (prior
to purchase in December 1994). The Company has submitted an application to NCQA
requesting a survey of the Milwaukee plan in May 1999. Management believes the
Milwaukee denial has not had a material impact on the Company's financial
position, results of operations, or cash flows.
 
MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS
 
  The Company's managed care health plans use centralized, integrated
information systems developed and/or customized specifically to meet the
Company's needs and to allow for aggregation of data and comparison across
markets. These information systems support marketing, sales, underwriting,
contract administration, billing, financial, and other administrative functions
as well as customer service, appointment scheduling, authorization and referral
management, concurrent review, physician capitation and claims administration,
provider management, quality management, and utilization review.
 
  Key to the Company's information systems are operational reports, used by
market office and corporate personnel for such items as physician profiling,
utilization review, quality assessment, member satisfaction measurement, and
employer reporting. Clinical software is used as well to assess appropriateness
of medical care provided to the Company's members. The Company's information
systems are continually upgraded to support new products in an integrated
manner as well as to take advantage of the latest advances in technology.
 
SALES AND MARKETING
 
  Individuals become members of the Company's Commercial HMOs and PPOs through
their employer or other groups which typically offer employees or members a
selection of managed health care products, pay for
 
                                       7
<PAGE>
 
all or part of the premiums and make payroll deductions for any premiums
payable by the employees. The Company attempts to become an employer's or
group's exclusive source of managed health care benefits by offering HMO and
PPO products that provide cost-effective quality care consistent with the
needs and expectations of the employees or members.
 
  The Company uses various methods to market its Commercial and Medicare
products, including television, radio, telemarketing and mailings. At December
31, 1996, the Company used approximately 34,000 independently licensed brokers
and agents and approximately 300 licensed employees to sell the Company's
Commercial products. Many of the Company's employer group customers are
represented by insurance brokers and consultants who assist these groups in
the design and purchase of health care products. The Company generally pays
brokers a commission based on premiums, with commissions varying by market and
premium volume.
 
  At December 31, 1996, the Company used approximately 1,400 independently
licensed brokers and approximately 600 employed sales representatives, who are
each paid a salary and/or per member commission, to market the Company's
Medicaid and Medicare products. The Company also used approximately 400
telemarketing representatives who assisted in the marketing of Medicaid and
Medicare products by making appointments for broker/sales representatives with
prospective members.
 
  The following table lists the Company's medical membership at December 31,
1996, by state and product:
 
                              MEDICAL MEMBERSHIP
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                           COMMERCIAL                                              PERCENT
                         --------------- MEDICARE          MEDICARE                  OF
                           PPO   HMO(1)    RISK   CHAMPUS SUPPLEMENT  ASO   TOTAL   TOTAL
                         ------- ------- -------- ------- ---------- ----- ------- -------
<S>                      <C>     <C>     <C>      <C>     <C>        <C>   <C>     <C>
Florida.................   185.4   329.4  227.5     416.0     9.1      6.0 1,173.4   24.2%
Illinois................   176.6   292.0   45.8        --      --     56.3   570.7   11.8%
Wisconsin...............   101.5   121.5     --        --      --    204.7   427.7    8.8%
Kentucky................   145.5   108.4    8.1        --    34.5     81.8   378.3    7.8%
Georgia.................    85.8      --     --     261.9     5.2      1.0   353.9    7.3%
Texas...................   200.7    90.4   32.5        --    11.0      5.9   340.5    7.0%
Missouri/Kansas.........    63.1   124.2   16.7        --     7.6     40.6   252.2    5.2%
Alabama.................     4.8    16.7     --     108.7    16.7      7.0   153.9    3.2%
South Carolina..........     6.2      --     --     141.2      --      1.3   148.7    3.1%
Indiana.................    91.7    25.8     --        --     1.9     21.2   140.6    2.9%
Tennessee...............    58.0      --     --      71.7     1.3      1.5   132.5    2.7%
Other...................   467.6   119.5   33.9     103.5    10.4     43.7   778.6   16.0%
                         ------- -------  -----   -------    ----    ----- -------  -----
    Total............... 1,586.9 1,227.9  364.5   1,103.0    97.7    471.0 4,851.0  100.0%
                         ======= =======  =====   =======    ====    ===== =======  =====
</TABLE>
- --------
(1) Includes 55,200 Medicaid members located in Illinois, Wisconsin and
    Missouri/Kansas.
 
RISK MANAGEMENT
 
  Through the use of internally developed underwriting criteria, the Company
determines the risk it is willing to assume and the amount of premium to
charge for its Commercial products. In most instances, employer and other
groups must meet the Company's underwriting standards in order to qualify to
contract with the Company for coverage. Small group reform laws in some states
have imposed regulations which provide for guaranteed issue of certain health
insurance products and prescribe certain limitations on the variation in rates
charged based upon assessment of health conditions.
 
  Underwriting techniques are not employed in connection with Medicare risk
HMO products because HCFA regulations require the Company to accept all
eligible Medicare applicants regardless of their health or prior medical
history. The Company also is not permitted to employ underwriting criteria for
the Medicaid product but rather follows HCFA and state requirements. In
addition, with respect to the CHAMPUS contract, no underwriting techniques are
employed because the Company must accept all eligible beneficiaries who choose
to participate.
 
                                       8
<PAGE>
 
COMPETITION
 
  The managed health care industry is highly competitive and contracts for the
sale of Commercial products are generally bid or renewed annually. The
Company's competitors vary by local market and include Blue Cross/Blue Shield
(including HMOs and PPOs owned by Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans), national
insurance companies and other HMOs and PPOs. Many of the Company's competitors
have larger membership in local markets or greater financial resources. The
Company's ability to sell its products and to retain customers is or may be
influenced by such factors as benefits, pricing, contract terms, number and
quality of participating physicians and other managed health care providers,
utilization review, claims processing, administrative efficiency, relationships
with agents, quality of customer service, and accreditation results.
 
GOVERNMENT REGULATION
 
  Of the Company's 18 licensed HMO subsidiaries, nine are qualified under the
Federal Health Maintenance Organization Act of 1973, as amended. Six of these
federally qualified subsidiaries are parties to HCFA Contracts to provide
Medicare risk HMO products in 12 states and the District of Columbia.
 
  To obtain federal qualification, an HMO must meet certain requirements,
including conformance with financial criteria, a standard method of rate
setting, a comprehensive benefit package, and prohibition of medical
underwriting of individuals. In certain markets, and for certain products, the
Company operates HMOs that are not federally qualified because this provides
greater flexibility with respect to product design and pricing than is possible
for federally qualified HMOs.
 
  HCFA conducts audits of Medicare risk HMOs at least biannually and may
perform other reviews more frequently to determine compliance with federal
regulations and contractual obligations. These audits include review of the
HMO's administration and management (including management information and data
collection systems), fiscal stability, utilization management and incentive
arrangements, health services delivery, quality assurance, marketing,
enrollment and disenrollment activity, claims processing, and complaint
systems. HCFA regulations require quarterly and annual submission of financial
statements and restrict the number of Medicare risk and Medicaid members to no
more than the HMO's Commercial membership in a specified service area. HCFA
regulations also require independent review of medical records and quality of
care, review and approval by HCFA of all advertising, marketing and
communication materials, and independent review of all denied claims and
service complaints which are not resolved in favor of a member.
 
  In addition, HCFA has finalized rules that require certain disclosures to
HCFA and to Medicare beneficiaries concerning the financial arrangements which
managed care organizations have with physicians with whom they contract. These
rules also require certain levels of stop-loss coverage to protect contracted
physicians against major losses relating to patient care, depending on the
amount of financial risk they assume.
 
  The Company's Medicaid product is regulated by the applicable state agency in
the state which the Company sells its Medicaid product, in conformance with
federal approval of the state plan, and is subject to periodic reviews by these
agencies. The reviews are similar in nature to those performed by HCFA.
 
  Laws in each of the states in which the Company operates its HMOs and PPOs
regulate the Company's operations, including the scope of benefits, rate
formulas, delivery systems, utilization review procedures, quality assurance,
enrollment requirements, claim payments, marketing, and advertising. The HMO
and PPO products offered by the Company are sold under licenses issued by the
applicable state insurance regulators. The Company's HMOs and PPOs are required
to be in compliance with certain minimum capital requirements. These
requirements must be satisfied by investing in approved investments that
generally cannot be used for other purposes. Under state laws, the Company's
HMOs and PPOs are audited by state departments of insurance for financial and
contractual compliance, and its HMOs are audited for compliance with health
services standards by respective state departments of health. Most states' laws
require such audits to be performed at least triennially.
 
  The Company and its licensed subsidiaries are subject to regulation under
state insurance holding company regulations. These regulations require, among
other things, prior approval and/or notice of certain material transactions,
dividend payments, and the filing of various financial and operational reports.
 
                                       9
<PAGE>
 
  Management believes that the Company is in substantial compliance with all
governmental laws and regulations affecting the Company's business.
 
HEALTH CARE REFORM
 
  There continues to be diverse legislative and regulatory initiatives at both
the federal and state levels to address aspects of the nation's health care
system.
 
 National
 
  In 1996, Congress passed the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability
Act ("HIPAA") which established portability, pre-existing conditions,
nondiscrimination and guaranteed renewal rules for both the small and large
group markets, including self-funded groups. HIPAA also extended guarantee
issue rules for the small group market, defined as 2 to 50 employees.
 
  Current legislative proposals are being considered which include modification
of future reimbursement rates under the Medicare program and which encourage
the use of managed health care for Medicare beneficiaries. Further, Congress is
evaluating proposals to subsidize health insurance premiums for certain
uninsured groups, including children and the unemployed. Congress is also
likely to consider various managed care proposals to require all plans to meet
minimum quality standards and service delivery requirements. Management
believes that continuing concerns over health care accessability and the cost
of the Medicare and Medicaid programs in their current form will result in
continued legislative efforts to reform health care.
 
 State
 
  Legislation enacted in the states has included, among other things, small
group market reforms, subscriber access standards for network health plans, and
purchasing pools. Issues related to subscriber access and the delivery of care
including any willing provider, mandatory length of stay, direct access and
utilization review (as well as civil liability arising from these decisions)
are being discussed. In addition, states will be addressing insurance market
reform issues such as portability, pre-existing condition exclusions, medical
savings accounts, and rating restrictions as they come into compliance with
recently enacted federal legislation (such as HIPAA).
 
  Management believes that managed care and health care in general will
continue to be scrutinized and may lead to additional legislative health care
reform initiatives. Management is unable to predict how existing federal or
state laws and regulations may be changed or interpreted, what additional laws
or regulations affecting the Company's businesses may be enacted or proposed,
when and which of the proposed laws will be adopted or what effect any such new
laws and regulations will have on the revenues, profitability, and business
prospects of the Company.
 
OTHER BUSINESSES
 
 Hospital
 
  The Company owns a 170-bed hospital in Lexington, Kentucky, which provides
services primarily to members of the Company's managed care plans in Lexington.
The Company contracted with an independent hospital management company (the
"Management Company") whereby effective March 1, 1995, all operational
functions of the hospital have been managed by the Management Company. The
Company has terminated this contract with the Management Company effective
February 21, 1998.
 
 Captive Insurance Company
 
  The Company insures substantially all professional liability risks through a
wholly owned subsidiary (the "Subsidiary"). The annual premiums paid to the
Subsidiary are determined by independent actuaries. The Subsidiary reinsures
levels of coverage for losses in excess of its retained limits with unrelated
insurance carriers.
 
                                       10
<PAGE>
 
 Centralized Management Services
 
  Centralized management services are provided to each health plan from the
Company's headquarters. These services include management information systems,
product administration, financing, personnel, development, accounting, legal
advice, public relations, marketing, insurance, purchasing, risk management,
actuarial, underwriting, and claims processing.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
  As of December 31, 1996, the Company had approximately 18,300 employees,
including approximately 1,200 employees covered by collective bargaining
agreements. The Company has not experienced any work stoppages and believes it
has good relations with its employees.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
  The Company owns its principal executive office, which is located in the
Humana Building, 500 West Main Street, Louisville, Kentucky, 40202.
 
  The Company provides medical services in owned or leased medical centers
ranging in size from approximately 1,500 to 80,000 square feet. The Company's
administrative market offices are generally leased, with square footage ranging
from approximately 700 to 89,000. The following chart lists the location of
properties used in the operation of the Company at December 31, 1996:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                               MEDICAL    ADMINISTRATIVE
                                               CENTERS       OFFICES
                                             ------------ ----------------
                                             OWNED LEASED OWNED    LEASED    TOTAL
                                             ----- ------ -------  -------   -----
      <S>                                    <C>   <C>    <C>      <C>       <C>
      Florida...............................    6    89         --       40   135
      Illinois..............................    8    18         --        9    35
      Missouri/Kansas.......................    3    10         --        6    19
      Texas.................................    5     4          1        9    19
      Kentucky..............................    8     3          1        3    15
      California............................   --    --         --       10    10
      Wisconsin.............................   --    --         --        9     9
      Other.................................    4    11          1       55    71
                                              ---   ---    -------  -------   ---
          Total.............................   34   135          3      141   313
                                              ===   ===    =======  =======   ===
</TABLE>
 
  In addition, the Company owns buildings in Louisville, Kentucky, San Antonio,
Texas, and Green Bay, Wisconsin, and leases facilities in Jacksonville,
Florida, and Madison, Wisconsin, all of which are used for customer service and
claims processing. The Louisville and Green Bay facilities also perform
enrollment processing and other corporate functions.
 
  The Company also owns a hospital and medical office building in Lexington,
Kentucky.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  1. A class action law suit styled Mary Forsyth, et al v. Humana Inc., et al,
Case #CV-5-89-249-PMP (L.R.L.), (now restyled Marietta Cade, et al v. Humana
Health Insurance of Nevada, Inc., et al) was filed on March 29, 1989, in the
United States District Court for the District of Nevada (the "Forsyth" case).
On November 19, 1996, the Company filed a Petition for Reconsideration on
Rehearing En Banc in the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in the Forsyth case.
The Court of Appeals, on November 5, 1996, had reinstated certain claims that
had been dismissed by the U.S. District Court in Nevada in the case involving
claims arising out of the method of calculation of coinsurance for Nevada
insureds prior to 1988. The Petition requested the Court of Appeals to
reconsider its ruling reinstating an antitrust claim and also to clarify the
portion of its ruling reinstating a claim under the Racketeer Influenced and
Corrupt Organizations Act.
 
 
                                       11
<PAGE>
 
  2. On April 22, 1993, an alleged stockholder of the Company filed a
purported shareholder derivative action in the Court of Chancery of the State
of Delaware, County of New Castle, styled Lewis v. Austen, et al, Civil Action
No. 12937. The action was purportedly brought on behalf of the Company and
Galen Health Care, Inc. ("Galen") against all of the directors of both
companies at the time Galen was spun off from the Company alleging, among
other things, that the defendants had improperly amended the Company's
existing stock option plans to bifurcate their existing options to allow
employees of each company to receive options in the stock of the other
company. The challenged amendment to the plan was approved by the Company's
stockholders at the 1993 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. There has been little
activity in this case. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss the case in
October 1995. That motion is still pending. The Company believes that the
complaint is without merit.
 
  Damages for claims for personal injuries and medical benefit denials are
usual in the Company's business. Personal injury claims are covered by
insurance from the Subsidiary and excess carriers, except to the extent that
claimants seek punitive damages, which may not be covered by insurance if
awarded. Punitive damages generally are not paid where claims are settled and
generally are awarded only where a court determines there has been a willful
act or omission to act.
 
  Management does not believe that any pending legal actions will have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, result of
operations, or cash flows.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
  Not applicable.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
  Set forth below are names and ages of all of the current executive officers
of the Company as of February 28, 1997, their positions, date of election to
such position and the date first elected an officer of the Company:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                SERVD IN SUCH       FIRST
NAME                     AGE              POSITION              CAPACITY SINCE ELECTED OFFICER
- ----                     ---              --------              -------------- ---------------
<S>                      <C> <C>                                <C>            <C>
David A. Jones..........  65 Chairman of the Board and              08/69           09/64(1)
                              Chief Executive Officer
Gregory H. Wolf.........  40 President and Chief Operating          09/96           10/95(2)
                              Officer
David R. Astar..........  44 Vice President--Customer               12/96           09/96(3)
                              Service and Quality
Karen A. Coughlin.......  49 Division II--President                 07/96           09/88
Kenneth J. Fasola.......  37 Vice President and                     12/96           05/96(4)
                              National Sales Manager
Arthur P. Hipwell.......  48 Senior Vice President and              06/94           08/90(5)
                              General Counsel
Gail H. Knopf...........  50 Vice President--Information            12/96           08/85
                              Systems
Michael B. McCallister..  44 Division I--President                  07/96           09/89
James E. Murray.........  43 Chief Financial Officer                01/97           08/90
David R. Nelson.........  42 Vice President--Risk Management        12/96           09/96(6)
                              and Chief Actuary
Bruce D. Perkins........  42 Senior Vice President--Provider        07/96           09/94
                              Affairs and Reengineering
</TABLE>
 
 
                                      12
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                SERVD IN SUCH       FIRST
NAME                     AGE              POSITION              CAPACITY SINCE ELECTED OFFICER
- ----                     ---              --------              -------------- ---------------
<S>                      <C> <C>                                <C>            <C>
Jerry D. Reeves, M.D....  52 Senior Vice President and              01/97           01/97(7)
                              Chief Medical Officer
Gregory K. Rotherham....  40 Vice President--Marketing              12/96           09/96(8)
Kirk E. Rothrock........  38 Vice President--Specialty              12/96           05/96(9)
                              Products and Business
                              Development
George W. Vieth, Jr.....  41 Vice President--Development and        12/96           12/95(10)
                              Planning
Tod J. Zacharias........  35 Vice President--Employers Health       12/96           05/94(11)
                              Insurance Company
</TABLE>
- --------
 (1) Elected an officer of a predecessor corporation in 1961.
 (2) Mr. Wolf was initially elected an officer of the Company at the time of
     the acquisition of EMPHESYS in 1995. Mr. Wolf had been President and Chief
     Operating Officer of EMPHESYS (now a wholly owned subsidiary of the
     Company) since November 1994. Mr. Wolf was named Executive Vice President
     for Employers Health Insurance Company ("EHIC") (a wholly owned subsidiary
     of EMPHESYS) in 1993 and was named Senior Vice President for EHIC in 1990
     for Marketing, Sales and Business Development.
 (3) Mr. Astar was elected to the above position in September 1996. Prior to
     his appointment, Mr. Astar was Vice President of Customer Service of EHIC
     since 1990.
 (4) Mr. Fasola was initially elected as Vice President Commercial Sales of the
     Company in May 1996. Prior to his appointment, Mr. Fasola was Vice
     President and National Sales Manager of EHIC since 1989.
 (5) Mr. Hipwell was initially elected an officer of the Company in 1990 and
     previously served in his current capacity since July 1992. Effective with
     the spinoff of Galen Health Care Inc. ("Galen"), he became Senior Vice
     President and General Counsel of Galen. Mr. Hipwell returned to the
     Company in January 1994 and was named Senior Vice President and General
     Counsel of the Company in June 1994.
 (6) Mr. Nelson was elected to the above position in September 1996. Prior to
     his appointment, Mr. Nelson was Vice President and Chief Actuary of EHIC
     since 1992.
 (7) Dr. Reeves, a pediatric oncologist, joined the Company in January 1997 in
     the above position. Prior to his appointment, Dr. Reeves was Senior Vice
     President--Health Care Operations and Chief Medical Officer at Sierra
     Health Services, Inc. in Las Vegas, Nevada. Dr. Reeves was employed by
     Sierra for eight years.
 (8) Mr. Rotherham was elected to the above position in September 1996. Prior
     to his appointment, Mr. Rotherham served in a similar capacity as Vice
     President for EHIC since 1994 and for Schneider National, Inc. in Green
     Bay, Wisconsin since 1985.
 (9) Mr. Rothrock was elected to the above position in May 1996. Prior to his
     appointment, Mr. Rothrock served in a similar capacity as Vice President
     for EHIC since 1993 and as an Assistant Vice President since 1991.
(10) Mr. Vieth was elected to the above position in December 1995, having
     joined the Company in November 1992 as Director of Development and
     Planning. Before joining the Company, Mr. Vieth was Vice President and
     General Counsel of Glenmore Distilleries in Louisville, Kentucky since
     1989.
(11) Mr. Zacharias was elected to the above position with EHIC in May 1994. He
     joined EHIC in 1989 as Controller.
 
  Executive officers are elected annually by the Company's Board of Directors
and serve until their successors are elected or until resignation or removal.
There are no family relationships among any of the directors or executive
officers of the Company, except that Mr. Jones is the father of David A. Jones,
Jr., the Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors. Unless otherwise noted, all
of the above-named executive officers have been employees of the Company for
more than five consecutive years.
 
                                       13
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART II
 
  Information for Items 5 through 8 of this report, which appears in the 1996
Annual Report to Stockholders as indicated on the following table, is
incorporated by reference herein in this report and filed as an exhibit hereto:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                                      ANNUAL
                                                                      REPORT
                                                                        TO
                                                                   STOCKHOLDERS
                                                                       PAGE
                                                                   ------------
<S>                                                                <C>
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
       STOCKHOLDER MATTERS........................................      33
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA...................................      14
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
       CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS........................    15-18
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
    Consolidated financial statements.............................    19-30
    Report of independent accountants.............................      31
    Quarterly financial information (unaudited)...................      31
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
       ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
</TABLE>
    Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  The information required by this Item other than the information set forth in
Part I under the Section entitled "EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY," is
herein incorporated by reference from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Stockholders scheduled to be held on May 8, 1997, appearing
under the caption "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY FOR 1997" of such Proxy
Statement.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
  The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference
from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
scheduled to be held on May 8, 1997, appearing under the caption "EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION OF THE COMPANY" of such Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
  The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference
from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
scheduled to be held on May 8, 1997, appearing under the caption "SECURITY
OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS OF COMPANY COMMON STOCK" of such Proxy
Statement.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  The information required by this Item is herein incorporated by reference
from the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders
scheduled to be held on May 8, 1997, appearing under the caption "CERTAIN
TRANSACTIONS WITH MANAGEMENT AND OTHERS" of such Proxy Statement.
 
                                       14
<PAGE>
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  (a)  The financial statements, financial statement schedules and exhibits set
       forth below are filed as part of this report.
 
  (1) Financial Statements--The response to this portion of Item 14 is
      submitted as Item 8 of this report.
 
  (2) Financial Statement Schedules--All schedules have been omitted because
      they are not applicable.
 
  (3) Exhibits:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
     <C>       <S>                                                          <C>
      3(a)     Restated Certificate of Incorporation filed with the
               Secretary of State of Delaware on November 9, 1989, as
               restated to incorporate the amendment of January 9, 1992,
               and the correction of March 23, 1992. Exhibit 4(i) to the
               Company's Post-Effective Amendment to the Registration
               Statement on Form S-8 (Reg. No. 33-49305) filed February
               2, 1994, is incorporated by reference herein.
       (b)     By-laws, as amended. Exhibit 3(a) to the Company's Current
               Report on Form 8-K (File No. 1-5975) filed March 5, 1993,
               is incorporated by reference herein.
      4(a)     Restated Certificate of Incorporation as amended and
               corrected and By-laws as amended. (See 3(a) and 3(b)
               above.)
       (b)     Form of Amended and Restated Rights Agreement dated
               February 14, 1996, between Humana Inc. and Mid-America
               Bank of Louisville and Trust Company. Exhibit 1.3 to the
               Registration Statement (File No. 1-5975) on Form 8-A/A
               dated February 14, 1996, is incorporated by reference
               herein.
       (c)     There are no instruments defining the rights of holders
               with respect to long-term debt in excess of 10 percent of
               the total assets of the Company on a consolidated basis.
               Other long-term indebtedness of the Company is described
               in Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in
               the Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders. The
               Company agrees to furnish copies of all such instruments
               defining the rights of the holders of such indebtedness to
               the Commission upon request.
     10(a)*    1981 Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan, as amended. Exhibit
               10(c) to the Company's Form SE filed on November 25, 1987,
               is incorporated by reference herein.
       (b)*    Amendment No. 2 to the 1981 Non-Qualified Stock Option
               Plan, as amended. Annex A to the Company's Proxy Statement
               covering the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on
               February 18, 1993, is incorporated by reference herein.
       (c)*    1989 Stock Option Plan for Employees. Exhibit A to the
               Company's Proxy Statement covering the Annual Meeting of
               Stockholders held on January 11, 1990, is incorporated by
               reference herein.
       (d)*    Amendment No. 1 to the 1989 Stock Option Plan for
               Employees. Annex B to the Company's Proxy Statement
               covering the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on
               February 18, 1993, is incorporated by reference herein.
       (e)*    Amendment No. 2 to the 1989 Stock Option Plan for
               Employees. Exhibit 10(e) to the Company's Annual Report on
               Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, is
               incorporated by reference herein.
       (f)*    1989 Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors. Exhibit
               B to the Company's Proxy Statement covering the Annual
               Meeting of Stockholders held on January 11, 1990, is
               incorporated by reference herein.
</TABLE>
- --------
   * Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(v) are compensatory plans or
     management contracts.
 
 
                                       15
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
     <C>       <S>                                                          <C>
     10(g)*    Amendment No. 1 to the 1989 Stock Option Plan for Non-Em-
               ployee Directors. Annex C to the Company's Proxy Statement
               covering the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on Febru-
               ary 18, 1993, is incorporated by reference herein.
       (h)*    Amendment No. 2 to the 1989 Stock Option Plan for Non-Em-
               ployee Directors. Exhibit 10(h) to the Company's Annual
               Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
               1993, is incorporated by reference herein.
       (i)*    Executive Management Incentive Compensation Plan--Group A,
               Corporate. Exhibit C to the Company's Proxy Statement cov-
               ering the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 26,
               1994, is incorporated by reference herein.
       (j)*    Executive Management Incentive Compensation Plan--Group I,
               Corporate. Exhibit 10(j) to the Company's Annual Report on
               Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, is
               incorporated by reference herein.
       (k)*    Regional Incentive Compensation Plan--Group I, Regional
               Senior Vice President. Exhibit 10(k) to the Company's An-
               nual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended Decem-
               ber 31, 1993, is incorporated by reference herein.
       (l)*    Senior Management Incentive Compensation Plan--Group II,
               Corporate. Exhibit 10(l) to the Company's Annual Report on
               Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, is
               incorporated by reference herein.
       (m)*    Restated agreement providing for termination benefits in
               the event of a change of control. Exhibit 10(m) to the
               Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
               ended December 31, 1994, is incorporated by reference
               herein.
       (n)*    Employment Agreement--David A. Jones, as amended. Exhibit
               10(m) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
               fiscal year ended August 31, 1991, is incorporated by ref-
               erence herein.
       (o)*    Directors' Retirement Policy as amended. Exhibit 10(p) to
               the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
               year ended December 31, 1995, is incorporated by reference
               herein.
       (p)*    Humana Officers' Target Retirement Plan as amended. Ex-
               hibit 10(q) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, is incorpo-
               rated by reference herein.
       (q)*    Form Letter Agreement concerning Humana Officers' Target
               Retirement Plan dated June 18, 1992, for David A. Jones.
               Exhibit 10(s) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, is incorpo-
               rated by reference herein.
       (r)*    Humana Thrift Excess Plan as amended. Exhibit 10(s) to the
               Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
               ended December 31, 1994, is incorporated by reference
               herein.
       (s)*    Humana Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan as amended.
               Exhibit 10(t) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994, is incorpo-
               rated by reference herein.
       (t)*    Letter agreement with Company officers concerning health
               insurance availability. Exhibit 10(mm) to the Company's
               Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended De-
               cember 31, 1994, is incorporated by reference herein.
</TABLE>
- --------
*Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(v) are compensatory plans or
   management contracts.
 
 
                                       16
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
 
     <C>       <S>                                                          <C>
     10(u)*    Retention Bonus Agreement between Gregory H. Wolf and the
               Company. Exhibit 10(w) to the Company's Annual Report on
               Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995, is
               incorporated by reference herein.
       (v)*    Executive Change in Control Severance Policy for EMPHESYS
               Financial Group, Inc. and Employers Health Insurance
               Company, filed herewith.
       (w)     Indemnity Agreement. Appendix B to the Company's Proxy
               Statement covering the Annual Meeting of Stockholders held
               on January 8, 1987, is incorporated by reference herein.
       (x)     Agreement between the Secretary of the Department of
               Health and Human Services and Humana Medical Plan, Inc.
               Exhibit 10(w) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
               for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993, is
               incorporated by reference herein.
       (y)     Humana Inc. Agreement and Amended Credit Agreement dated
               August 1, 1995, and an Amendment and Restatement dated as
               of September 26, 1995. Exhibit (b)(2) to Amendment No. 4
               of the Company's Schedule 14D-1 and 13D is incorporated by
               reference herein.
       (z)     Assumption of Liabilities and Indemnification Agreement
               between the Company and Galen Health Care, Inc. ("Galen").
               Exhibit 10(g) to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K
               filed on March 5, 1993, is incorporated by reference
               herein.
       (aa)    Loss Portfolio Reinsurance Agreement between Health Care
               Indemnity, Inc. and Managed Care Indemnity, Inc. Exhibit
               10(j) to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on
               March 5, 1993, is incorporated by reference herein.
       (bb)    Alternative Dispute Resolution Agreement between the
               Company and Galen dated March 8, 1993. Exhibit 10(qq) to
               the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
               year ended December 31, 1993, is incorporated by reference
               herein.
       (cc)    Agreement between the United States Department of Defense
               and Humana Military Healthcare Services, Inc., a wholly
               owned subsidiary of the Company. Exhibit 10(dd) to the
               Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
               ended December 31, 1995, is incorporated by reference
               herein.
     12        Statement re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed
               Charges, filed herewith.
     13        1996 Annual Report to Stockholders, filed herewith. The
               Annual Report shall not be deemed to be filed with the
               Commission except to the extent that information is
               specifically incorporated by reference herein.
     21        List of Subsidiaries, filed herewith.
     23        Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P., filed herewith.
     27        Financial Data Schedule, filed herewith.
</TABLE>
- --------
  *Exhibits 10(a) through and including 10(v) are compensatory plans or
     management contracts.
 
  (b) Reports on Form 8-K:
 
  No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Company during the last quarter of
  the period covered by this report.
 
                                       17
<PAGE>
 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereto duly authorized.
 
                                          HUMANA INC.
 
                                                    /s/ James E. Murray
                                          By___________________________________
                                                      James E. Murray
                                                  Chief Financial Officer
                                          Date: March 28, 1997
 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Company
and in the capacities and on the date indicated.
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
             SIGNATURE                           TITLE                    DATE
             ---------                           -----                    ----
 
<S>                                  <C>                           <C>
      /s/ James E. Murray            Chief Financial Officer         March 28, 1997
____________________________________  (Principal Accounting
          James E. Murray             Officer)
 
       /s/ David A. Jones            Chairman of the Board and       March 28, 1997
____________________________________  Chief Executive Officer
           David A. Jones
 
    /s/ David A. Jones, Jr.          Vice Chairman of the Board      March 28, 1997
____________________________________
        David A. Jones, Jr.
 
   /s/ K. Frank Austen, M.D.         Director                        March 28, 1997
____________________________________
       K. Frank Austen, M.D.
 
     /s/ Michael E. Gellert          Director                        March 28, 1997
____________________________________
         Michael E. Gellert
 
        /s/ John R. Hall             Director                        March 28, 1997
____________________________________
            John R. Hall
 
        /s/ Irwin Lerner             Director                        March 28, 1997
____________________________________
            Irwin Lerner
 
   /s/ W. Ann Reynolds, Ph.D.        Director                        March 28, 1997
____________________________________
       W. Ann Reynolds, Ph.D.
 
</TABLE>
 
                                      18
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-10.V
<SEQUENCE>2
<DESCRIPTION>EXECUTIVE CHANGE IN CONTROL SEVERANCE POLICY
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                   Exhibit 10(v)

EXECUTIVE CHANGE IN CONTROL SEVERANCE POLICY
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
CHANGE IN CONTROL SEVERANCE POLICY


PARTICIPANT:


SCOPE:          This policy applies to Designated Officers of EMPHESYS
                Financial Group, Inc. and Employers Health Insurance.
                
PURPOSE:        To provide a uniform policy that will insure the retention of
                Key Individuals during a possible transitionary phase to any new
                form of ownership and to provide a uniform policy for the
                administration of severance benefits for designated individuals
                in the event of a "Change in control" as defined in this policy.

ELIGIBILITY:    Termination of employment after a "Change in Control". In the
                event that an employee covered under the scope of this policy is
                terminated by the company while this policy is in effect within
                eighteen months following a Change in Control (as defined in
                this policy) with or without good cause; or if employee
                terminates their own employment within 6 months after a 25% or
                more reduction in base annual salary following a Change of
                Control, the company shall (1) pay to Employee an amount equal
                to their current annual base salary accrued through the date the
                termination becomes effective, (2) pay to employee an amount
                equal to their Management Incentive Bonus accrued through the
                date the termination becomes effective (3) pay to the employee
                an amount equal to the benefits shown in the benefits section of
                this policy. The payment of this severance shall be made in the
                form of a salary continuance for the period specified in the
                schedule and will also provide for the continuance of current
                medical insurance and life insurance for the same period of
                time. The severance paid under this plan will be paid in lieu of
                any severance benefits provided under any other company provided
                severance plans.

BENEFITS:       Employees covered under the scope of this policy shall be 
                eligible for continuation of Base Salary and Benefits for
                Six/Nine Months from the date of termination.

DEFINITION:     For the purposes of this policy, "Change in Control" shall be 
                deemed to have occurred if, during, of following the
                consummation of, a stock purchase plan, tender offer, exchange
                offer, merger, consolidation, sale of assets, contested election
                or any combination of the foregoing transactions, any person,
                entity, or group of persons acting in concert, directly or
                indirectly, (i) acquires ownership of the power to vote 40% of
                the voting securities of EFG and one or more of its
                representatives are elected to the Board, (ii) acquires
                ownership of the power to vote in excess of 50% of the voting
                powers of EFG, or (iii) otherwise acquires effective control of
                the business and affairs of EFG; provided however, that
                acquisition of shares pursuant to the initial public offering of
                EFG shall not be used to compute the percentage ownership for
                purposes of defining Change of Control.

REQUIREMENTS:   In order to receive the benefits under this policy, the covered
                employee must agree in writing to the Settlement Agreement and
                General Release that will be provided in advance of the
                receiving of any benefits. Such employee will not receive any of
                the described benefits or any other severance benefits in the
                absence of executing and agreeing to the Letter and Agreement.

MISCELLANEOUS:  This policy statement is intended as an overview of the benefits
                provided. In the case of any discrepancies, the actual language
                of the Settlement Agreement and General Release shall be the
                binding language. This policy will be administered by the Chief
                Executive Officer and the Vice President and Human Resources.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-12
<SEQUENCE>3
<DESCRIPTION>RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                      Exhibit 12



                                  HUMANA INC.
                       RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES
              For the Years Ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                                  (Unaudited)


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>

                                                 Years Ended December 31,
                                              -----------------------------
                                              1996         1995        1994
                                              ----         ----        ----
<S>                                           <C>          <C>        <C>
Earnings:

 Income before income taxes                   $ 18         $288        $257

 Fixed charges                                  19           17           9
                                              ----         ----        ----
                                              $ 37         $305        $266
                                              ====         ====        ====

Fixed charges:

 Interest charged to expense                  $ 11         $ 11        $  4(c)

 One-third of rent expense (a)                   8            6           5
                                              ----         ----        ----
                                              $ 19         $ 17        $  9
                                              ====         ====        ====
Ratio of earnings to fixed charges             2.0(b)      17.9        28.9
                                              ====         ====        ====
</TABLE>



(a)  One-third of rent expense is considered representative of the underlying
     interest.

(b)  Excluding special charges of $215 million before income taxes, the ratio of
     earnings to fixed charges for the year ended December 31, 1996, would have
     been 13.3. 

(c)  Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 1994, excludes
     nonrecurring income related to the favorable settlement of income tax
     disputes with the Internal Revenue Service.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-13
<SEQUENCE>4
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL SECTION
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
                                                                      EXHIBIT 13

FINANCIAL SECTION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.



 1        Selected Financial Data

 2        Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
           Condition and Results of Operations
         
 9        Consolidated Balance Sheet

10        Consolidated Statement of Income
    
11        Consolidated Statement of Common
           Stockholders' Equity

12        Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

13        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

22        Report of Independent Accountants

23        Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)

24        Board of Directors
   
25        Senior Management and Officers

26        Additional Information



<PAGE>
 
 
SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Dollars in millions, except per share results
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
For the years ended December 31,  1996 (A)         1995(b)     1994 (c)           1993          1992 (d)

SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
<S>                          <C>               <C>          <C>                <C>        <C>
Revenues:
 Premiums:
    Commercial               $    4,326        $    2,934   $    2,056         $  1,709    $   1,642
    Medicare risk                 1,907             1,569        1,406            1,296        1,112
    CHAMPUS                         351
    Medicare supplement              93               102          114              132          127
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
      Total premiums              6,677             4,605        3,576            3,137        2,881
 Interest                           101                87           62               48           36
 Other income                        10                10           16               10            4
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    Total revenues                6,788             4,702        3,654            3,195        2,921
Income (loss) before income 
 taxes                               18               288          257              143         (154)
Net income (loss)                    12               190          176               89         (107)
Earnings (loss) per common 
 share                              .07              1.17         1.10              .56         (.68)
Net cash provided by operations     341               150          298              185          124

FINANCIAL POSITION
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Cash and investments         $    1,727        $    1,518   $    1,203         $  1,134    $     614
Total assets                      3,153             2,878        1,957            1,731        1,189
Medical costs payable             1,099               866          527              448          400
Debt and other long-term
 obligations                        361               399           83               71           80
Stockholders' equity              1,292             1,287        1,058              889          376

OPERATING DATA
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Medical loss ratio                 84.3%             81.7%        81.6%            83.8%        86.3%
Administrative cost ratio          15.5%             13.9%        13.6%            13.2%        14.1%
Medical membership:
  Commercial                  2,814,800         2,883,900    1,528,300        1,214,000    1,219,800
  Medicare risk                 364,500           310,400      287,400          270,800      266,300
  CHAMPUS                     1,103,000
  Medicare supplement            97,700           115,000      131,700          153,600      198,900
                            -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                              4,380,000         3,309,300    1,947,400        1,638,400    1,685,000
  Administrative services       471,000           495,100       93,500           63,700       30,600
                            -----------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Total                    4,851,000         3,804,400    2,040,900        1,702,100    1,715,600
                            =============================================================================
 
Specialty membership:
   Dental                       844,800           797,000
   Group life                   642,700           576,300
   Workers' compensation        132,700           234,200
   Other                        264,000           252,500
                            -----------------------------
     Total                    1,884,200         1,860,000
                            =============================
</TABLE>

(a)  Includes special charges of $215 million pretax ($140 million after tax or
     $.86 per share) related to the restructuring of the Washington, D.C.,
     health plan, provision for expected future losses on insurance contracts,
     closing 13 service areas, discontinuing unprofitable products in three
     markets, a litigation settlement, and planned workforce reductions.
(b)  Includes the operations of EMPHESYS Financial Group, Inc. since October 11,
     1995, the date of acquisition.
(c)  Includes nonrecurring income of $11 million pretax ($17 million after tax
     or $.10 per share) related to the favorable settlement of income tax
     disputes with the Internal Revenue Service partially offset by the write-
     down of a nonoperational asset.
(d)  Includes $171 million pretax ($118 million after tax or $.75 per share) of
     restructuring and unusual charges.

                                       1





<PAGE>
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.

The consolidated financial statements of Humana Inc.  ("Humana" or the
"Company") in this Annual Report present the Company's financial position,
results of operations, and cash flows and should be read in conjunction with the
following discussion and analysis.  This discussion and analysis contains both
historical and forward-looking information.  The forward-looking statements may
be significantly impacted by risks and uncertainties and are made pursuant to
the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of
1995.  There can be no assurance that anticipated future results will be
achieved.  Readers are cautioned that a number of factors, which are described
herein and defined below, could adversely affect the Company's ability to obtain
these results, including the effects of either federal or state health care
reform, renewal of the Company's Medicare risk contracts with the federal
government, the renewal of the Company's CHAMPUS contract with the federal
government, and the effects of other general business conditions, including but
not limited to,  government regulation, competition, premium rate changes,
medical cost trends, changes in Commercial and Medicare risk membership, capital
requirements, general economic conditions and the retention of key employees.
Readers are also directed to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 1996, for additional discussion of risk factors.

INTRODUCTION
- ------------

The Company offers managed health care products that integrate medical
management with the delivery of health care services through a network of
providers.  This network of providers may share financial risk or have
incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner.
These products are marketed primarily through health maintenance organizations
("HMOs") and preferred provider organizations ("PPOs") that encourage or require
the use of contracting providers.  HMOs and PPOs control health care costs by
various means, including pre-admission approval for hospital inpatient services
and pre-authorization of outpatient surgical procedures.  The Company also
offers various specialty and administrative service products including dental,
group life, workers' compensation, and pharmacy benefit  management services.

The Company's HMO and PPO products are marketed primarily to employer and other
groups ("Commercial") as well as Medicare and Medicaid-eligible individuals.
The products marketed to Medicare-eligible individuals are either HMO products
("Medicare risk") or indemnity insurance policies that supplement Medicare
benefits ("Medicare supplement"). The Medicare risk product provides managed
care services that include all Medicare benefits and, in certain circumstances,
additional managed care services.

On October 11, 1995, the Company acquired EMPHESYS Financial Group, Inc.
("EMPHESYS") for a total purchase price of approximately $650 million.  The
purchase was funded through available cash of $400 million and bank borrowings
of $250 million.  EMPHESYS is a leading provider of a broad range of managed
care products to small businesses.  EMPHESYS' medical loss and administrative
cost ratios tend to be different from Humana's because of variances in the
nature of each entity's products, customer base and the manner in which products
and services are distributed to customers.

On July 1, 1996, the Company began providing managed health care services to
approximately 1.1 million eligible beneficiaries under a potential five-year
contract (a one-year contract renewable annually for up to four additional
years) with the United States Department of Defense under the Civilian Health
and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services ("CHAMPUS").  Under the CHAMPUS
contract, the Company provides managed care services to the beneficiaries of
active military personnel and retired military personnel and their beneficiaries
located in the southeastern United States.  The Company has subcontracted with
third parties to provide certain administration and specialty services under the
contract.  Three health benefit options are available to CHAMPUS beneficiaries.
In addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may enroll in an HMO
point-of-service plan or take advantage of reduced co-payments by using a
network of preferred providers.

                                       2
<PAGE>
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.

On January 31, 1997, the Company completed the sale of its Washington, D.C.,
health plan to Kaiser Foundation Health Plan of the Mid-Atlantic States, Inc.
On January 16, 1997, the Company signed a definitive agreement to sell its
Alabama operations to PrimeHealth of Alabama, Inc.  The sale excludes the
Company's small group business and the Company's Alabama CHAMPUS operations.
These transactions will not have a material impact on the Company's  financial
position, results of operations, or cash flows.



SPECIAL CHARGES
- ---------------

During the second quarter of 1996, the Company recognized special charges of
$200 million pretax ($130 million after tax or $.80 per share).  The second
quarter special charges included provisions for expected future losses on
insurance contracts ($105 million) as well as an estimate of  the costs to be
incurred in restructuring the Washington, D.C., health plan and closing markets
or discontinuing product lines in 16 service areas.   The special charges also
included the write-off of miscellaneous assets, a litigation settlement, and
other costs.  During 1996, the beneficial effect of the second quarter charges
approximated $30 million pretax ($20 million after tax or $.12 per share).  The
beneficial effect consisted primarily of charges against liabilities for
expected future losses on insurance contracts.

The second quarter special charges are presented in the accompanying
consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 1996, as
follows: the provision for expected future losses on insurance contracts ($105
million) has been included in medical costs; asset write-downs, restructuring
costs, market closing and product discontinuance costs have been included in
asset write-downs and other special charges ($81 million); and litigation and
certain other costs have been included in selling, general and administrative
expenses ($14 million).

During the fourth quarter of 1996, the Company recognized an additional special
charge of $15 million pretax ($10 million after tax or $.06 per share).  This
charge included severance and facility costs related to planned workforce
reductions, scheduled to be completed in 1997.  The fourth quarter special
charge has been included in the accompanying consolidated statement of income in
asset write-downs and other special charges.

For additional information, see Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

                                       3
<PAGE>
 
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.

COMPARISON OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- -----------------------------------
Years Ended December 31, 1996 and 1995

In order to enhance comparability, the following discussion comparing the year
ended December 31, 1996, to the year ended December 31, 1995, excludes the
impact of the $215 million pretax ($140 million after tax or $.86 per share)
asset write-downs and other special charges recorded in 1996 related to
provisions for expected future losses on insurance contracts, the restructuring
of the Washington, D.C., health plan, closing 13 service areas, discontinuing
unprofitable products in three markets, a litigation settlement, and planned
workforce reductions.

The Company's premium revenues increased 46 percent to $6.7 billion for the year
ended December 31, 1996, from $4.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 1995.
The premium revenue increase is primarily attributable to the acquisition of
EMPHESYS in the fourth quarter of 1995 and the commencing of health care
services under the CHAMPUS contract during the third quarter of 1996.  EMPHESYS
premium revenues totaled approximately $1.7 billion for the year ended December
31, 1996, compared to approximately $370 million for the period October 11
through December 31, 1995.  CHAMPUS premium revenues were approximately $351
million for the period July 1 through December 31, 1996.  During 1996,
Commercial premium rates declined 0.6 percent and the Medicare risk premium
rates increased 7.8 percent.  The effect of premium rate changes increased 1996
premium revenues by approximately $127 million.  For 1997, Commercial premium
rates are expected to increase approximately 2 to 3 percent, while Medicare risk
premium rates are expected to increase approximately 4 to 5 percent.  The
Company's expected 1997 Medicare risk premium rate increase differs from an
approximate 6 percent statutory increase as a result of a 1996 change in the
geographic mix of the Company's members.

Membership in the Company's fully insured Commercial products declined 69,100 or
2 percent during the year ended December 31, 1996, due to the closing or sale of
certain markets and the pricing of products at rates which are intended to
maintain adequate profitability. This decline compares to an increase (excluding
the EMPHESYS acquisition) of 276,900 or 19 percent for the year ended December
31, 1995. Medicare risk membership increased 54,100 or 17 percent for the year
ended December 31, 1996, compared to an increase of 23,000 or 8 percent in 1995.
Medicare supplement membership declined 17,300 during 1996, compared to a
decline of 16,700 in 1995, while administrative services only ("ASO") membership
declined 24,100 during 1996, compared to an increase (excluding the EMPHESYS
acquisition) of 184,700 during 1995. Membership changes increased 1996 premium
revenues by approximately $260 million. The membership changes which increased
premium revenues included the Medicare risk membership growth described above
and the beneficial effect on 1996 premium revenues of 1995 Commercial membership
growth partially offset by the 1996 Commercial membership declines described
above.

January 1997 fully insured Commercial membership declined 87,500 compared to a
decline of 25,000 in January 1996.  The January 1997 membership decline is the
result of the Company's new pricing discipline as well as the closing or sale of
certain markets.  Management expects  Commercial membership to be flat to
slightly down for 1997 while Medicare risk membership is expected to increase
approximately 20 percent.

Medical membership data at December 31, 1996 and 1995, follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In thousands                                           1996             1995
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                  <C>              <C>
                                                                   
Beginning medical membership                         3,804.4          2,040.9
 Same-store sales                                      783.3            739.0
 Acquisitions                                                         1,344.3
 Same-store cancellations                             (839.7)          (319.8)
 CHAMPUS                                             1,103.0        
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending medical membership                            4,851.0          3,804.4
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

                                       4

<PAGE>
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.

The Company's medical loss ratio increased to 82.7 percent (excluding special
charges) for the year ended December 31, 1996, from 81.7 percent for the year
ended December 31, 1995.  The increase in the medical loss ratio was due to
increased medical costs during a Commercial pricing environment which saw
premium rates decline 0.6 percent.  Medical cost increases were most notable in
hospital outpatient, physician, and pharmacy services in both the Commercial and
Medicare risk products.  Partially offsetting these cost increases was
improvement in hospital inpatient utilization in both products.  With the
benefit of new pricing disciplines and medical management initiatives currently
underway, modest improvement in the medical loss ratio is anticipated during
1997.

The Company's administrative cost ratio was 15.3 percent (excluding special
charges) and 13.9 percent for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.  The increase in the administrative cost ratio was the result of
higher administrative costs associated with both the EMPHESYS small-group and
CHAMPUS businesses.  Excluding the effect of the EMPHESYS acquisition and the
addition of the CHAMPUS business, the Company's administrative cost ratio was
13.2 percent and 13.3 percent for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.  As a result of investment spending in such areas as customer
service, information systems and Medicare risk product growth initiatives, the
administrative cost ratio may increase modestly during 1997, most notably during
the first half of the year.

Interest income totaled $101 million for the year ended December 31, 1996,
compared to $87 million for the year ended December 31, 1995.  The increase is
primarily attributable to higher levels of cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities resulting from the addition of EMPHESYS.  The tax equivalent yield on
invested assets approximated 8 percent for the years ended December 31, 1996 and
1995.  Tax equivalent yield is the rate earned on invested assets, excluding
unrealized gains and losses, adjusted for the benefit of nontaxable investment
income.  The weighted average investment life decreased to 3.1 years at December
31, 1996, from 4.0 years at December 31, 1995.

Income before income taxes, excluding the $215 million special charges
previously discussed, totaled $234 million for the year ended December 31, 1996,
compared to $288 million for the year ended December 31, 1995.  Net income, also
excluding the special charges, was $152 million or $.93 per share for the year
ended December 31, 1996, compared to $190 million or $1.17 per share for the
year ended December 31, 1995.

Years Ended December 31, 1995 and 1994

In order to enhance comparability, the following discussion comparing the year
ended December 31, 1995, to the year ended December 31, 1994, excludes the
impact of the $11 million pretax ($17 million after tax or $.10 per share)
nonrecurring income recorded in 1994 related to the favorable settlement of
income tax disputes with the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") partially
offset by the write-down of a nonoperational asset.

The Company's premium revenues increased 29 percent to $4.6 billion for the year
ended December 31, 1995, from $3.6 billion for the year ended December 31, 1994.
The increase in premium revenues was attributable to the acquisition of
EMPHESYS, same-store membership gains, and the 1994 acquisitions of CareNetwork,
Inc. and Group Health Association.  The Company's 5 percent increase in Medicare
risk premium rates was generally offset by a 2 percent reduction in Commercial
premium rates.

Membership in the Company's Commercial products increased 1,355,600 or 89
percent during the year ended December 31, 1995, which included 1.1 million
fully-insured members resulting from the acquisition of EMPHESYS.  On a same-
store basis, Commercial membership for the year ended December 31, 1995,
increased 276,900 or 19 percent compared to 113,200 or 9 percent in 1994.
Medicare risk membership increased 23,000 or 8 percent for the year ended
December 31, 1995, compared to an increase of 16,600 or 6 percent in 1994.
Medicare supplement membership declined 16,700 members during the year ended
December 31, 1995.  ASO membership at December 31, 1995, increased to 495,100
members, including 216,900 members of EMPHESYS, from 93,500 members at December
31, 1994.

                                       5
<PAGE>
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.


Medical membership data at December 31, 1995 and 1994, follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In thousands                                      1995                  1994
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                             <C>                   <C>
Beginning medical membership                    2,040.9               1,702.1
 Same-store sales                                 739.0                 396.6
 Acquisitions                                   1,344.3                 224.1
 Same-store cancellations                        (319.8)               (281.9)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Ending medical membership                       3,804.4               2,040.9
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

Excluding EMPHESYS, the Company's medical loss ratio increased to 82.0 percent
for the year ended December 31, 1995, from 81.6 percent for the year ended
December 31, 1994.  The increase in the medical loss ratio was related primarily
to an increase in hospital outpatient, physician, and pharmacy services in the
Commercial product. In addition, the Company experienced greater than expected
medical costs for membership in areas contiguous to existing markets, which was
where a significant amount of 1995 membership growth occurred.   Including
EMPHESYS, the Company's 1995 medical loss ratio was 81.7 percent.

The Company's administrative cost ratio was 13.9 percent and 13.6 percent for
the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  The increase in the
administrative cost ratio was the result of higher administrative costs
associated with EMPHESYS' small-group business.  Excluding the effect of the
EMPHESYS acquisition, the Company's administrative cost ratio was 13.3 percent
for the year ended December 31, 1995.  The reduction from 1994 was the result of
increased premium revenues benefitting the fixed portion of administrative
costs.

Interest income totaled $87 million for the year ended December 31, 1995,
compared to $62 million for the year ended December 31, 1994.  The increase was
primarily attributable to increased yields and higher levels of cash, cash
equivalents and marketable securities resulting from the addition of EMPHESYS.
The tax equivalent yield on invested assets approximated 8 percent and 6 percent
for the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  The weighted
average investment life increased to 4.0 years at December 31, 1995, from 2.3
years at December 31, 1994, primarily related to the addition of EMPHESYS'
portfolio.

Income before income taxes, excluding the $11 million nonrecurring income
previously discussed, totaled $288 million for the year ended December 31, 1995,
compared to $246 million for the year ended December 31, 1994.  Net income, also
excluding the nonrecurring income, increased to $190 million or $1.17 per share
from $159 million or $1.00 per share for the years ended December 31, 1995 and
1994, respectively.



LIQUIDITY
- ---------

Cash provided by the Company's operations totaled $341 million and $150 million
for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The increase in
operating cash flows was primarily attributable to the timing of payments for
medical costs and other liabilities, due in large part to the commencing of
operations under the CHAMPUS contract.  Also impacting operating cash flows was
a decrease in net income.

                                       6
<PAGE>
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.


Cash provided by the Company's operations totaled $150 million and $298 million
for the years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  Operating cash
flows for 1995 were below those of 1994 primarily as a result of a $71 million
favorable settlement of tax disputes with the IRS received in 1994. The timing
of cash receipts and disbursements related to premiums receivable, medical costs
and other liabilities further reduced 1995 operating cash flows.

The Company maintains a  revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement")
which provides a revolving line of credit of up to $600 million.  Principal
amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement bear interest depending on the
ratio of debt to debt plus net worth at rates ranging from LIBOR plus 16 basis
points to LIBOR plus 40 basis points.  The Credit Agreement, under which there
were no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 1996, contains customary
covenants and events of default and expires in September 2000.

On April 16, 1996, the Company implemented a commercial paper program and began
issuing debt securities thereunder. At December 31, 1996, borrowings under the
commercial paper program totaled approximately $222 million.  The average
interest rate for 1996 borrowings was 5.6 percent.  Borrowings under the
commercial paper program have been classified as long-term debt based on
management's ability and intent to refinance borrowings on a long-term basis.
The commercial paper program is backed by the Credit Agreement.

The Company's subsidiaries operate in states which require minimum levels of
equity and regulate the payment of dividends to the parent company.  As a
result, the Company's ability to use operating subsidiaries' cash flows is
restricted to the extent of the subsidiaries' ability to obtain regulatory
approval to pay dividends.

Management believes that existing working capital, future operating cash flows,
and funds available under the Credit Agreement and commercial paper program are
sufficient to meet future liquidity needs.   Management also believes the
aforementioned sources of funds are adequate to allow the Company to pursue
strategic acquisition and expansion opportunities, as well as fund capital
requirements.

CAPITAL RESOURCES
- -----------------

The Company's ongoing capital expenditures relate primarily to medical care
facilities used by either employed or affiliated physicians, as well as
administrative facilities and related information systems necessary for
activities such as claims processing, billing and collections, medical
utilization review, and customer service.  Total capital expenditures, excluding
acquisitions, were  $72 million, $54 million, and $39 million for the years
ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

Excluding acquisitions, planned capital spending in 1997 will approximate $80 to
$90 million for the expansion and improvement of medical care facilities,
administrative facilities and related information systems.

                                       7
<PAGE>
 
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.

EFFECTS OF INFLATION AND CHANGING PRICES
- ----------------------------------------


The Company's operations are regulated by various state and federal government
agencies.  Actuarially determined premium rate increases for Commercial and
Medicare supplement products are generally approved by the respective state
insurance commissioners, while increases in premiums for Medicare risk products
are established and implemented by the Health Care Financing Administration.
Medicare risk premiums approximated 29 percent, 34 percent and 39 percent of the
Company's premium revenues for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  The Company's 1997 average rate of statutory increase under the
Medicare risk contracts is approximately 6 percent.  However, the Company's
expected 1997 Medicare risk premium rate increase differs from the 6 percent
statutory increase as a result of a change in the geographic mix of the
Company's members.  Over the last five years, annual increases have ranged from
as low as 3 percent in January 1994 to as high as 12 percent in January 1993,
with an average of approximately 7 percent, including the January 1997 increase.
The Company's Medicare risk contracts with the federal government are renewed
for a one-year term each December 31 unless terminated 90 days prior thereto.
Current legislative proposals are being considered which include modification of
future reimbursement rates under the Medicare program and which encourage the
use of managed health care for Medicare beneficiaries.  Management is unable to
predict the outcome of these proposals or the impact they may have on the
Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Additionally, the Company's CHAMPUS contract is a one year contract renewable
annually for up to four additional years.  The loss of these contracts or
significant changes in these programs as a result of legislative action,
including reductions in payments or increases in benefits without corresponding
increases in payments, would have a material adverse effect on the revenues,
profitability, and business prospects of the Company.



OTHER INFORMATION
- -----------------

Resolution of various loss contingencies, including litigation pending against
the Company in the ordinary course of business, is not expected to have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial position,  results of
operations, or cash flows.

                                       8
<PAGE>
 
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
Dollars in millions, except per share amounts
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
December 31,                                                     1996      1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
<S>                                                            <C>      <C>
ASSETS
Current assets:
 Cash and cash equivalents                                     $  322    $  182
 Marketable securities                                          1,262     1,156
 Premiums receivable, less allowance for doubtful
   accounts of $38 in 1996 and $36 in 1995                        211       131
 Deferred income taxes                                             94        52
 Other                                                            113        72
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total current assets                                         2,002     1,593
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Property and equipment, net                                       371       382
Other assets:
 Long-term marketable securities                                  143       180
 Cost in excess of net assets acquired                            488       536
 Deferred income taxes                                             17        25
 Other                                                            132       162
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total other assets                                             780       903
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total Assets                                                  $3,153    $2,878
================================================================================
 
LIABILITIES AND COMMON STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Current liabilities:
 Medical costs payable                                         $1,099    $  866
 Trade accounts payable and accrued expenses                      369       291
 Income taxes payable                                              32        35
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total current liabilities                                    1,500     1,192
Long-term debt                                                    225       250
Professional liability and other obligations                      136       149
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total liabilities                                            1,861     1,591
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Contingencies
Common stockholders' equity:
 Common stock, $.16 2/3 par; authorized 300,000,000
   shares; issued and outstanding 162,681,123 shares - 1996
   and 162,099,403 shares - 1995                                   27        27
 Capital in excess of par value                                   822       815
 Retained earnings                                                451       439
 Net unrealized investment gains (losses)                          (8)        6
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Total common stockholders' equity                            1,292     1,287
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 Total Liabilities and Common Stockholders' Equity             $3,153    $2,878
================================================================================
</TABLE>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

                                       9
<PAGE>
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.

<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
Dollars in millions, except per share results
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Years Ended December 31,                     1996            1995          1994
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         
<S>                                        <C>             <C>           <C> 
Revenues:                                
 Premiums                                  $6,677          $4,605        $3,576
 Interest                                     101              87            62
 Other income                                  10              10            16
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         
   Total revenues                           6,788           4,702         3,654
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         
Operating expenses:                      
 Medical costs                              5,625           3,762         2,918
 Selling, general and                                                   
  administrative                              940             571           436
 Depreciation and amortization                 98              70            50
 Asset write-downs and other                                            
  special charges                              96                            18
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         
   Total operating expenses                 6,759           4,403         3,422
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                         
Income from operations                         29             299           232
                                                   
Interest expense (recovery)                    11              11           (25)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   
Income before income taxes                     18             288           257
                                                   
Provision for income taxes                      6              98            81
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                   
Net income                                 $   12          $  190        $  176
================================================================================
                                                    
Earnings per common share                    $.07        $   1.17      $   1.10
================================================================================
</TABLE> 


The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

                                       10
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMMON STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.
 
In millions
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                       Total
                                                            Capital In              Net Unrealized     Common
                                           Common Stock      Excess of   Retained     Investment    Stockholders'
                                           ------------
                                       Shares       Amount   Par Value   Earnings   Gains (Losses)    Equity  
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                             
<S>                                    <C>          <C>      <C>         <C>        <C>             <C>
Balance, January 1, 1994                 160        $27        $785        $ 73        $  4          $  889
                                                                                                 
 Net income                                                                 176                         176
                                                                                                 
 Other                                     1                     18                     (25)             (7)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                 
Balance, December 31, 1994               161         27         803         249         (21)          1,058
                                                                                                 
 Net income                                                                 190                         190
                                                                                                 
 Other                                     1                     12                      27              39
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                 
Balance, December 31, 1995               162         27         815         439           6           1,287
                                                                                                 
 Net income                                                                  12                          12

 Other                                     1                      7                     (14)             (7)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                                 
BALANCE, DECEMBER 31, 1996               163        $27        $822        $451        $ (8)         $1,292
==================================================================================================================
</TABLE>



The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

                                       11
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.

Dollars in millions
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Years Ended December 31,                            1996        1995          1994
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                <C>         <C>           <C>
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:

 Net income                                        $  12       $ 190         $ 176
 Adjustments to reconcile net income                                                           
   to net cash provided by operating activities:                                              
     Asset write-downs                                70                        18
     Depreciation and amortization                    98          70            50
     Deferred income taxes                           (25)         13            58
     Changes in operating assets and liabilities:                                                     
       Premiums receivable                           (81)        (27)           (8)   
       Other assets                                  (31)         (4)            8
       Medical costs payable                         215          (9)           36  
       Other liabilities                              81         (83)           67
       Unearned premium revenues                                              (110)
     Other                                             2                         3
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Net cash provided by operating activities         341         150           298
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                             
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:                                                                 

 Acquisitions of health plan assets                   (6)       (697)         (162)
 Purchases of property and equipment                 (72)        (54)          (39)
 Dispositions of property and equipment                5           5            13
 Purchases of marketable securities                 (440)       (402)         (523)
 Maturities and sales of marketable securities       356         731           337
 Other                                               (17)        (33)          (28)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Net cash used in investing activities            (174)       (450)         (402)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:                                               

 Issuance of long-term debt                                      250
 Repayment of long-term debt                        (250)        (51)
 Net commercial paper borrowings                     222   
 Other                                                 1          11             4
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Net cash (used in) provided by financing
    activities                                       (27)        210             4
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents     140         (90)         (100)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period     182         272           372
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Cash and cash equivalents at end of period          $322        $182          $272
=====================================================================================
                                                                    
Interest payments (refunds), net                    $ 11        $ 12          $(20)
Income tax payments, net                              39          94            21
</TABLE>
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial
statements.

                                       12
<PAGE>
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Humana Inc.

1.  REPORTING ENTITY

Nature of Operations

Humana Inc. ("Humana" or the "Company") offers managed health care products that
integrate medical management with the delivery of health care services through a
network of providers.  This network of providers may share financial risk or
have incentives to deliver quality medical services in a cost-effective manner.
These products are marketed primarily through health maintenance organizations
("HMOs") and preferred provider organizations ("PPOs") that encourage or require
the use of contracting providers.  HMOs and PPOs control health care costs by
various means, including pre-admission approval for hospital inpatient services
and pre-authorization of outpatient surgical procedures.  The Company also
offers various specialty and administrative service products including dental,
group life, workers' compensation, and pharmacy benefit management services.

The Company's HMO and PPO products are marketed primarily to employer and other
groups ("Commercial") as well as Medicare and Medicaid-eligible individuals.
The products marketed to Medicare-eligible individuals are either HMO products
("Medicare risk") or indemnity insurance policies that supplement Medicare
benefits ("Medicare supplement"). The Medicare risk product provides managed
care services that include all Medicare benefits and, in certain circumstances,
additional managed care services.

On July 1, 1996, the Company began providing managed health care services to
approximately 1.1 million eligible beneficiaries under a potential five-year
contract (a one-year contract renewable annually for up to four additional
years) with the United States Department of Defense under the Civilian Health
and Medical Program of the Uniformed Services ("CHAMPUS").  Under the CHAMPUS
contract, the Company provides managed care services to the beneficiaries of
active military personnel and retired military personnel and their beneficiaries
located in the southeastern United States.  The Company has subcontracted with
third parties to provide certain administration and specialty services under the
contract.  Three health benefit options are available to CHAMPUS beneficiaries.
In addition to a traditional indemnity option, participants may enroll in an HMO
point-of-service plan or take advantage of reduced co-payments by using a
network of preferred providers.

Basis of Presentation

The preparation of the Company's consolidated financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect (a) the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities, (b)  disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and (c) reported amounts of revenues and expenditures
during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.


2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include all subsidiaries of the Company.
All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

Cash and cash equivalents include cash, money market funds, commercial paper,
and certain U.S. Government securities with an original maturity of three months
or less.  Carrying value approximates fair value due to the short-term
maturities of the investments.

                                       13
<PAGE>
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.


Marketable Securities

At December 31, 1996 and 1995, marketable debt and equity securities have been
categorized as available for sale and, as a result, are stated at fair value
based generally on quoted market prices.  Commercial mortgage loans are carried
at cost.  Marketable debt and equity securities available for current operations
are classified as current assets.  Marketable securities available for the
Company's future acquisition, capital spending,  professional liability, and
long-term insurance product requirements are classified as long-term assets.
Unrealized holding gains and losses, net of applicable deferred taxes, are
included as a component of common stockholders' equity until realized.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment is carried at cost and comprises the following at
December 31, 1996 and 1995:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dollars in millions                                       1996           1995
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                      <C>            <C>
Land                                                     $  33          $  34
Buildings                                                  278            282
Equipment                                                  370            333
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                           681            649
Accumulated depreciation                                  (310)          (267)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                         $ 371          $ 382
==============================================================================
</TABLE>

Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over estimated useful
lives ranging from 3 to 25 years.  Depreciation expense was $59 million, $50
million, and $39 million for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.

Cost in Excess of Net Assets Acquired

Cost in excess of net assets acquired represents the unamortized excess of  cost
over the fair value of tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired and
is being amortized on a straight-line basis over varying periods not exceeding
40 years. The carrying values of all intangible assets are periodically reviewed
by management and impairments are recognized when the expected undiscounted
future operating cash flows derived from operations associated with such
intangible assets are less than their carrying value.  Accumulated amortization
totaled $18 million and $8 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

Revenue and Medical Cost Recognition

Premium revenues are recognized as income in the period members are entitled to
receive services.  Premiums received prior to such periods are recorded as
unearned premium revenues.

Medical costs include claim payments, capitation payments, physician salaries,
and various other costs incurred to provide medical care to members, and
estimates of future payments to hospitals and others for medical care provided
prior to the balance sheet date.  Capitation payments represent monthly prepaid
fees paid to participating primary care physicians and other providers, who are
responsible for providing medical care to  members.  The estimates of future
medical claim payments are developed using actuarial methods and assumptions
based upon payment patterns, medical inflation, historical development, and
other relevant factors.  Estimates of future payments relating to services
incurred in the current and prior periods are continually reviewed by management
and adjusted as necessary.  Management believes the Company's medical costs
payable are adequate to cover claims incurred; however, such estimates are
subject to changes in assumption, and therefore, the actual liability could
differ from amounts provided.

Earnings per Common Share

Earnings per common share are based upon the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding.  Shares used in computing earnings per common share were
162,531,524, 162,268,815, and 160,910,641 for the years ended December 31, 1996,
1995 and 1994, respectively.

                                       14
<PAGE>
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.


3.  SPECIAL CHARGES

During the second quarter of 1996, the Company recognized special charges of
$200 million pretax ($130 million after tax or $.80 per share).  The second
quarter special charges included provisions for expected future losses on
insurance contracts ($105 million) as well as an estimate of  the costs to be
incurred in restructuring the Washington, D.C., health plan and closing markets
or discontinuing product lines in 16 market areas.   The special charges also
included the write-off of miscellaneous assets, a litigation settlement, and
other costs.  During 1996, the beneficial effect of the second quarter charges
approximated $30 million pretax ($20 million after tax or $.12 per share).  The
beneficial effect consisted primarily of charges against liabilities for
expected future losses on insurance contracts.

The special charges included $70 million of asset write-downs, related to long-
lived assets, primarily associated with the Company's Washington, D.C., health
plan.  In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121,
"Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to
Be Disposed Of, " the Company conducted a review of the carrying value of its
Washington, D.C., health plan's long-lived assets.  This review was initiated
because the health plan was experiencing significant operating losses.  A
forecast of expected undiscounted future cash flows was prepared to determine
whether an impairment existed and fair values were used to measure the amount of
the impairment.  As a result of the review, the Washington, D.C.,  health plan's
long-lived assets were written down to their estimated fair value.

The second quarter special charges have been included in the accompanying
consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 1996, as
follows: the provision for expected future losses on insurance contracts ($105
million) has been included in medical costs; asset write-downs, restructuring
costs, market closing and product discontinuance costs have been included in
asset write-downs and other special charges ($81 million); and litigation and
certain other costs have been included in selling, general and administrative
expenses ($14 million).

During the fourth quarter of 1996, the Company recognized an additional special
charge of $15 million pretax ($10 million after taxes or $.06 per share).  This
charge included severance and facility costs related to planned workforce
reductions, scheduled to be completed in 1997.  The fourth quarter special
charge has been included in the accompanying consolidated statement of income in
asset write-downs and other special charges.

The components and usage of the 1996 special charges follows:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                           Liability For        Asset
                                          Expected Future   Write-downs &
                                             Losses On        Workforce
Dollars in millions                     Insurance Contracts   Reductions     Other         Total
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                     <C>                 <C>              <C>           <C>
Provision for special charges                   $105           $ 96          $ 14          $215

1996 usage (cash)                                (30)           (11)          (10)          (51)

1996 usage (non-cash)                                           (70)                        (70)
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances at December 31, 1996                   $ 75           $ 15          $  4          $ 94
====================================================================================================
</TABLE>

On January 31, 1997, the Company completed the sale of its Washington, D.C.,
health plan.   On January 16, 1997, the Company signed a definitive agreement to
sell its Alabama operations.  These transactions will further reduce the
liability for expected future losses on insurance contracts by approximately $30
to $35 million.  As a result, these transactions will not have a material impact
on the Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

                                       15
<PAGE>
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.


At December 31, 1996, there were additional liabilities totaling approximately
$50 million included in the accompanying consolidated balance sheet, primarily
related to contract disputes.  This liability was originally recognized  in
August 1992.  Management regularly evaluates the continued reasonableness of
this liability, as well as the 1996 special charges, and to the extent
adjustments are necessary, current earnings are charged or credited.

In June 1994, the Company recorded an $18 million pretax charge ($11 million
after tax or $.07 per share) to reduce the net book value of a nonoperational
asset to its estimated fair value.

4.  MARKETABLE SECURITIES

Marketable securities classified as current assets at December 31, 1996 and
1995, included the following:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         1996                                                  1995
                                  --------------------------------------------------       -----------------------------------------
                                                     Gross       Gross                                      Gross      Gross
                                  Amortized       Unrealized  Unrealized        Fair       Amortized     Unrealized Unrealized  Fair
Dollars in millions                  Cost           Gains       Losses         Value          Cost          Gains     Losses   Value
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>             <C>         <C>             <C>          <C>           <C>        <C>       <C>

U.S. Government securities           $  67                      $  (1)        $   66         $   77          $  1        $(1) $   77
Tax exempt municipal bonds             613          $   3          (6)           610            560             6         (3)    563
Corporate bonds                        313              1          (3)           311            331             9                340
Redeemable preferred stock             117                         (1)           116             13                               13
Marketable equity
 securities                             79              2          (3)            78             57             1         (4)     54
Collateralized mortgage
 obligations                            54              1                         55             90             2                 92
Other                                   23              6          (3)            26             16             1                 17
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    $1,266          $  13       $ (17)        $1,262         $1,144           $ 20       $(8) $1,156
====================================================================================================================================
</TABLE> 

Marketable securities classified as long-term assets at December 31, 1996 and
1995, included the following:
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                         1996                                                  1995
                                  --------------------------------------------------       -----------------------------------------
                                                     Gross       Gross                                      Gross      Gross
                                  Amortized       Unrealized  Unrealized        Fair       Amortized     Unrealized Unrealized  Fair
Dollars in millions                  Cost           Gains       Losses         Value          Cost          Gains     Losses   Value
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                               <C>             <C>         <C>             <C>          <C>           <C>        <C>       <C>

Tax exempt municipal bonds           $  77                      $  (1)        $   76         $   65           $  1       $(3) $   63
Redeemable preferred stocks              9                                         9             50                               50
Marketable equity securities             5                                         5              8                                8
Other                                   52          $   1                         53             59                               59
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      $143          $   1       $  (1)        $  143         $  182           $  1       $(3) $  180
====================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

The contractual maturities of debt securities available for sale at December 31,
1996, regardless of their balance sheet classification, are shown below.
Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities because borrowers may
have the right to call or prepay obligations with or without call or prepayment
penalties.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                  Amortized                       Fair
Dollars in millions                                                                 Cost                         Value
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                                               <C>                            <C>
Due within one year                                                                  $  117                      $  113
Due after one year through five years                                                   438                         437
Due after five years through ten years                                                  261                         264
Due after ten years                                                                     134                         138
Not due at a single maturity date                                                       375                         370
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                                     $1,325                      $1,322
====================================================================================================================================
</TABLE>

Gross realized gains and losses for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995,
were immaterial.  For the purpose of determining gross realized gains and
losses, the cost of securities sold is based upon specific identification.

                                       16
<PAGE>
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.


5.  INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes consisted of the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                 Years Ended December 31,
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dollars in millions                                1996    1995   1994
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>     <C>    <C>
Current provision:                           
  Federal                                         $  30   $  78  $  72
  State                                               1       7     11
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     31      85     83
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Deferred provision (benefit):                
  Federal                                           (23)     11     (2)
  State                                              (2)      2
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                    (25)     13     (2)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  $   6   $  98  $  81
================================================================================
</TABLE>

The income tax provision was different from the amount computed using the
federal statutory income tax rate due to the following:

<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                  Years Ended December 31,
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dollars in millions                                1996    1995    1994
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                               <C>     <C>     <C>
Income tax provision at federal statutory rate    $   6   $ 101   $  90
State income taxes, net of federal benefit            1       7       7
Tax exempt investment income                        (12)    (12)    (12)
Amortization                                         12       6       1
Other items, net                                     (1)     (4)     (5)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  $   6   $  98   $  81
================================================================================
</TABLE>

Cumulative temporary differences which gave rise to deferred tax assets and
liabilities at December 31, 1996 and 1995, were as follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                    Assets (Liabilities)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dollars in millions                                   1996       1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                  <C>        <C>
Marketable securities                                $   2      $  (9)
Long-term assets                                       (41)       (35)
Medical costs payable                                   28         27
Liabilities for special charges                         46         25
Professional liability risks                            34         28
Other                                                   42         41
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                     $ 111      $  77
================================================================================
</TABLE>

Management believes that the deferred tax assets ultimately will be realized
based primarily on the existence of sufficient taxable income within the
allowable carryback periods.

                                       17
<PAGE>
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.

During 1994, the Company received $71 million in income tax refunds for the
settlement of disputes with the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") related to
the timing of medical claims deductions and the deductibility of intangible
amortization for tax years 1988 through 1991.  The Company had previously
prepaid tax and interest for these issues for the 1988 and 1989 tax years to
stop the accrual of interest expense on the disputed amounts. As a result of the
settlement, the Company recognized a $29 million reduction of interest expense
($18 million after tax or $.11 per share) and a $10 million reduction of tax
expense ($.06 per share), both of which represented the cumulative effect from
1988 to 1994 of amounts previously provided. During 1995, the Company made a $30
million payment to the IRS to stop the accrual of interest expense and resolve
disputed amounts related to tax periods September 1, 1991, through December 31,
1993.

At December 31, 1996, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of
approximately $28 million related to prior acquisitions.  These loss
carryforwards, if unused to offset future taxable income of the acquired
subsidiaries, will expire in 2002 through 2008.


6.  LONG-TERM DEBT

The Company maintains a revolving credit agreement (the "Credit Agreement")
which provides a revolving line of credit of up to $600 million.  Principal
amounts outstanding under the Credit Agreement bear interest depending on the
ratio of debt to debt plus net worth at rates ranging from LIBOR plus 16 basis
points to LIBOR plus 40 basis points. The Credit Agreement, under which there
were no outstanding borrowings at December 31, 1996, contains customary
covenants and events of default and expires in September 2000.

On April 16, 1996, the Company implemented a commercial paper program and began
issuing debt securities thereunder. At December 31, 1996, borrowings under the
commercial paper program totaled approximately $222 million.  The average
interest rate for 1996 borrowings was 5.6 percent.   Borrowings under the
commercial paper program have been classified as long-term debt based on
management's ability and intent to refinance borrowings on a long-term basis.
The commercial paper program is backed by the Credit Agreement.


7.  PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY AND OTHER OBLIGATIONS

The Company insures substantially all professional liability risks through a
wholly owned subsidiary (the "Subsidiary").  Provisions for such risks,
including expenses incident to claim settlements, were $31 million, $27 million,
and $22 million for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.  The Subsidiary reinsures levels of coverage for losses in excess
of its retained limits with unrelated insurance carriers.  Allowance for
professional liability risks and the equivalent amounts of marketable securities
related to the funding thereof included in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet were $95 million and $78 million at December 31, 1996 and 1995,
respectively.

In addition to the long-term portion of the allowance for professional liability
risks, professional liability and other obligations in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheet consists primarily of liabilities for disability and
other long-term insurance products and the Company's employee retirement and
benefit plans.  These liabilities totaled $61 million and $87 million at
December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

                                       18
<PAGE>
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.

8.  COMMON STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

As a result of state regulatory requirements, the Company must maintain certain
levels of equity in its licensed subsidiaries.  The Company's ability to make
use of the equity of its subsidiaries is subject to these equity restrictions
as well as regulatory approval.

In 1987, the Company adopted and in 1996 amended a stockholders' rights plan
designed to deter takeover initiatives not considered to be in the best
interests of the Company's stockholders.   The rights are redeemable by action
of the Company's Board of Directors at a price of $.01 per right at any time
prior to their becoming exercisable.  Pursuant to the plan, under certain
conditions, each share of stock has a right to acquire 1/100th of a share of
Series A Participating Preferred Stock at a price of $145 per share.  The plan
expires in 2006.

The Company has plans under which options to purchase common stock have been
granted to officers, directors and key employees.  Options are granted at market
price on the date of grant.  Exercise provisions vary, but most options vest in
whole or in part one to five years after grant and expire ten years after grant.
At December 31, 1996, there were 15,431,887 shares reserved for employee and
director stock option plans.  At December 31, 1996, there were 4,510,000 shares
of common stock available for future grants.  In January 1997, a total of
2,130,000 options were granted.

The Company's option plan activity for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995
and 1994, is summarized below:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                                            Weighted
                                Shares               Exercise Price         Average  
                              Under Option             Per Share          Exercise Price
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                           <C>            <C>                          <C>
Balance, January 1, 1994       8,519,735     $ 4.32    to    $14.44         $ 7.40
  Granted                        419,500      16.94    to     17.94          17.67
  Exercised                     (931,701)      4.32    to     11.01           8.66
  Canceled or lapsed            (337,333)      6.56    to     17.94           8.84
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1994     7,670,201       4.32    to     17.94           7.75
  Granted                      3,107,000      18.94    to     23.06          22.84
  Exercised                     (751,096)      4.32    to     11.90           8.35
  Canceled or lapsed            (190,250)      6.56    to     23.06          13.11
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1995     9,835,855       4.32    to     23.06          12.37
  Granted                      1,888,500      15.63    to     27.56          19.74
  Exercised                     (454,044)      4.32    to     23.06           8.11
  Canceled or lapsed            (348,424)      6.56    to     27.56          15.87
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balance, December 31, 1996    10,921,887     $ 4.32    to    $26.94         $13.71
=============================================================================================
</TABLE>
A summary of stock options outstanding and exercisable at December 31, 1996
follows:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                Stock Options                    Stock Options
                                                 Outstanding                      Exercisable
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                  Weighted
                                                  Average       Weighted                  Weighted
                                                 Remaining      Average                   Average
       Range of                                 Contractual     Exercise                  Exercise
    Exercise Prices                Shares          Life          Price        Shares       Price
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>             <C>             <C>         <C>           <C>
 $  4.32   to    $ 6.56         4,027,261        5.4 years       $ 6.54     2,436,011       $ 6.52
    6.70   to      9.64         1,608,645        5.3 years         7.96       938,895         7.93
   10.54   to     14.44           202,950        4.2 years        11.19       195,450        11.21
   15.63   to     22.44         2,110,500        9.2 years        18.60       161,716        18.78
   22.63   to     26.94         2,972,531        7.5 years        23.23     1,054,897        23.06
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 $  4.32   to    $26.94        10,921,887        6.7 years       $13.71     4,786,969       $11.05
=====================================================================================================
</TABLE>

                                       19
<PAGE>
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.

As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, there were 2,079,980 and 1,304,201 options
exercisable, respectively.  The weighted average exercise price of options
exercisable during 1995 and 1994 was $7.51 and $8.41, respectively.

The Company has adopted the disclosure-only provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," ("SFAS
No. 123") but continues to apply Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 and
related interpretations in the accounting for its stock option plans. If the
Company had adopted the expense recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123 for
purposes of determining compensation expense related to stock options granted
during the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, net income and earnings per
common share would have been changed to the pro forma amounts shown below:
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                              Years Ended
                                                              December 31,
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dollars in millions, except per share results            1996              1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                             <C>                     <C>               <C>
Net income                      As reported             $  12             $ 190
                                Pro forma                   4               181
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Earnings per common share       As reported             $ .07             $1.17
                                Pro forma                 .02              1.11
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
</TABLE>

The fair value of each option granted during 1996 and 1995 was estimated on the
date of grant using an option-pricing model (Black-Scholes) with the following
weighted average assumptions: (i) no dividend yield, (ii) an expected volatility
of 40.2 percent, (iii) a risk-free interest rate of 7.0 percent, and (iv) an
expected option life of 5.8 years.   Based upon the above assumptions, the
weighted average fair value at grant date of options granted during 1996 and
1995 was $8.92 and $9.57, respectively.  The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 in
the pro forma disclosures are not likely to be representative of the effects on
pro forma net income for future years because variables such as option grants,
exercises, and stock price volatility included in the disclosures may not be
indicative of future activity.

9.  CONTINGENCIES

The Company's Medicare risk contracts with the federal government are renewed
for a one-year term each December 31 unless terminated 90 days prior thereto.
Current legislative proposals are being considered which include modification of
future reimbursement rates under the Medicare program and which encourage the
use of managed health care for Medicare beneficiaries.  Management is unable to
predict the outcome of these proposals or the impact they may have on the
Company's financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.
Additionally, the Company's CHAMPUS contract is a one year contract renewable
annually for up to four additional years.  The loss of these contracts or
significant changes in these programs as a result of legislative action,
including reductions in payments or increases in benefits without corresponding
increases in payments, would have a material adverse effect on the revenues,
profitability, and business prospects of the Company.

During the ordinary course of business, the Company is subject to pending and
threatened legal actions.  Management of the Company does not believe that any
of these actions will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
position, results of operations, or cash flows.

The Company remains contingently liable as guarantor for approximately $55
million of debt incurred prior to the March 1, 1993, separation of Humana's
managed care and hospital businesses into two independent publicly-held
companies.

                                       20

<PAGE>
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.

10.  ACQUISITIONS

On October 11, 1995, the Company acquired EMPHESYS Financial Group, Inc.
("EMPHESYS") for a total purchase price of approximately $650 million.  The
purchase was funded though available cash of $400 million and bank borrowings of
$250 million under the Company's Credit Agreement.    On November 30, 1995, the
Company acquired certain primary care centers in South Florida and Tampa
previously owned by Coastal Physician Group, Inc. for approximately $50 million.
During the year ended December 31, 1994, the Company acquired two health plans
for approximately $181 million.

The above acquisitions, and certain other minor acquisitions,  were accounted
for under the purchase method.  In connection with these acquisitions, the
Company allocated the acquisition costs to tangible and identifiable intangible
assets based upon their fair values. Identifiable intangible assets, which are
included in other long-term assets in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheet, include subscriber and provider contracts, and at December 31, 1996 and
1995, totaled $88 million and $124 million, respectively.  Any remaining value
not assigned to tangible or identifiable intangible assets was then allocated to
cost in excess of net assets acquired.  Cost in excess of net tangible and
identifiable intangible assets acquired, recorded in connection with the
acquisitions, was $387 million in 1995. Subscriber and provider contracts are
amortized over their estimated useful lives (7 to 14 years) while cost in excess
of net assets acquired is amortized over periods not exceeding 40 years.

The results of operations for the previously mentioned acquisitions have been
included in the accompanying consolidated statement of income since the date of
acquisition.  The following unaudited pro forma consolidated results of
operations give effect to those acquisitions as if they had occurred on January
1, 1994:


<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
                                                          Years Ended
                                                          December 31,
   -------------------------------------------------------------------------
   Dollars in millions, except per share results      1995             1994
   -------------------------------------------------------------------------
   <S>                                              <C>              <C>
   Revenues                                         $5,968           $5,243

   Net income                                          200              215

   Earnings per common share                          1.23             1.33
</TABLE>

The unaudited pro forma information may not necessarily reflect future results
of operations or what the results of operations would have been had the
acquisitions actually been consummated on January 1, 1994.

On December 30, 1996, the Company entered into a stock purchase agreement to
acquire Health Direct, Inc. ("Health Direct") from Advocate Health Care
("Advocate") for $23 million.  Health Direct provides managed health care
services to approximately 50,000 members (including 24,000 employees of
Advocate) in the metropolitan Chicago, Illinois area.

                                       21
<PAGE>
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
To the Board of Directors
Humana Inc.

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Humana Inc.
as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related consolidated statements of
income, common stockholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years
in the period ended December 31, 1996.  These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Humana Inc. as
of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the consolidated results of operations and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1996, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.



COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
Louisville, Kentucky
February 11, 1997

                                       22
<PAGE>
 
QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Humana Inc.


A summary of the Company's quarterly results of operations follows:


<TABLE>                                                            
<CAPTION>                                                          
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dollars in millions, except 
 per share results                                      1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      First    Second (a)    Third    Fourth (b)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>      <C>           <C>      <C>
                                                                    
Revenues                              $1,588   $1,605        $1,784   $1,811
Income (loss) before income taxes         81     (146)           48       35
Net income (loss)                         53      (95)           32       22
Earnings (loss) per common share         .32     (.58)          .20      .13
</TABLE>


<TABLE>                                                            
<CAPTION>                                                          
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Dollars in millions, except 
 per share results                                      1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                      First    Second        Third    Fourth (c)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                   <C>      <C>           <C>      <C>
                                                                    
Revenues                              $1,048   $1,070        $1,094   $1,490
Income before income taxes                80       68            65       75
Net income                                53       45            43       49
Earnings per common share                .32      .28           .27      .30
</TABLE>




(a)  Includes special charges of $200 million pretax ($130 million after tax or
     $.80 per share) related to the restructuring of the Washington, D.C.,
     health plan, provision for expected future losses on insurance contracts,
     closing 13 service areas, discontinuing unprofitable products in three
     markets, and a litigation settlement.

(b)  Includes a special charge of $15 million pretax ($10 million after tax or
     $.06 per share) related to planned workforce reductions.

(c)  Includes the results of EMPHESYS Financial Group, Inc. since October 11,
     1995, the date of acquisition.

                                       23
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>                                   <C>
 
K. FRANK AUSTEN, M.D.                         MICHAEL E. GELLERT                    JOHN R. HALL
Theodore B. Bayles Professor of  Medicine,    General Partner, Windcrest            Retired Chairman of the Board
 Harvard Medical School and the               Partners,                             and Chief Executive Officer,
Brigham and Women's Hospital                  private investment partnership        Ashland Inc.
 
 
DAVID A. JONES                                DAVID A. JONES, JR.                   IRWIN LERNER
Chairman of the Board and Chief               Vice Chairman, Humana Inc.            Retired Chairman of the
Executive Officer, Humana Inc.                Managing Director,                    Board
                                              Chrysalis Ventures, Inc.,             and Executive Committee,
                                              venture capital firm                  Hoffmann-La Roche Inc.
 
 
 
W. ANN REYNOLDS, PH.D.
Chancellor - City University of
New York
 
</TABLE>
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                           <C>                                   <C>

DAVID A. JONES                                MICHAEL E. GELLERT                    DAVID A. JONES, JR.
Chairman


AUDIT COMMITTEE
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MICHAEL E. GELLERT                            K. FRANK AUSTEN, M.D.                 JOHN R. HALL
Chairman
 
IRWIN LERNER


COMPENSATION COMMITTEE
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

K. FRANK AUSTEN, M.D.                         MICHAEL E. GELLERT                    IRWIN LERNER
Chairman
 
W. ANN REYNOLDS, PH.D.


INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

W. ANN REYNOLDS, PH.D.                          MICHAEL E. GELLERT                  JOHN R. HALL
Chairwoman
 
DAVID A. JONES, JR.


NOMINATING COMMITTEE
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

JOHN R. HALL                                    K. FRANK AUSTEN, M.D.               DAVID A. JONES, JR.
Chairman
 
W. ANN REYNOLDS, PH.D.
</TABLE>

                                       24
<PAGE>
 
<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
SENIOR MANAGEMENT
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C> 
DAVID A. JONES                                                GREGORY H. WOLF                                 
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer             President and Chief Operating Officer           
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                             
                                                                                                             
DAVID R. ASTAR                                                KAREN A. COUGHLIN                               
Vice President-Customer Service                               Division II-President                           
and Quality                                                                                                  
                                                                                                             
KENNETH J. FASOLA                                             ARTHUR P. HIPWELL                               
Vice President and National Sales Manager                     Senior Vice President and General Counsel       
                                                                                                             
GAIL H. KNOPF                                                 MICHAEL B. MCCALLISTER                          
Vice President-Information Systems                            Division I-President                            
                                                                                                             
JAMES E. MURRAY                                               DAVID R. NELSON                                 
Chief Financial Officer                                       Vice President-Risk Management and Chief Actuary
                                                                                                             
BRUCE D. PERKINS                                              JERRY D. REEVES, M.D.                           
Senior Vice President-                                        Senior Vice President and Chief Medical Officer 
Provider Affairs and Reengineering                                                                           
                                                                                                             
GREGORY K. ROTHERHAM                                          KIRK E. ROTHROCK                                
Vice President-Marketing                                      Vice President-Specialty Products and           
                                                              Business Development                            
                                                                                                             
GEORGE W. VIETH, JR.                                          TOD J. ZACHARIAS                                
Vice President-Development and Planning                       Vice President                                  
                                                              Employers Health Insurance Company              
</TABLE> 



<TABLE> 
<CAPTION> 
OFFICERS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
<S>                                                           <C> 
GEORGE G. BAUERNFEIND                                         DOUGLAS R. CARLISLE                            
Vice President - Tax                                          Vice President                                 
                                                                                                            
JAMES W. DOUCETTE                                             ROBERT A. HORRAR                               
Vice President and Treasurer                                  Vice President-Human Resources                 
                                                                                                            
JOAN O. KROGER                                                THOMAS J. LISTON                               
Secretary                                                     Vice President-Finance                         
                                                                                                            
HEIDI S. MARGULIS                                             SHERI E. MITCHELL                              
Vice President-Government Affairs                             Vice President - Quality and Service Excellence
                                                                                                            
WALTER E. NEELY                                               R. EUGENE SHIELDS                              
Vice President and Associate General Counsel                  Military Health Services Division-President    

DAVID W. WILLE
Vice President
</TABLE> 

                                       25
<PAGE>
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


TRANSFER AGENT
Bank of Louisville
Security Transfer Department
Post Office Box 1497
Louisville, Kentucky  40201
800-925-0810



FORM 10-K
Copies of the Company's Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission may be obtained, without charge, by writing:

  Investor Relations
  Humana Inc.
  Post Office Box 1438
  Louisville, Kentucky  40201-1438

Copies of the Company's Form 10-K and other Company information can also be
obtained through the Internet at the following address:

  http://www.Humana.com

STOCK LISTING

The Company's common stock trades on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol HUM.  The following table shows the range of high and low closing sales
prices as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape.
<TABLE>
<CAPTION>
1996                  HIGH          LOW
- -------------------------------------------
<S>                   <C>           <C>
First Quarter         28-3/4        24
Second Quarter        26-1/2        17-5/8
Third Quarter         21-1/4        15-5/8
Fourth Quarter        21-1/4        17-3/4
                             
<CAPTION> 
1995                  HIGH          LOW
- -------------------------------------------
<S>                   <C>           <C>
First Quarter         26-1/2        21-7/8
Second Quarter        27-1/8        17-3/8
Third Quarter         20-3/8        17-1/2
Fourth Quarter        28            18-5/8
</TABLE>



CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS
Humana Inc.
The Humana Building
500 West Main Street
Louisville, Kentucky  40202
(502) 580-1000
(800) 486-2620


ANNUAL MEETING
The Company's Annual Meeting of Stockholders will be held on Thursday, May 8,
1997, at 10:00 a.m. in the Auditorium on the 25th floor of the Humana Building.

                                       26
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-21
<SEQUENCE>5
<DESCRIPTION>HUMANA INC. SUBSIDIARY LIST
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                  HUMANA INC.                         EXHIBIT 21
                                SUBSIDIARY LIST
                                        
ALABAMA
- -------

1.   Humana Health Plan of Alabama, Inc.

CALIFORNIA
- ----------

1.   Centerstone Insurance and Financial Services
2.   HMO California

DELAWARE
- --------

1.   EMPHESYS Financial Group, Inc.
2.   Health Value Management, Inc.
3.   HUMNOV, Inc.
4.   Humana Compensation Management Source, Inc.
5.   Humana HealthChicago, Inc.  - Doing Business As:
     a.  HC Services
     b.  Goldcare 65
6.   Humana Inc.  - Doing Business As:
     a.  H.A.C. Inc.
7.   Humana Military Healthcare Services, Inc.  - Doing Business As:
     a.  Humana Military Health Services, Inc.
8.   Humrealty, Inc.

FLORIDA
- -------

1.   Delray Beach Health Management Associates, Inc.
2.   Health Inclusive Plan of Florida, Inc.
3.   Humana Health Care Plans - Davie, Inc.
4.   Humana Health Care Plans - Palm Springs, Inc.
5.   Humana Health Care Plans - Rolling Hills, Inc.
6.   Humana Health Care Plans - South Pembroke Pines, Inc.
7.   Humana Health Care Plans - West Palm Beach, Inc.
8.   Humana Internal Medicine Associates, Inc. -  Doing Business As:
     a.  Humana Health Care Plans-Hialeah
     b.  Humana Health Care Plans-South Miami
     c.  Humana Health Care Plans-Miami
     d.  Humana Health Care Plans-Miami Beach
     e.  Humana Health Care Plans-Royal Oaks
     f.  Humana Health Care Plans-Miami Springs
     g.  Humana Health Care Plans-Midway
9.   Humana Internal Medicine Associates of the Palm Beaches, Inc. - Doing
     Business As:
     a.  Humana Health Care Plans-Lake Worth
     b.  Humana Health Care Plans-Flagler
     c.  Humana Health Care Plans-Riverbridge
     d.  Humana Health Care Plans-Palm Beach

(FL - Cont. Next Page)
<PAGE>
 
FLORIDA Cont.
- -------------

10.  Humana Health Insurance Company of Florida, Inc.
11.  Humana Medical Plan, Inc. - Doing Business As:
     a.  Advanced Orthopaedics
     b.  Apopka Health Care
     c.  Atlantic Family Practice
     d.  Casselberry Health Care
     e.  Coastal Pediatrics
     f.  Community Medical Associates
     g.  Daytona Gastroenterology
     h.  Deland Family Health Care
     i.  Edgewood Health Care
     j.  Flagler Family Practice
     k.  Internal Medicine of Daytona Beach
     l.  Ormond Primary Care
     m.  Palm Coast Family Health Care
     n.  Personal Care Physicians of Apopka
     o.  Personal Care Physicians of Casselberry
     p.  Personal Care Physicians of Orlando
     q.  Personal Care Physicians of St. Mary
     r.  Professional Dermatology
     s.  Rosemont Health Care
     t.  Sugar Mill Medical Associates
     u.  Suncoast Medical Associates
     v.  Urological Associates-Ormond Beach
12.  Lakeside Medical Center Management, Inc. - Doing Business As:
     a.  University Medical Center

GEORGIA
- -------

1.   Humana Employers Health Plan of Georgia, Inc.
2.   Humana Health Plan of Georgia, Inc.

ILLINOIS
- --------

1.   Health Direct, Inc. - Doing Business As:
     a.  Behavioral Health Direct
2.   Health Direct Insurance, Inc.
3.   Humana HealthChicago Insurance Company
4.   The Dental Concern, Ltd. - Doing Business As:
     a.  TDC
 
KENTUCKY
- --------

1.   HMPK, INC.
2.   HPLAN, INC.
3.   Humana Broadway Corp.
4.   Humana Health Plan, Inc. - Doing Business As:
     a.  Bluegrass Family Practice
     b.  Central Kentucky Family Practice
     c.  Franklin Medical Center
     d.  Humana MedFirst
     e.  Humana Health Care Plans of Indiana
     f.  Madison Family and Industrial Medicine

(KY - Cont. Next Page)
<PAGE>
 
KENTUCKY Cont.
- --------------

5.   Humco, Inc. - Doing Business As:
     a.  Eagle Creek Medical Plaza
     b.  Humana Hospital - Lexington
6.   The Dental Concern, Inc.
7.   The Dental Concern Insurance Company

LOUISIANA
- ---------

1.   Humana Health Plan of Louisiana, Inc.

MISSOURI
- --------

1.   Humana Kansas City, Inc.  - Doing Business As:
     a. Humana Prime Health Plan
2.   Humana Insurance Company  - Doing Business As:
     a.  Dental Care Affiliates
     b.  Managed Prescription Services
     c.  Managed Prescription Services
     d.  Managed Prescription Services, Inc.
3.   Humana/Med-Pay, Inc.
 
NEVADA
- ------

1.   Humana Health Insurance of Nevada, Inc.

OHIO
- ----

1.   Humana Health Plan of Ohio, Inc.

TEXAS
- -----

1.   Humana HMO Texas, Inc.
2.   Humana Health Plan of Texas, Inc. - Doing Business As:
     a.  Humana Health Plan of Corpus Christi
     b.  Humana Health Plan of Dallas
     c.  Humana Health Plan of Houston
     d.  Humana Health Plan of San Antonio
     e.  Humana Regional Service Center
     f.  Leon Valley Health Center
     g.  MedCentre Plaza Health Center
     h.  Nacogdoches Family Medical Center
     i.  Perrin Oaks Health Center
     j.  Val Verde Health Center
     k.  West Lakes Health Center
     l.  Wurzbach Family Medical Center

UTAH
- ----

1.   Humana Health Plan of Utah, Inc.

VERMONT
- -------

1.   Managed Care Indemnity, Inc.  - Doing Business As:
     a.  Witherspoon Parking Garage
<PAGE>
 
VIRGINIA
- --------

1.   Humana Group Health Plan, Inc.

WASHINGTON
- ----------

1.   Humana Health Plan of Washington, Inc.

WISCONSIN
- ---------

1.   CareNetwork, Inc. - Doing Business As:
     a.  CARENETWORK
2.   EMPHESYS Wisconsin Insurance Company
3.   Employers Health Insurance Company
4.   Humana Wisconsin Health Organization Insurance Corporation - Doing Business
     As:
     a.  WHOIC
     b.  WHO
5.   Independent Care, Inc.
6.   Network EPO, Inc.
7.   The Barrington Group, LTD
8.   Wisconsin Employers Group, Inc.
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-23
<SEQUENCE>6
<DESCRIPTION>CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
<TEXT>

<PAGE>
 
                                                                      Exhibit 23



                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS



We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements of
Humana Inc. on Form S-8 (Registration No. 2-39061, No. 2-79239, No. 2-96154, No.
33-33072, No. 33-49305, No. 33-52593 and No. 33-54455), of our report dated
February 11, 1997, on our audits of the consolidated financial statements of
Humana Inc. as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1996, which report is included in this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.



COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
Louisville, Kentucky
February 11, 1997
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-27
<SEQUENCE>7
<DESCRIPTION>FINANCIAL DATA SCHEDULE
<TEXT>

<TABLE> <S> <C>

<PAGE>

<ARTICLE> 5
<LEGEND> This schedule contains summary financial information extracted from 
Humana Inc.'s Form 10-K for the twelve months ended December 31, 1996, and is 
qualified in its entirety by reference to such financial statement.
<MULTIPLIER> 1,000,000
       
<S>                             <C>
<PERIOD-TYPE>                   12-MOS
<FISCAL-YEAR-END>                         DEC-31-1996
<PERIOD-START>                            JAN-01-1996
<PERIOD-END>                              DEC-31-1996
<CASH>                                            322
<SECURITIES>                                    1,262 
<RECEIVABLES>                                     249 
<ALLOWANCES>                                       38 
<INVENTORY>                                         7 
<CURRENT-ASSETS>                                2,002       
<PP&E>                                            681      
<DEPRECIATION>                                    310    
<TOTAL-ASSETS>                                  3,153      
<CURRENT-LIABILITIES>                           1,500    
<BONDS>                                           225  
<COMMON>                                           27 
<PREFERRED-MANDATORY>                               0 
<PREFERRED>                                         0 
<OTHER-SE>                                      1,265       
<TOTAL-LIABILITY-AND-EQUITY>                    3,153         
<SALES>                                         6,677          
<TOTAL-REVENUES>                                6,788          
<CGS>                                           5,625          
<TOTAL-COSTS>                                   6,759          
<OTHER-EXPENSES>                                    0       
<LOSS-PROVISION>                                    0      
<INTEREST-EXPENSE>                                 11       
<INCOME-PRETAX>                                    18       
<INCOME-TAX>                                        6      
<INCOME-CONTINUING>                                12      
<DISCONTINUED>                                      0  
<EXTRAORDINARY>                                     0      
<CHANGES>                                           0  
<NET-INCOME>                                       12 
<EPS-PRIMARY>                                     .07 
<EPS-DILUTED>                                     .07 
        
                                  

</TABLE>
</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
</SEC-DOCUMENT>
-----END PRIVACY-ENHANCED MESSAGE-----
