<DOCUMENT>
<TYPE>EX-99
<SEQUENCE>2
<FILENAME>blmopr.txt
<DESCRIPTION>PRESS RELEASE ANNOUNCING MOYA AND BLOEM
<TEXT>

                                              Humana Inc.
                                              500 West Main Street
                                              P.O. Box 1438
                                              Louisville, KY 40201-1438

n e w s  r e l e a s e


FOR MORE INFORMATION, CONTACT:

Regina Nethery
Investor Relations
Phone: (502) 580-3644
E-MAIL: rnethery@humana.com

Dick Brown
Corporate Communications
Phone: (502) 580-3683
E-MAIL: dbrown4@humana.com



          Humana names CFO and Chief Marketing Officer

Strategic appointments will help company become consumer-centric innovator



LOUISVILLE, KY - January 5, 2001 - Humana Inc. (NYSE: HUM) today
announced two strategic leadership appointments designed to help
the company become a consumer-centric innovator of health benefit
plans and to continue the success of Humana's ongoing financial
turnaround.

     The appointments of James H. Bloem as senior vice president
and chief financial officer and Steven O. Moya as senior vice
president and chief marketing officer "complete the senior
leadership team that we've been assembling over the past year,"
said Michael B. McCallister, Humana's president and chief
executive officer.

     Moya, a founder and principal of Los Angeles-based Growth
Strategies Consulting and Latin Works Marketing, joined Humana
January 3. Bloem, most recently an independent financial and
business consultant serving national and international clients
from Grand Rapids, Mich., will assume his new role Feb. 5. Both
will report to McCallister.

     "These talented executives bring to Humana the experience
and proven effectiveness necessary to help us continue to
transform Humana into a growth-oriented, consumer-centric
company," McCallister said.

     Before becoming a consultant in 1999, Bloem was president of
the Personal Care Division of Perrigo Company, the nation's
largest manufacturer of over-the-counter pharmaceuticals,
personal care and nutritional products. He also has served as
chief financial officer of Herman Miller, Inc., an international
manufacturer of office furniture and furniture systems.

     Bloem holds a law degree from Vanderbilt University School
of Law and a Masters of Business Administration degree from
Harvard Business School. He also is a certified public
accountant.

     "Jim is a seasoned financial executive with solid experience
implementing innovative financial strategies and working closely
with Wall Street," McCallister said. "He will play an integral
role in continuing our financial turnaround and in positioning
the company for long-term growth."

     Under Moya's leadership, Growth Strategies Consulting and
LatinWorks marketing developed a reputation for effectively
building its clients' business strategy by applying trend
analysis information. He also served as senior vice president of
Manning, Selvage and Lee, one of the world's largest full-service
public-relations firms, and as vice president of Fleishman-
Hillard, a global communications agency. He has consulted for
major consumer-products clients including Ralston-Purina,
Anheuser-Busch and Southwestern Bell.

     "Steve is uniquely qualified for his challenging new role by
virtue of his distinguished 25-year career in strategic
marketing," McCallister said. "His critical analysis expertise,
along with his consumer-products experience, will help enhance
Humana as a consumer-centric company focused on digital health
technologies and services that empower people to better manage
their own health care."

     Humana Inc., headquartered in Louisville, Kentucky, is one
of the nation's largest publicly traded health services
companies, with approximately 5.4 million medical members located
primarily in 15 states and Puerto Rico. Humana offers coordinated
health insurance coverage through a variety of plans - health
maintenance organizations, preferred provider organizations,
point-of-service-plans and administrative service products - to
employer groups, government-sponsored plans and individuals.

     More information regarding Humana is available via the
Internet at www.humana.com, including:

    Copies of annual report to shareholders, Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs,
    and proxy statement;

    Copy of most recent investor presentation;

    Copies of quarterly earnings news releases;

    Audio archive of the most recent earnings release conference
    call;

    Calendar of events (includes upcoming earnings release date,
    related conference call access number, and planned participation
    in investor conferences).



</TEXT>
</DOCUMENT>
