AUTHENTICATED , 
US. GOVERNMENT 
INFORMATION ^ 


OVERSIGHT HEARINGS ON ROYALTY-IN-KIND FOR 
FEDERAL OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION 


OVERSIGHT HEARINGS 

BEFORE THE 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON ENERGY 
AND MINERAL RESOURCES 

OF THE 

COMMITTEE ON RESOURCES 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATHTS 

ONE HUNDRED EIETH CONGRESS 

FIRST SESSION 

JULY 31 AND SEPTEMBER 18, 1997, WASHINGTON, DC 


Serial No. 105-41 


Printed for the use of the Committee on Resources 



U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 


45-026 CC 


WASHINGTON : 1997 


COMMITTEE ON RESOURCES 


DON YOUNG, 

W.J. (BILLY) TAUZIN, Louisiana 

JAMES V. HANSEN, Utah 

JIM SAXTON, New Jersey 

ELTON GALLEGLY, California 

JOHN J. DUNCAN, jR., Tennessee 

JOEL HEFLEY, Colorado 

JOHN T. DOOLITTLE, California 

WAYNE T. GILCHREST, Maryland 

KEN CALVERT, California 

RICHARD W. POMBO, California 

BARBARA CUBIN, Wyoming 

HELEN CHENOWETH, Idaho 

LINDA SMITH, Washington 

GEORGE P. RADANOVICH, California 

WALTER B. JONES, jR., North Carolina 

WILLIAM M. (MAC) THORNBERRY, Texas 

JOHN SHADEGG, Arizona 

JOHN E. ENSIGN, Nevada 

ROBERT F. SMITH, Oregon 

CHRIS CANNON, Utah 

KEVIN BRADY, Texas 

JOHN PETERSON, Pennsylvania 

RICK HILL, Montana 

BOB SCHAFFER, Colorado 

JIM GIBBONS, Nevada 

MICHAEL D. CRAPO, Idaho 


Alaska, Chairman 

GEORGE MILLER, California 
EDWARD J. MARKEY, Massachusetts 
NICK J. RAHALL II, West Virginia 
BRUCE F. VENTO, Minnesota 
DALE E. KILDEE, Michigan 
PETER A. DeFAZIO, Oregon 
ENI F.H. FALEOMAVAEGA, American 
Samoa 

NEIL ABERCROMBIE, Hawaii 
SOLOMON P. ORTIZ, Texas 
OWEN B. PICKETT, Virginia 
FRANK PALLONE, jR., New Jersey 
CALVIN M. DOOLEY, California 
CARLOS A. ROMERO-BARCELO, Puerto 
Rico 

MAURICE D. HINCHEY, New York 

ROBERT A. UNDERWOOD, Guam 

SAM FARR, California 

PATRICK J. KENNEDY, Rhode Island 

ADAM SMITH, Washington 

WILLIAM D. DELAHUNT, Massachusetts 

CHRIS JOHN, Louisiana 

DONNA CHRISTIAN-GREEN, Virgin Islands 

RON KIND, Wisconsin 

LLOYD DOGGETT, Texas 


Lloyd A. Jones, Chief of Staff 
Elizabeth Megginson, Chief Counsel 
Christine Kennedy, Chief Clerk ! Administrator 
John Lawrence, Democratic Staff Director 


Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 
BARBARA CUBIN, Wyoming, Chairman 

W.J. (BILLY) TAUZIN, Louisiana CARLOS ROMERO-BARCELO, Puerto Rica 

JOHN L. DUNCAN, jR., Tennessee NICK J. RAHALL II, West Virginia 

KEN CALVERT, California SOLOMON P. ORTIZ, Texas 

WILLIAM M. (MAC) THORNBERRY, Texas CALVIN M. DOOLEY, California 

CHRIS CANNON, Utah CHRIS JOHN, Louisiana 

KEVIN BRADY, Texas DONNA CHRISTIAN-GREEN, Virgin Islands 

JIM GIBBONS, Nevada 

Bill Condit, Professional Staff 
Sharla Bickley, Professional Staff 
Deborah Lanzone, Legislative Staff 


(II) 



CONTENTS 


Page 

Hearings: 

July 31, 1997 1 

September 18, 1997 55 

Statements of Members: 

Cubin, Hon. Barbara, a Representative in Congress from the State of 

Wyoming 1 

Prepared statement of, September 18, 1997 55 

Maloney, Hon. Carolyn, a Representative in Congress from the State 

of New York 5 

Prepared statement of 8 

Romero-Barcelo, Hon. Carlos, a Delegate in Congress from the Territory 

of Puerto Rico, 3 

Prepared statement of, July 31, 1997 4 

Romero-Barcelo, Hon. Carlos A., a Delegate in Congress from the Terri- 
tory of Puerto Rico, July 31, 1997 57 

Prepared statement of, September 18, 1997 59 

Thornberry, Hon. William M. “Mac,” a Representative in Congress from 

the State of Texas, July 31, 1997 55 

Statements of witnesses: 

Brian, Danielle, Executive Director, Project on Government Oversight 62 

Prepared statement of 201 

Brown, Robert E., Associate Director, Minerals Management Service, U.S. 

Department of the Interior 86 

Prepared statement of 264 

Cohelan, Timothy, Esquire, Cohelan & Koury 69 

Prepared statement of 249 

Darouse, David, Mineral Revenue Regional Auditor Supervisor, Depart- 
ment of Natural Resources, Baton Rouge, Louisiana 23 

Prepared statement of 119 

Hagemeyer, Fred, Coordinating Manager, Royalty Affairs, Marathon Oil 

Company 33 

Prepared statement of 141 

Hamm, Sue Ann, Vice President, Oil Marketing/Sales, Continental Re- 
sources, Incorporated 35 

Prepared statement of 154 

Henderson, William, Market Development Representative, Gulf Canada 

Resources 60 

Prepared statement of 191 

Magagna, Jim, Director, Office of State Lands and Investments, Office 

of Federal Land Policy, State of Wyoming 25 

Prepared statement of 121 

Neufeld, Bob, Vice President, Environment & Government Relations, Wy- 
oming Refining Company 71 

Prepared statement of 257 

Nichols, Larry, President, Devon Energy 31 

Prepared statement of 130 

Quarterman, Cynthia, Director, Minerals Management Service 45 

Prepared statement of 181 

Reid, Spencer, Deputy Land Commissioner, Texas General Land Office .... 19 

Prepared statement of 21 

Rorschach, Richard, National Chairman, National Association of Royalty 

Owners 63 

Prepared statement of 208 

Rothschild, Edwin S., Public Affairs Director, Citizen Action 65 


(III) 



IV 


Page 


Statements of witnesses — Continued 

Rothschild, Edwin S., Public Affairs Director, Citizen Action — Continued 

Prepared statement of 213 

Segner, Edmund, III, Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff, Enron 

Corporation 37 

Prepared statement of 172 

Smith, Linden, Managing Director, Barents Group 67 

Prepared statement of 224 

Additional material supplied: 

Briefing paper 96 

Congressional Research Service, Library of Congress, Memorandum from 

Marc Humphries and Lawrence Kumins 270 

Crude Oil Royalty Payment Analysis, Report to the State Land Offices 

of Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas 138 

DiBona, Charles, American Petroleum Institute 94 

Petroleum Marketing Act 162 

Questions from Mrs. Cubin and Mr. Romero-Barcelo and answers from 

witnesses 291 

State of Louisiana, prepared statement of, submitted by David Darouse ... 119 



OVERSIGHT HEARING ON ROYALTY-IN-KIND 
FOR FEDERAL OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION 


THURSDAY, JULY 31, 1997 

House of Representatives, Subcommittee on Energy 
AND Mineral Resources, Committee on Resources, 
Washington, DC. 

The Subcommittee met, pursuant to call, at 2:05 p.m., in room 
1334, Longworth House Office Building, Hon. Barbara Cubin 
[chairman of the Subcommittee] presiding. 

STATEMENT OF HON. BARBARA CUBIN, A REPRESENTATIVE 
IN CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF WYOMING 

Mrs. Cubin. The Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Re- 
sources will come to order. The Subcommittee is meeting today to 
hear testimony on royalty-in-kind for Federal oil and gas produc- 
tion. Under Rule 4[g] of the Committee Rules, any oral opening 
statements at hearings are limited to the Chairman and the Rank- 
ing Minority Member. 

This will allow us to hear from our witnesses sooner and help 
members keep to their busy schedules. Therefore, if other members 
have statements, they can be included in the hearing record under 
unanimous consent. 

The Subcommittee meets today to review issues concerning the 
collection of production royalties due to the United States from 
Federal oil and gas leases on shore and on the outer continental 
shelf. During the last Congress, Chairman Calvert held a hearing 
to review the initial evaluation by the Minerals Management Serv- 
ice of the pilot program the agency had conducted in the Gulf of 
Mexico for natural gas royalty-in-kind. 

That effort led to inclusion of language in the Appropriations 
Committee report for the 1997 Interior Department’s spending bill 
urging consideration of further royalty-in-kind initiatives by MMS. 

Many of us in Congress view the idea of a broad based royalty- 
in-kind program as a way to greatly diminish the enormous costs 
associated with audit and enforcement functions of collecting roy- 
alty-in-value. 

For fiscal year 1998, the House has funded the valuation and 
compliance subactivities within the MMS budget at $68.3 million, 
but the true costs are still much higher because the Federal Gov- 
ernment must expend substantial legal and administrative re- 
sources to answer protests, appeals, and litigation which ensue 
from differing interpretation of the value of oil and gas for royalty 
purposes. 


( 1 ) 



2 


Lest anyone forget, let me remind you that I represent the State 
of Wyoming in this body. And my state bears by far the largest por- 
tion of any state’s cost burden under the so-called net receipts 
sharing formula which was codified as permanent law in the Omni- 
bus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993. 

And by my quick arithmetic, the State of Wyoming has had over 
$50 million taken from its half of the Federal mineral lease re- 
ceipts since the inception of the net receipts sharing methodology 
in fiscal year 1991. 

The cumulative burden upon the states with onshore Federal 
leases for fiscal year 1997 alone is $22.1 million representing one- 
fourth of the cost of administering onshore mineral leases by the 
BLM, the U.S. Forest Service, and the MMS. 

Without question, savings in these administrative costs, which 
may be realized through efficiency gains such as collecting oil and 
gas royalties-in-kind rather than in-dispute value, will reduce the 
burden upon the states paying the Federal Government’s freight, 
as well as enrich the U.S. Treasury to the benefit of taxpayers 
throughout the nation. 

To my way of thinking, there simply must be a better way to 
more efficiently collect what is owed to the United States in return 
for the right to explore, develop, and produce oil and gas from Fed- 
eral lands; more efficient for the Feds and, therefore, by way of the 
net value sharing formula, less burdensome on the states and, yes, 
more efficient for industry which must put their money and capital 
at risk in the first place so there would no income to the Federal 
Government or the states. 

Now, I realize that royalty-in-kind theoretically looks good, but 
putting it into practice is not necessarily cut and dry. But should 
we shy away from pursuing the idea because a particular segment 
of the industry or perhaps a particular state or two has certain 
problems with this method, I say absolutely not, nor should we in 
Congress simply take at face value allegation by folks with a vested 
interest in the status quo that R-I-K is a money loser. 

But we must keep in mind the end goal. Increased efficiency 
means greater net revenues to all parties involved. I take seriously 
my job as Chairman of this Subcommittee, and I intend to see that 
that remains our focus. My purpose then in calling today’s hearing 
is to attempt to set in motion a consensus-seeking effort not unlike 
that of two years ago, which ultimately resulted in the passage of 
a bill which President Clinton was eager to sign, the Royalty Fair- 
ness Act. 

I understand that there are naysayers within Congress, some of 
whom may believe I have tried to stack the deck in this oversight 
hearing. I disagree strongly with that assertion, but this will not 
be the final hearing on royalty-in-kind. And we will hear from 
other witnesses in September who may perhaps have fundamental 
differences over whether or not R-I-K is an idea worthy of pursuit. 

Furthermore, I have agreed to our Minority’s request to have 
Representative Carolyn Maloney of New York as our first witness 
today, given the fact that she seems to have an abiding interest in 
royalty collection. And certainly I share that with you. I welcome 
you here today, Mrs. Maloney, and now I recognize the Ranking 
Member, Mr. Carlos Romero-Barcelo for his opening statement. 



3 


[Briefing paper may be found at end of hearing.] 

STATEMENT OF HON. CARLOS ROMERO-BARCELO, A DELE- 
GATE IN CONGRESS FROM THE TERRITORY OF PUERTO 

RICO 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo Thank you very much, Madam Chair, and 
we appreciate the opportunity to review the possibilities for a roy- 
alty-in-kind program in the Federal oil and gas leasing program. 

And it is particularly agreeable to have our colleague, Carolyn 
Maloney, Representative of New York, join us here today. Rep- 
resentative Maloney has indeed shown a great interest in the Fed- 
eral royalty program for several years now. And her insight and 
her comments will be very welcome on this Subcommittee. 

The question of whether the Federal Government should take its 
oil and gas royalties “in kind” presents a lot of interesting possibili- 
ties. Of course, we are interested in any option that purports to im- 
prove services at a reduced cost. 

We share the Chair’s interest in developing more simple, certain, 
and efficient methods of collecting oil and gas royalties. We are 
pleased to learn that a group of the independent oil and gas pro- 
ducers, through their trade associations, is working together to de- 
velop a royalty-in-kind proposal; just as we are pleased that the 
Minerals Management Service, under the able leadership of Ms. 
Cynthia Quarterman, is aggressively examining the question. The 
oil-producing states too have a valuable role to play in this discus- 
sion. 

However, it is a bit unsettling to hear — after aggressive lobbying 
by the states and oil and gas industry officials, and over the initial 
objections of the Minerals Management Service — that the Royalty 
Fairness and Simplification Act of 1996 that was signed by Presi- 
dent Clinton just one year ago should be cast aside along with the 
improvements made to the royalty management program and re- 
placed with an in-kind marketing program. This is almost a 180 
degree turn from what the oil industry and states were clamoring 
for during the last Congress. 

To a certain degree, I am being facetious. However, our experi- 
ence with the Royalty Fairness Act illustrates an important factor 
to bear in mind. We must all be very cautious and extremely delib- 
erative in our consideration of the radical idea of replacing the tra- 
ditional in value royalty payment with a royalty-in-kind program. 

The Federal Government is the largest single owner of oil and 
gas resources in the United States. What would be the con- 
sequences of changing the Federal role from royalty collector to oil 
and gas marketer? What safeguards would be necessary to assure 
that the taxpayers will receive their fair share from the develop- 
ment of our nation’s oil and gas resources? 

Have we adequately considered the consequences of enabling the 
Federal Government to dictate market price by virtue of its market 
power? How would the various segments of the oil and gas industry 
respond to having the Federal Government in the oil business? 

We must know the answers to these and other critical questions 
before we set about writing and considering legislation. Particu- 
larly one of the great concerns is we are going away from govern- 
ment being involved in many activities, and we are now asking the 



4 


government to get involved being an oil marketer. That is a very, 
very step going away from where we are trying to go in many other 
areas. 

I think our experience in Puerto Rico has been that the govern- 
ment’s participation in businesses that are most appropriately pri- 
vate enterprise is a bad, bad experience. I think probably the worst 
marketer in the world would be the government. Because, clearly, 
if it is not handled correctly, a U.S. royalty-in-kind program could 
seriously disrupt the domestic petroleum markets. So we must 
move slowly and carefully to fully examine this idea. 

We have a great deal of research and analysis to do before we 
can say with any degree of certainty that royalty-in-kind is better 
than in-value royalty. And there are others beyond these distin- 
guished witnesses here today from whom we should hear, as our 
Chair has already indicated. 

For instance, none of the major oil and gas corporations are on 
the witness list here today. I hope we will gain the benefit of their 
views at the next hearing in September when we will also hear 
from witnesses invited at the minority’s request. 

Royalty-in-kind does offer interesting possibilities, but it is no 
panacea to problems encountered with the current in-value royalty 
program. Suggesting any specific, mandatory change to the Federal 
royalty management program at this point in time is premature. 

Only after additional study and experience, which MMS can gain 
through its ongoing efforts and we in Congress can gain through 
additional oversight hearings, can the subcommittee begin to con- 
sider what, if any, changes are necessary to the authorizing stat- 
utes. With that message of caution, I join the Chair in welcoming 
our witnesses today. 

[Prepared statement of Mr. Romero-Barcelo follows:] 

Statement of Hon. Carlos Romero-Barcelo, a Delegate in Congress from 
THE Territory of Puerto Rico 

Madame Chair, we appreciate the opportunity to review the possibilities for a roy- 
alty-in-kind program in the Federal oil and gas leasing program. 

It is particularly agreeable to have our colleague, Representative Carolyn Maloney 
of New York, join us here today. Representative Maloney has shown an interest in 
the Federal royalty program for several years now. Her insights and comments will 
undoubtedly be of great value to the Subcommittee. 

The question of whether the Federal Government should take its oil and gas roy- 
alties “in kind” presents many interesting possibilities. Of course, we are interested 
in any option that purports to improve services at reduced cost. 

We share the Chair’s interest in developing more simple, certain and efficient 
methods of collecting oil and gas royalties. We are pleased to learn that a group of 
the independent oil and gas producers, through their trade associations, is working 
together to develop a royalty-in-kind proposal. Just as we are pleased that the Min- 
erals Management Service, under the able leadership of Ms. Cynthia Quarterman, 
is aggressively examining the question. The oil-producing States, too, have a valu- 
able role to play in this discussion. 

However, it is a bit unsettling to hear — after aggressive lobbying by the States 
and oil and gas industry officials — and over the initial objections of the Minerals 
Management Service — that the Royalty Fairness and Simplification Act of 1996 that 
was signed by President Clinton just 1 year ago — should be cast aside along with 
the improvements made to the royalty management program and replaced with an 
“in-kind” marketing program. This is almost a one-hundred and eighty degree turn 
from what the oil industry and states were clamoring for during the last Congress. 

To a certain degree, I am being facetious. However, our experience with the “Roy- 
alty Fairness” Act illustrates an important factor to bear in mind. 



5 


We must all be very cautious and extremely deliberative in our consideration of 
the radical idea of replacing the traditional “in value” royalty payment with a “roy- 
alty-in-kind” program. 

The Federal Government is the largest single owner of oil and gas resources in 
the U.S. What would be the consequence of changing the Federal role from royalty 
collector to oil and marketer? 

What safeguards would be necessary to assure that the taxpayers would receive 
their “fair share” from the development of our Nation’s oil and gas resources? 

Have we adequately considered the consequences of enabling the Federal Govern- 
ment to dictate market price by virtue of its market power? 

How would the various segments of the oil and gas industry respond to having 
the Federal Government in the oil business? 

We must know the answers to these and other critical questions before we set 
about writing and considering legislation. 

Because, clearly, if not handled correctly, a U.S. royalty-in-kind program could se- 
riously disrupt the domestic petroleum market. So, we must move slowly and care- 
fully to fully examine this idea. 

We have a great deal of research and analysis to do before we can say with any 
degree of certainty that “royalty in kind” is better than “in value royalty.” And, 
there are others beyond those distinguished witnesses here today from whom we 
should hear. For instance, none of the major oil and gas corporations are on the wit- 
ness list today. I hope we will gain the benefit of their views at the next hearing 
in September when we will also hear from witnesses invited at the Minority’s re- 
quest. 

“Royalty in kind” does offer interesting possibilities, but, it is no panacea to prob- 
lems encountered with the current “in-value” royalty program. Suggesting any spe- 
cific, mandatory change to the Federal royalty management program is premature. 
Only after much additional study and experience — which MMS can gain through its 
ongoing efforts — and we in Congress can gain through additional oversight hear- 
ings — can the Subcommittee begin to consider what, if any, changes are necessary 
to the authorizing statutes. 

With that message of caution, I join the Chair in welcoming our witnesses today. 

Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you. And now for our first witness, Mrs. 
Maloney, the Representative from New York. Welcome. 

STATEMENT OF HON. CAROLYN MALONEY, A REPRESENTA- 
TIVE IN CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF NEW YORK 

Mrs. Maloney. Thank you very much. Madam Chairwoman, and 
other members of the Subcommittee. I appreciate very much the 
opportunity to testify today. I would like to request that my entire 
testimony be put in the record as whole, but I have a very, very 
brief synopsis of it. 

The American taxpayer has lost out on nearly $2 billion in un- 
paid oil royalties since 1980. I appreciate very much the efforts on 
the part of the Department of the Interior and the Department of 
Justice toward correcting this debt. However, I do not believe that 
collecting royalties -in-kind will serve taxpayers well or the Federal 
Government. 

Let me bring you up to date very, very briefly on the oil royalty 
situation. Last year, it came to the attention of the House Sub- 
committee on Government Management, Information, and Tech- 
nology, on which I serve, that several oil companies had signifi- 
cantly underpaid their Federal oil royalties. The information came 
through the Department of Interior’s Task Force on California 
Valuation. 

The task force revealed that the royalties paid were much, much 
lower than they should have been because they were based on the 
posted price of the oil rather than the real economic value of the 
oil. The states who lost out in the undervaluation are pursuing 
their losses. The State of California won a $345 million settlement 



6 


from major oil companies. Alaska, Texas, Alabama, New Mexico, 
and Louisiana have also won settlements. 

The Department of Interior and the Department of Justice are 
both investigating the undervaluation reports. The Department of 
Interior has issued bills for $440 million in unpaid royalties. And 
the Department of Interior has proposed regulations on Federal oil 
royalty valuation, which bases the price of oil royalties on the New 
York Mercantile Exchange market price and the Alaskan North 
Slope spot prices, which is a standard oil price that the oil compa- 
nies use. 

This came out in the task force report from the Department of 
Interior, and this is the basis of price for the oil companies. If it 
is the basis of price for the oil companies, it should be the basis 
of price for the Federal Government. Here is the key. Those pro- 
posed new regulations would bring in an additional $100 million 
annually. It is money that is owed to the American people and to 
the Federal Government. 

As you know, the industry is interested in a substitute system. 
They would prefer to pay the royalties-in-kind. Such a deal would 
force the Federal Government into the oil business, and it would 
cost the citizens, the taxpayers money. 

Here is what would happen under an in-kind system. Oil compa- 
nies hand over oil as payment. The Minerals Management Service 
then contracts out to marketers. The marketers then sell to refin- 
ers. The profits from the oil are partially eaten up in paying the 
marketing costs, and American citizens and the Federal Govern- 
ment get jipped. It simply costs the government too much to get rid 
of the oil. 

Let me give you one example of how this might work. I see that 
Devon Energy is here to testify today as an oil producer. But what 
you all might not know is that Devon Energy is also a marketing 
corporation. The royalty-in-kind proposal gives a company like 
Devon the option of paying the government its royalties in oil, then 
being paid by the government to market it. 

I don’t mean to single out Devon Energy, which is an out- 
standing company. These practices are quite common in the indus- 
try, but they seem downright unfair when oil companies are mak- 
ing money at the expense of hardworking taxpayers. 

You have heard and will hear today that the MMS, Minerals 
Management Service, has changed. You will hear that it is making 
sincere efforts to change its valuation rules to assure the collection 
of real value. You will hear that it is working to correct the flaws 
in its current royalty-in-kind program and to expand and improve 
that system. 

Despite the progress, I don’t believe the Federal Government has 
any business playing J. R. Ewing from the old Dallas television se- 
ries. The Interior Department does not have the culture, the incen- 
tives, or the equipment to become an effective competitor. There 
are $4 billion in revenues at risk. I encourage other reforms of the 
Royalty Management Program. 

Earlier this year, I introduced the Royalty Collection Reform Act, 
which would move the program from the Department of Interior to 
the Department of Treasury to better ensure the collection of 



7 


money. I believe this is a better solution than shortchanging tax- 
payers to the advantage of the oil industry. 

I would just like to add that last year an important bill was 
passed out of Congressman Horn’s Subcommittee on Government 
Management and Technology, and I worked very closely with him 
on this reform. And I just mention it because it is similar in a 
sense. We did a study that showed $55 billion was owed the Fed- 
eral Government in loans, fines, fees — this is how we started look- 
ing at the royalties — and royalties. 

And one of the things that we did to modernize collection is to 
move collections to a centralized collector whose purpose and focus 
is collecting money, the Department of the Treasury. For example, 
the Education Department had many loans that they weren’t col- 
lecting, but their prime focus and purpose is to educate, not to col- 
lect money. 

And so if you put it into a collector’s hands after a certain period 
of time where the central agency tries to collect, then they will 
focus on collecting it as their prime and main mission. So I just 
mention it. And according to the Department of Treasury, our bill 
has brought in roughly — they estimate will bring in $10 billion over 
the next five years. 

I would like to put three graphs into the record if I could that 
point out simply the proposals. This is the royalty-in-kind proposal 
and the new regulations that MMS has put into effect. The new 
regulations that they are calling for would have the government 
royalty based on the market price, which is the price that the oil 
companies pay. 

If it is good enough for private sector, why shouldn’t it be good 
enough for government. The royalty-in-kind proposal will have the 
government royalty — the market price could be diminished by the 
marketing expenses and other expenses that may be involved. 

This is a graph of how an oil company — many of our large oil 
companies are integrated and formed. They have a production affil- 
iate, a marketing affiliate, a transportation affiliate, and a refining 
affiliate. And so there could be built-in costs before we would get 
the real revenue. It is much simpler to just get the market price. 

And, again, I give the current system, which is very simple. You 
have the oil. You have the market price. You have MMS collecting 
the market price for the government’s oil. Under the royalty-in- 
kind, you would have MMS becoming hugely involved in marketing 
to various contractors, to various oil refineries, and there will be 
a lot of government cost and expense. 

And it seems to me as we are working, as we speak on the floor 
jointly in a bipartisan way to balance the budget and to invest in 
values and really run government more efficiently that the more ef- 
ficient way to collect oil royalties is with the market price, the mar- 
ket price that, in fact, serves the private sector. And I thank you, 
and I tried to be brief, and I 

Mrs. Gubin. And you did a good job. 

Mrs. Maloney, [continuing] would like to put this in the record. 

Mrs. Gubin. Without objection. 

Mrs. Maloney. And if there are any questions, I would love to 
answer them. In any event, I look forward to working with you. 

[Prepared statement of Mrs. Maloney follows:] 



8 


Statement of Hon. Carolyn B. Maloney, a Representative in Congress from 

THE State of New York 

Thank you Madam Chairman and Members of the Subcommittee. 

Background 

Last year, in a hearing of the House Subcommittee on Government Management, 
Information, and Technology, the Subcommittee discussed the findings of the De- 
partment of Interior’s Interagency Task Force on California oil valuation at great 
length. According to the report, major oil companies underpaid Federal royalties by 
posting the price of oil below the real economic value of the oil which the companies 
determined to be the Alaskan North Slope (ANS) spot price. 

On September 24, the Committee on Government Reform and Oversight released 
a report entitled, “Crude Oil Undervaluation: The Ineffective Response of the Min- 
erals Management Service.” This report contains three findings that pertain to this 
hearing: 1) the Federal Government has received oil royalties below market value, 
2) the oil undervaluation problem exists nationwide, and 3) the MMS royalty in kind 
program may have left Federal financial interests unprotected. 

Since the release of the Task Force and the Committee report, the Department 
of Interior (DOI) has proposed new regulations on Federal oil royalty valuation 
which bases the price of Federal oil royalties the New York Mercantile Exchange 
(NYMEX) market price and the Alaskan North Slope (ANS) spot price. 

Royalty In Kind 

As you know, MMS’ proposed regulations have produced voluminous comments, 
especially from industry. A surprising theme repeated throughout the industry com- 
ments on Interior’s proposal is that the Department should cease collecting royalties 
in value and take its production in kind, meaning the Federal Government should 
enter the oil business. 

Compare this to the arguments we heard last year in support of the sale of the 
Elk-Hills Naval Petroleum Reserve. In managing that Reserve, the Department of 
Energy sold Federal oil. But last year, many of these same industry advocates were 
arguing that the Department of Energy, as a government entity, simply had no 
place in the oil business. But today, they urge us to force the Department of the 
Interior to enter the market on a scale that would eclipse, by several fold, the DOE’s 
Elk Hills program. 

It was only last year that this Congress passed into law, the Federal Oil and Gas 
Royalty Simplification and Fairness Act. This legislation imposed new requirements 
on the Department of Interior to follow in the collection of royalties. As I understand 
it, the Minerals Management Service has yet to fully implement these requirements 
which has caused a flurry of rulemakings, task force groups and other re-direction 
of resources. Now industry is advocating even more drastic changes — changes, which 
if implemented in full would essentially scrap these recent reforms. 

I believe the real impetus behind industr^s royalty in kind push is to avoid pay- 
ing oil royalties based on market price as suggested in the new proposed oil valu- 
ation regulations. 

Forcing the government to take the royalty in kind will trap the government in 
the very posted price system that does not reflect value. Industry believes that bid- 
ding the production out at the lease will safeguard the public’s revenue interest 
against posted prices. However, if the real independent producers cannot obtain 
market value, how can the Federal Government? The fact is that those that could 
purchase at the lease — the major integrated companies — have an interest in getting 
access to cheap oil. And those others that more typically participate — brokers and 
marketers — would not survive if they could not profit from the difference between 
posted price and real value. 

Industry also suggests that MMS use marketing middlemen to sell the govern- 
ment’s in kind production. This Subcommittee is fortunate to have oil marketers be- 
fore it today, and I would urge you to question them closely about how use of mar- 
keting middlemen would protect the public’s revenue interest. 

For example, Devon Energy, which is here to testify in support of a government 
royalty in kind program, is not only a producer, but a marketer through its sub- 
sidiary, Devon Marketing Corporation. Devon’s SEC filings indicate that its mar- 
keting affiliate has purchased over 80 percent of its production from third parties 
over the last few years. Logically, it is thus a potential purchaser of the govern- 
ment’s royalty in kind production. Those same documents indicate that Devon Mar- 
keting purchases third party oil production at the field postings and resells it at a 
premium over posting. 

I do not mean to single out Devon Energy. As I understand it, the practices of 
its marketing affiliate are common. 



9 


But as potential purchasers of the government’s in kind production, I would urge 
the Subcommittee to ask these industry marketers the following questions. Would 
you follow your normal practice of purchasing product at the posted price for in kind 
production? And, if not, what percentage of the premium received by your marketing 
affiliate would you share with the Federal Government and what would you keep 
as a “marketing fee”? 

My concern is simple. In the past, MMS operated its royalty in kind program as 
a source of cheap oil for independent refiners. The current proposals suggest that 
the economic advantage of cheap government oil will simply be transferred from 
small refiners to marketers. Under either scenario, the public’s revenue interests 
are left out of the equation. 

I have also heard repeatedly from industry that MMS simply has no under- 
standing of the crude oil market. If it is true that MMS’ knowledge lags the market, 
how can we hope to assure that MMS will on a timely basis be able to evaluate 
the performance of its marketing agents? And, if it does take five, 10 years for MMS 
to catch up, as we have seen in the past, what protection will exist that the public 
will not be short-changed? 

In referring back to Interior’s task force report, our Committee found example 
after example of how oil companies were very successful in losing MMS auditors in 
a maze of oil transactions. Let me quote from the report: 

On Page 18, the report states, “Most oil from Federal oil and gas leases is pro- 
duced by integrated companies that transfer production from their production arm 
to a trading or refining arm. After this initial non-arm’s-length transfer, oil pro- 
duced from Federal leases loses its identity in companies’ accounting systems so 
that its price in subsequent transfers cannot usually be determined. 

And on Page 49-50, the report says, “After transferring Federal crude of a specific 
type to a company’s trading division, the distinction between Federal and non-Fed- 
eral crude oil was lost. Federal crude oil was not specifically invoiced in companies’ 
records after internal transfers, so it is unlikely that gross proceeds in excess of 
posted prices can be traced to the production of specific Federal leases.” 

As much as I admire the efforts of the Secretary to make improvements to Inte- 
rior’s Royalty Management Program, I believe the major oil companies have and can 
continue to bury the Royalty Management Program audit teams in a maze of com- 
pany trading transactions. Furthermore, the oil companies have made no secret of 
their desire to use legal roadblocks and endless appeals to prevent the release of 
their affiliate’s records. That’s why I believe that using spot prices like the ANS and 
NYMEX is by far the most efficient, accurate and least bureaucratic method to 
value royalty on. 

Conclusion 

You have heard and will hear today that MMS has changed. It is making efforts 
to change its valuation rules to assure the collection of real value, and I applaud 
those actions. 

But, despite this progress, I simply not believe that the Federal Government 
should enter the oil business. The Interior Department does not have the culture, 
the incentives, or the equipment to become an effective competitor. Congress should 
not risk $4 billion in revenues by forcing MMS to try and recreate itself into some- 
thing that in reality it cannot effectively become. 

Reform at MMS is possible. I too have called for further reforms of the Royalty 
Management Program. I have introduced the Royalty Collection Reform Act, which 
would move royalty collection to the Department of Treasury’s Financial Manage- 
ment Service (FMS) to better insure that funds owed the government are collected. 
FMS can collect Federal royalties accurately without the need for a full blown oil 
royalty in kind program. 

Thank you. 

[Graphs follow:] 





11 



12 







13 


Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you. I do have just a couple questions. First 
of all, I know that you know this, but just for the record, when Fed- 
eral minerals are produced in a state, then the state shares in the 
royalties at 50 percent. 

And so before I came up here today, I think want to say this be- 
cause I want you to understand — not just you but everyone to un- 
derstand — how not only do I think it is the right thing to do to col- 
lect the appropriate penny of the appropriate amount — every single 
penny that is owed to the government in royalties, but it is also 
for every constituent in my state. 

Because I went back and looked up the data published by MMS 
on all the royalties collected from Federal leases within each state 
since the advent of the Mineral Leasing Act, and it may surprise 
you to learn this that New York has had natural gas production 
from Federal mineral estate totaling $54,327 in royalties from 1920 
through 1995. 

Now, let us compare that with the total of royalties paid into the 
Treasury from the Federal leases in Wyoming over the same period 
of time. According to MMS, over $6,680,000 of royalties were paid 
from Wyoming, and so, obviously, our schools and our communities, 
our highways — it is very important to me that we get every single 
penny to which we are entitled. And we agree very strongly on 
that. 

There may be some disagreement. I think that is yet to be told. 
But I want to ask you this question. Did your graphs show the 
amount of money that the Federal Government spends on litiga- 
tion, on enforcement, and audits, and all of those kind of things — 
expenses that go into the current collection process? 

Mrs. Maloney. Well, we hope the regulations will fix some of 
that. My graphs had no numbers on them at all. And as you know, 
their new regulations greatly simplify their collections process, pro- 
jecting to collect on the Alaskan North Slope prices and the New 
York Mercantile Exchange, as opposed to the posted prices. 

I would think that moving to that system would cut out a lot of 
litigation just by common sense, that there is nothing to litigate. 
I mean, it is very clear. Here is the price that the private sector 
pays. Here is the price that the government pays. It is the same. 

Mrs. CUBIN. Well, unfortunately, it really isn’t that simple. I live 
right in the middle of an oil and gas field, and the problem that 
I see at this point in time with the proposed rule is that what this 
rule will do is move the point of valuation farther from the well- 
head or from the border of the lease. 

And so that the price then will include some beneficiation rather 
than the actual price at the wellhead, and that is where the tax 
ought to be assessed, in my opinion. You said that $51 billion or 
$55 billion is owed in uncollected royalties. Is that correct? 

Mrs. Maloney. That was to illustrate centralizing collections in 
the Treasury. This report that we did was one of 100 agencies 
where they reported back what was owed to them, and this was not 
just an oil report. This was all that was owed the Federal Govern- 
ment in uncollected 

Mrs. Gubin. In minerals? 

Mrs. Maloney. No, no, no, in everything. 

Mrs. Gubin. Oh, OK. 



14 


Mrs. Maloney. In everything — education, agricultural loans, 
small business loans, loans, fines, fees, royalties, and other areas. 
This was what was owed to the Federal Government that was not 
collected. And Congressman Horn and I put in a bill to improve col- 
lections, not just for royalties but across the government, that mod- 
ernized it, simplified it, and, very importantly, put collections in 
one office whose mission it was and focus was to bring revenue into 
the Federal Government. 

Mrs. Gubin. Thank you. 

Mrs. Maloney. And that has helped bring in — in fact, we are 
working on our second report, and I will be glad to share it with 
you with Mr. Horn of what has come in since our bill went into ef- 
fect. But the Treasury projects that having done what we did, cen- 
tralizing collections in Treasury, will improve collections across our 
government by they said $10 billion in 5 years. That is a lot of 
schoolteachers. That is a lot of police officers. That is a lot of in- 
vestment in the interior and other things in our parks that we 
need money for. 

I just mentioned that as a way of possibly improving collections 
instead of having the Department of Interior that has so many im- 
portant responsibilities to possibly let the Treasury Department, 
which is collecting now across government, likewise collect royal- 
ties. Maybe that is another issue maybe that is not just in-kind, 
but I just brought it up since it had been successful in bringing in 
revenue. And that is one of the focuses of the in-kind hearing that 
you are having now, to bring in the revenue. In any event, I appre- 
ciate your time and of all the members here. 

Mrs. Gubin. Thank you. Did you have any questions, Mr. 
Barcelo? 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs. 
Maloney for her testimony and for being here with us 

Mrs. Maloney. Thank you. Governor. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. [continuing] and helping us and edu- 
cating us. She knows more about this problem than I do. I am just 
beginning to learn about it. But, Madam Chair, I would like to sug- 
gest that we ask for the Administration to give us an estimate on 
the cost of litigation for the collection of the 

Mrs. Gubin. Certainly. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. OK. Thank you. Thank you. Madam 
Chair. And I just have a couple of questions for Mrs. Maloney. Do 
you know what has been the experience in those countries like 
Venezuela and Mexico where the government is involved in the 
business of marketing oil? 

Mrs. Maloney. I have not studied those countries. I could look 
at it and get back to you. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. Well, the experience is very, very, very 
bad for those countries. I mention that because everywhere that 
the government gets involved in something that is capitalistic as 
marketing, they are never successful. 

So if that is an option, this will be analyzed from all angles be- 
cause it is very — as I said, the experience that we have had also 
in Puerto Rico has been a very bad experience. What they had in 
England and other countries has also been very bad when the gov- 
ernment gets involved in selling goods or services. 



15 


The other thing I would like to ask you, Mrs. Maloney, is have 
you been in touch with the Secretary of the Treasury or with any- 
one in the Federal Management Service about how they would go 
about it and whether they would be interested in handling the 
services of collecting the royalties? 

Mrs. Maloney. Absolutely. I have talked several times with Cyn- 
thia Quarterman and also with Secretary Babbitt, and I applaud 
the Administration. They really appointed a task force that came 
forward with the first government report that showed the under- 
valuation and took steps to correct it. And I think that they have 
been innovative, and they have worked very hard on it, and that 
they have done something constructively to correct a problem. And 
I applaud them for their efforts. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. I am talking about the suggestion that 
you made that the collection of royalties be delegated to the De- 
partment of Treasury, not the Interior. 

Mrs. Maloney. I have talked to Treasury officials, but I have not 
met with the Secretary, and I will try to meet with the Secretary 
and discuss it with him and see what his viewpoints are on it. And 
I put forward the proposal only with the deepest respect of the De- 
partment of Interior and the fine job that they are doing but in 
probably helping with the management. 

What we are doing across government is each agency will have 
6 months to collect what is owed to them. Then it moves to the De- 
partment of Treasury where they then centralize it and try to bring 
it in through a centralized method, which has been working very 
well. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. I just asked that question because the 
idea to me seems very good because, obviously, the Treasury De- 
partment is much more trained to collect any kind of taxes or roy- 
alties than anybody else in the government. So 

Mrs. Maloney. I think that a lot of times in government we are 
very shortstaffed, and we don’t have enough time or energy or per- 
sonnel to do all the many things that we need to do. And a lot of 
times your main focus is that of your main purpose which in the 
Department of Interior is our resources, our parks, our minerals, 
our oils, and not necessarily the management. 

And perhaps that would be a way, but I would, you know, of 
course, want to work with Secretary Babbitt. I think he has done 
an absolutely extraordinary job, and I might add that even though 
there have been published reports about undervaluation of oil for 
many, many years, this was the first time the Department of Inte- 
rior appointed a task force, issued a report, then acted on the re- 
port’s recommendations constructively to correct it. 

And I think they have done — I think that I am going to rec- 
ommend them for one of Vice President Gore’s — ^what are they — the 
Hammer Awards for government employees who do a good job be- 
cause I think they have done a wonderful job with those. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. Thank you, Mrs. Maloney. 

Mrs. Maloney. Thank you. 

Mrs. Gubin. Mr. Thornberry, did you have — Mr. Brady? Mr. 
Dooley? 

Mr. Dooley. Yes. Mrs. Maloney, before you leave, I just wanted 
to ask one question. I appreciate all the work you have done. 



16 


Mrs. Maloney. The last time I saw you you were on the floor. 

Mr. Dooley. I know it. 

Mrs. Maloney. Now, you are back up here. I think when I left 
my office you were on the floor giving a good speech. 

Mr. Dooley. That is right. But, you know, a lot of it is appre- 
ciated — a lot of the work that you have done in terms of ensuring 
that taxpayers are getting their fair share of the royalties. I guess 
I come at this representing a lot of independent producers, and we 
are a little bit concerned with some of the proposals in terms of 
how are we going to ensure that the price is going to be reflective 
of the real price if they are being paid for their product. 

And as I was reading your testimony, I was somewhat struck be- 
cause it seems like there is one sentence in your testimony that al- 
most expresses a similar concern, and when you were talking about 
how the in-kind will be difficult because you are concerned you will 
not be able to safeguard the public’s revenue interest against post- 
ed prices, you go on to say, however, if the real independent pro- 
ducers cannot obtain market value, how can the Federal Govern- 
ment. 

And my concern is is you are making a statement there that 
independent producers are not necessarily receiving what will be 
the fair market value, which MMS and I think which you are pro- 
posing will be reflected by an ANS price if you are from California, 
as I am. And some of us are not convinced that that is actually 
going to occur. In your statement, you state that they are not re- 
ceiving that now. 

Now, I hope that you are sensitive as we try to move forward, 
you know, to make sure that that price of which the independents 
are going to be paid on for their royalties are going to be a function 
of is, in fact, the price that they are receiving for the oil. And do 
you acknowledge — is this a problem? I mean, it seems to be as you 
have stated in your testimony. 

Mrs. Maloney. I agree absolutely, completely. Congressman, 
and, in fact, many independent producers have written my office 
and actually have come by personally to see me in support of the 
work of the Subcommittee on the valuation of oil. 

Mr. Dooley. So would that mean that you would then be op- 
posed to what MMS is proposing in terms of using a benchmark 
at ANS for independent producers? 

Mrs. Maloney. No. I think that you need to — the independent 
producers want the true value of the oil. Right? And that is the 
value that we want, which is the 

Mr. Dooley. They want to pay royalties on the price of the oil — 
on what they are being paid for the oil that they are selling? 

Mrs. Maloney. Right, exactly, exactly. 

Mr. Dooley. Well, what you are saying in your testimony is that 
sometimes they are not receiving what the fair market price is and 
which we are assuming that what MMS is proposing is that the 
fair market price will either be a New York Exchange price or an 
ANS price? 

Mrs. Maloney. Yes. 

Mr. Dooley. And so, you know, my concern is if you are ac- 
knowledging they are not getting paid that fair price now, we are 



17 


going to implement a system which is going to ensure that they are 
paying higher royalties than what they should. 

Mrs. Maloney. Well, we should separate the independents from 
the majors in the regulations. 

Mr. Dooley. Thank you. 

Mrs. Maloney. But, you know, what we looked at in our com- 
mittee which was getting the best price for the American taxpayer. 
And the task force showed that the price that the oil companies 
themselves were paying was Alaska North Slope in the case of 
California, or the New York Mercantile Exchange for the others. I 
am not an expert on the oil industry. We were not looking at it ex- 
cept for in a management role, which is the role of the committee. 

I do know that several independent producers from California 
and other states came to my office in support of having a system 
that was not posted prices but, in fact, Alaska North Slope. So they 
did, you know, support that work. And whatever their concerns 
are, I would like to listen to them even more. 

But in terms of the work of the committee and the reports com- 
ing out of MMS and the proposed system that MMS has suggested 
in the regulations, the ones that came to my office were totally sup- 
portive of it. Now, if there are other independent producers who 
have a different problem, I am not aware of it. 

And as you pointed out, I don’t represent an oil state. I was not 
coming at it from a state interest. I was coming at it from the pur- 
pose of the committee on which I serve, which is better manage- 
ment of government resources and reports that come forward that 
oil is greatly undervalued and that California, Wyoming, and oth- 
ers — in fact, it was California that the whole issue really high- 
lighted out of the collection system of the State of California. 

Mr. Dooley. Well, I think most of the independents or represent- 
atives of their associations have come out in opposition and ex- 
pressing some real concerns about the valuation process; at least 
that is what the associations are communicating to me. The other 
point I would make is 

Mrs. Maloney. What is their problem with the valuation proc- 
ess? 

Mr. Dooley. Well, precisely what you said in your testimony. I 
mean, what you stated in your testimony was, however, if the real 
independent producers cannot obtain market value, how can the 
Federal Government. You have made a statement that independent 
producers are not obtaining fair market value. What MMS is pro- 
posing is that fair market value can be determined by an ANS 
benchmark. And you have already acknowledged that that is not 
happening. 

And so my concern is that you are stating in your testimony that 
my guys, my independent producers are going to be paying a high- 
er royalty than what they should based on what they are receiving 
for the oil that they are producing, and that to me is an inequity 
that we need to be concerned about. 

Mrs. Maloney. We agree some of the independents feel that the 
majors give them an inequity, but, again, we were acting on the re- 
port of the task force that said the majors — and the task force re- 
port focused on majors, not the independents — said that the major 
oil companies — 10 to be exact — ^were basing their prices internally 



18 


on Alaskan North Slope and the New York Mercantile Exchange, 
and that the posted prices were much lower than those two stand- 
ards. 

If independents — ^you know, maybe there should be separate reg- 
ulations for the independents given the specific problems that the 
independent oil companies have. And I would like to go back and 
meet with some independent oil companies and become more aware 
of their particular problems. 

But, as I said, you know, I am not the Department of Interior. 
We were looking at a report that oil was greatly undervalued, and 
we acted on it. But you raised an important point, and I agree with 
the great Congressman from the great State of California, which 
actually brought this attention to the national level in the first 
place. 

Mr. Thornberry. [presiding] Mr. John, you have something? 

Mr. John. Yes. I don’t particularly have a question for the 
gentlelady from New York, but with the pleasure and the OK of 
the Chairman, I would like to make just a little observation, a little 
statement about the importance of this issue. 

Being from Louisiana, oil and gas industry is very, very impor- 
tant. As I served in the legislature, $1 billion in royalties is part 
of the Louisiana budget for the State of Louisiana. So this issue is 
very, very important. 

And, moreover, than just the State of Louisiana, my district, 
which sits on the Gulf of Mexico and bordered by the State of 
Texas, is what I like to call the heartbeat of the offshore oil and 
gas industry of the Upper Gulf of Mexico. So this issue is very im- 
portant and very vital to my constituency, the oil and gas industry, 
and the taxpayers of the State of Louisiana. 

I think we must keep in mind as we go through these pro- 
ceedings that I believe the bottom line, and to make it as simple 
possible, is that we need to look at the cost associated with the pro- 
posed system and the systems already in place. What does it cost 
MMS now to evaluate the problems that are caused, and what is 
the value? Is it wellhead or is it whatever? Or what is it going to 
cost to revamp a collections agency to go toward the in-kind. 

So I think if we keep that in mind, that is the ultimate decision 
that this Committee is going to have to do and decide upon. So I 
just wanted to make a statement that it is very, very important to 
my district in my State of Louisiana. And I thank the Chairman 
of the Committee for holding these hearings. Thanks. 

Mrs. Maloney. Well, I thank you. And many of the attorney gen- 
erals of the states that many of you represent that are oil-pro- 
ducing states have been in contact with our offices and the central 
committee, most of whom are supportive of our efforts to revamp 
the system. 

Mr. John. Well, this issue, like many others, has its proponents 
and opponents, but I am anxious to hear the gentlemen from the — 
or the testimony from the State of Texas that actually has an in- 
kind program in the state on state waters and state lands to see 
how it is working. I think I am interested in hearing that testi- 
mony. Thanks. 

Mrs. Maloney. Well, I look forward to reading about it too. 
Thank you very much. I appreciate your time. 



19 


Mr. Thornberry. Mrs. Maloney, thank you for your testimony. 
And certainly if your schedule permits, we would certainly invite 
you to stay and sit up on the dais and listen to the testimony from 
the State of Texas where they have had such a program since 1973. 
I think it would be helpful for everyone. 

We would call the next panel now; Jim Magagna, Director, Office 
of State Lands and Investments, Office of Federal Land Policy, 
State of Wyoming; Spencer Reid, Deputy Land Commissioner, 
Texas General Land Office; and David Darouse, Mineral Revenue 
Regional Auditor Supervisor, Department of Natural Resources, 
from Baton Rouge, Louisiana. 

Gentlemen, we appreciate each of you being here today and will- 
ing to share your perspectives with us on this issue. Mr. Reid, we 
will let you start, and we will just go down the line from our right 
to left. 


STATEMENT OF SPENCER REID, DEPUTY LAND 
COMMISSIONER, TEXAS GENERAL LAND OFFICE 

Mr. Reid. Mr. Chairman and members, Texas Land Commis- 
sioner Garry Mauro appreciates the invitation to appear before the 
Subcommittee today and to discuss the Texas royalty-in-kind pro- 
gram and regrets that he is unable to personally attend, and he 
has asked that I speak on his behalf. 

One thing I would like to point out is we were asked to bring 
comments about our experience with our program, and these com- 
ments are not intended to address any particular proposals that 
are pending. We haven’t addressed anything in here like that. 

We have been very pleased with the results of our in-kind pro- 
grams and are glad to share this information. While royalty-in-kind 
may not cure all of the disputes that arise between royalty owners 
and producers, our experience in Texas has been that it does pro- 
vide a means to substantially reduce royalty disputes, valuation 
disputes particularly, reduce costs to both the states and the lessee, 
and provide the royalty owner with an opportunity to obtain an en- 
hanced return. 

For those of you not familiar with the Texas General Land Of- 
fice, it is headed by an elected state official. The principal duty he 
has is to manage 20 million acres of state lands of which about 15 
million have minerals under them, of that about 5 million is off- 
shore of Texas either in the Gulf of Mexico or in the various bays 
of the state. 

And all of the land there is dedicated to the Permanent School 
Fund or one of the Permanent University Funds. The Permanent 
School Fund last year — the General Land Office deposited about 
$155 million, which I know in Federal standards isn’t a lot of 
money, but for Texas that has allowed us to build on a fund now 
approaching $14 billion for support of public education in Texas. 

There is also the Permanent University Fund in Texas that has 
another — it has got over $5 billion that is operated by the Univer- 
sity of Texas. It has a lot of land out on Permanent Basin. As to 
the relative size of our production, we have about 33 billion cubic 
feet of natural gas, which if Texas were a producer in its own right 
would put us in probably the top 50 producers in the country. 



20 


The Texas program has been going on for about 14 years. It has 
accelerated in the recent years. Over that time, we have enhanced 
our income to the Permanent School Fund by $11 million in gas 
and $5 million in oil. And another component of the state program 
which is something that really is kind of the gist of our program, 
we save state agencies in Texas over $90 million over that same 
period of time in energy costs by selling them state gas from state 
leases directly to state consumers. 

Our in-kind program originated in the early 70’s. The legislature 
passed the first statutory authorization for the program in 1973. 
From then until the early 80’s, we took relatively small volumes of 
gas and sold them in the marketplace just like a marketer. 

In 1983, we began marketing gas directly to end-users, and by 
the end of 1985, it was expanded to include state agencies. This ex- 
panded programs concentrated on sales to agencies, universities, 
and public facilities. The goals of the program were twofold: first, 
to generate more revenue to the Permanent School Fund and to 
save money for the state agencies. 

The Texas legislature has consistently supported the program 
and in recent years has enacted laws that assured the smooth oper- 
ation of the state program. Any state agency contract for over 100 
Mcf of gas per day must be submitted to the General Land Office 
to see if we can provide state gas and get them a better price. And 
then we are able to transport gas and gas utility lines. They are 
prohibited from — well, they are required to carry state gas if they 
have capacity if it is destined for a state agency. 

In addition to the natural gas in-kind program, the Land Office 
takes approximately 2,400 barrels of oil per day and sells it in- 
kind. That is 45 percent of our total production, our total royalty 
share. The oil is sold under 6-month contracts at bid sales. Prices 
are bid at premiums to posted prices, and at the last sale in April, 
the premium was as high as $2.08 over the commonly used posting. 

Last fiscal year, the gas program sold approximately 9.1 Bcf to 
state agencies and 2.6 Bcf were sold on the spot market. Our total 
gas sales represent about 35 percent of our total production — our 
total royalty share, let us say. Our spot market sales assure that 
adequate supplies have been retained to meet our state end-user 
program. Gas is currently being taken in-kind from 105 leases, al- 
most all of them offshore. 

The contracts are in place with 103 state facilities, 28 state col- 
leges and universities, and six other governmental bodies, includ- 
ing school districts, small cities. Transportation contracts are cur- 
rently maintained with 35 different pipeline companies and local 
gas distribution companies. And we maintain a contract for up to 
one Bcf of gas storage in a facility near Houston. 

Sales of gas on the spot market are sold through monthly solici- 
tations of interest from prequalified gas marketers. We currently 
have about seven marketers that bid on this. In order to qualify, 
marketers must show financial stability. But in order to encourage 
small business participation, the Land Office maintains a credit 
risk insurance for those contracts. 

Since 1973, all state oil and gas leases have provided for the 
right of the state to take royalty-in-kind upon 60 days’ notice of our 



21 


intent to do so. On some leases, we have been able to negotiate in- 
kind those that were issued prior to 1973. 

Once we have exercised our right to take-in-kind for a particular 
lease, we make every effort to continue to take gas from the lease 
in order not to burden the lessee by alternately taking and not tak- 
ing. We do have the authority to not take. We generally take pos- 
session at the point in which it has been made ready for sale or 
commercial use through the removal of water, natural gas liquids, 
and impurities. 

Costs of transportation and other direct costs, together with the 
markup or enhancement, which is what the additional royalty paid 
the school funds is termed, and a set administrative fee that pays 
for our operating costs of the program are charged to the gas pur- 
chasers — the end-user purchasers. 

In all but a few cases, prices to the end-user agency are below 
those available from private sources and are lower than local util- 
ity costs in almost every instance. 

We make a decision at every sale and the local — the agency is 
authorized to not buy from us if it is going to cost them money. 

Gas and oil producers on state lands have almost been uniformly 
supportive of both the gas and oil in-kind programs. We don’t have 
specific figures on the administrative savings and other benefits, 
but they are undoubtedly there. It is a lot easier to account for vol- 
umes of oil or gas physically delivered than to account for both vol- 
umes delivered and the market value of those volumes. 

Delivering in-kind relieves the producer of the obligation to ac- 
count for the market value of the gas and relieves the Land Office 
from the burden of conducting the financial audits of producers. 
Once accurate delivery is established, the producer no longer needs 
to be concerned state auditors will dispute the value that they re- 
ceived. 

Our programs are so successful we are looking at privatization 
of our programs or bringing in a gas marketing firm. We put out 
a RFP last summer. We have gone through the process and got 
down to the company that we are negotiating final contract with. 

The contract provisions provide that we are negotiating for an 
expansion of our end-user program. They will take a three cents fee 
for doing that activity. And then the balance of it, if we have over- 
ages, essentially works out to a gas sales contract indexed to a 
pipeline. 

I will close by just saying that Texas is very interested in a way 
to obtain its share of Federal royalties that were paid in-kind. Vol- 
ume is the name of the game in this business, and we would be 
very anxious to work with Congress and Interior staff to see if a 
way can be worked out to do that. 

[Prepared statement of Mr. Reid follows:] 

Statement of Spencer Reid, Deputy Land Commissioner, Texas General Land 

Office 

Ms. Chairman and Members: 

Texas Land Commissioner Garry Mauro appreciates the invitation to appear be- 
fore you to discuss the Texas royalty in-kind program, and regrets that he is unable 
to be here. He has asked that I speak on his behalf. 

The Land Office has been pleased with the results of our in-kind programs and 
are glad to share information about them with you. While royalty in kind may not 
cure all of the disputes that arise between royalty owners and producers, our experi- 



22 


ence in Texas is that it does provide a means to substantially reduce royalty dis- 
putes, reduce costs to both the State and the lessee, and provide the royalty owner 
an opportunity to obtain an enhanced return. 

For those of you not familiar with the General Land Office, please allow me to 
briefly explain our role. The Land Commissioner, who heads our agency, is an elect- 
ed official. One of his main duties is to manage the more than 20 million acres of 
public lands and minerals owned by the various Texas government departments, 
most prominently, the Permanent School Fund, a trust fund that supports public 
education in Texas. In the fiscal year ending August 31, 1996, $165 million were 
deposited in the Permanent School Fund, which, although not large by Federal 
standards, has nonetheless allowed Texas to create a school endowment worth over 
fourteen billion dollars. The State’s Permanent University Fund, which is similarly 
structured, is valued at over five billion dollars. As to the relative size of State pro- 
duction, the approximately 33 billion cubic feet of natural gas that represents our 
annual royalty share would rank the School Fund in the top 50 of the largest pro- 
ducers of natural gas in the United States. 

Over the past fourteen years, the Texas in-kind program has enhanced royalty in- 
come for our Permanent School Fund by over $11 million in gas royalty and $5.1 
million in oil royalty, saved State agencies over $90 million in gas utility bills, and 
saved untold thousands of dollars for the General Land Office and oil and gas pro- 
ducers by eliminating the need for financial accounting for royalty volumes of oil 
and gas taken in-kind. The program’s past success has led me to seek to expand 
the program through a new public private alliance that I will describe for you in 
a few minutes. 

The Texas in-kind program originated in the early 1970’s. The Texas Legislature 
passed the first statutory authorization for the in-kind program in 1973. From then 
until the early 1980’s, relatively small volumes of gas were sold in the market to 
obtain better prices than were being paid in cash royalties. In 1983, the General 
Land Office began marketing gas directly to end-users and by the end of 1985, the 
program was expanded to include State agencies. 

This expanded program has concentrated on sales to State agencies, universities, 
and other public facilities. The goals of the program are twofold — first, to enhance 
income to the Permanent School Fund, the principal beneficiary of State royalty in- 
come. The second goal is to reduce gas costs to State facilities by providing State 
gas at prices below those charged by gas utilities. 

The Texas Legislature has consistently supported the program and, in recent 
years, has enacted laws that assure the smooth operation of the State program. One 
such statute requires all State agencies that consume at least an average of 100 Mcf 
of gas per day to submit all gas acquisition contracts to the General Land Office 
for review. If the Land Office is able to provide gas at the same or lower cost, it 
may require the agency to purchase gas from it. Another supportive statute requires 
all regulated gas utilities to provide transportation of State gas if capacity is avail- 
able on their systems and it is destined for a state agency. These transportation 
rates are competitive with those provided to private parties. 

In addition to the natural gas in-kind program, the Land Office takes in-kind ap- 
proximately 2400 barrels of oil per day. This oil is sold under six-month contracts 
through a sealed bid auction. Prices are bid at premiums to posted prices. At the 
last sale, held in April, these premiums were as high as $2.08 over one commonly 
used posting. 

Last fiscal year, the gas program sold approximately 9.1 Bcf of gas to State agen- 
cies and another 2.6 Bcf on the spot market which represented 35 percent of our 
total royalty production. Spot market sales assure that adequate supplies have been 
secured to meet State end-user demand. Gas is currently being taken in-kind from 
105 leases, almost all of which are located along the coast. Sales contracts are in 
place with 103 State facilities, twenty-eight State colleges and universities, and six 
other government bodies, including school districts and small municipalities. Trans- 
portation contracts are currently maintained with thirty-five different pipelines and 
local gas distributing companies. We also maintain a contract for up to one Bcf of 
natural gas storage at a facility near Houston. 

Sales of gas on the spot market are made through monthly solicitations of interest 
from pre-qualified gas marketers, of whom there are currently seven. In order to 
qualify, marketers must show financial stability. In addition, to encourage small 
business participation, the Land Office maintains credit risk insurance. 

Since 1973, all State oil and gas leases and statutes have provided for the right 
of the State to take royalty in-kind upon sixty days notice of our intent to do so. 
On some leases issued prior to 1973, in-kind takes have been provided for by agree- 
ment. Once we have exercised our right to take in-kind for a particular lease, we 
make every effort to continue to take gas from that lease in order not to burden 



23 


the lessee by alternately taking and not taking. We generally take possession of the 
gas at the point at which it has been made ready for sale or commercial use through 
the removal of water, natural gas liquids, and impurities. 

Costs of transportation and other direct costs, together with a markup or “en- 
hancement” and a set administrative fee are charged to the gas purchasers. In all 
but a few cases, prices to the end-user agency are below those available from private 
sources, and are lower than local utility costs in almost every instance. 

Gas and oil producers on State lands have been almost uniformly supportive of 
both the gas and oil in-kind programs. Although I do not have specific figures, the 
administrative savings and other benefits to both producers and the Land Office are 
clear. It is far easier to account for volumes of oil or gas physically delivered than 
it is to account for both the volumes delivered and the market value of those vol- 
umes. Delivery in-kind relieves the producer of the obligation to account for the 
market value of the gas and relieves the Land Office from the burden of conducting 
financial audits of producers. Once accurate delivery is established, the producer no 
longer needs to be concerned that State auditors will dispute the prices that the pro- 
ducer received. 

The in-kind programs have been so successful that we are now, as I mentioned, 
starting the process of revising and more than doubling the gas program. The 
changes in the natural gas marketplace in the past several years have made it pos- 
sible, I believe, to form a public/private alliance with a gas marketing firm that will 
bring the very specialized expertise of that kind of operation together with the gas 
supply and markets that my office can provide, to the benefit of both the State and 
the private company. 

Last year, we invited over 60 gas marketing firms to submit initial proposals to 
the General Land Office for just such a public-private alliance. In the invitation, 
firms were asked to propose plans for their management of our end-user program, 
the creation of a natural gas liquids sales program, and to purchase the balance of 
our natural gas supply, approximately 15 Bcf per year at a price linked to the mar- 
ket price, and preferably at a premium. As a result of the responses to that invita- 
tion, a marketing firm was selected to begin finalizing a marketing contract by next 
fall. 

It is in this context that the State of Texas is interested in a way to obtain its 
OSCLA share of production allocated to the States. The name of the game in gas 
marketing is, of course, volume. These 8(g) volumes are approximately 11 to 15 mil- 
lion cubic feet per day. We would be anxious to work with Congressional and inte- 
rior staff to accomplish this task. 

We believe that in-kind royalty is worth the consideration of any royalty owner 
that has the opportunity to take marketable volumes of oil or gas or has the oppor- 
tunity to join with other royalty owners or producers in marketing significant vol- 
umes. 

Mr. Thornberry. Thank you, Mr. Reid, and I failed to mention 
that without objection each of our full statements will be made part 
of the record. We will have a vote in just a moment, but for now 
we would like to continue, Mr. Darouse. I think we have certainly 
got time to have your statement in, and we will see how we get 
from there. We have got 15 minutes before we have to be over 
there. 

STATEMENT OF DAVID DAROUSE, MINERAL REVENUE RE- 
GIONAL AUDITOR SUPERVISOR, DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL 

RESOURCES, BATON ROUGE, LOUISIANA 

Mr. Darouse. Thank you. Madam Chairman, and good after- 
noon. My name is David Darouse. I work for Secretary Jack 
Caldwell at the Louisiana Department of Natural Resources. He is 
unable to attend today so I am here at his behest. The purpose of 
my testimony today is to explain and summarize our written testi- 
mony that we submitted earlier in the week and expound upon it 
and answer questions as time permits. 

It is obvious from our written testimony that we feel that in Lou- 
isiana, at least, there are certain legislative impediments that do 
not allow the state to take oil and gas in-kind and receive the max- 



24 


imum price that it could, and those are laid out in our written tes- 
timony. 

But let us assume for discussion purposes that these impedi- 
ments were not in the way and look at how a program would oper- 
ate. There are certain things that we need, to have a successful 
take-in-kind program, and we also need to look at how success of 
such a program would be measured. 

One thing that we need are large volumes of oil and gas con- 
centrated geographically in one area so that we can move these vol- 
umes to an aggregation point at low expense, to where we can ex- 
tract the maximum price possible by selling to third parties. 

In the 8[g] area, unfortunately, Louisiana participates in about 
35 or 40 leases that are spread out from the Louisiana-Texas bor- 
der — literally laying on the border — all the way to the Louisiana- 
Mississippi border over in Chandeleur Sound. 

Out of those 35 to 40 leases, we have really only 20 or 25 that 
are major-producing leases, and, again, they are spread out — not 
randomly — some are aggregated in certain areas — ^but more or less 
randomly across that strip of water. So we don’t really have the 
concentrated geographic volumes that we can easily and inexpen- 
sively aggregate and move to a market and sell at a premium price. 

But considering that we did have the concentrated volumes, 
which may occur some day, how should we measure the success of 
a potential take-in-kind program? One important criteria would be 
to measure the net revenues from a take-in-kind program against 
the existing royalty-in-value program that we have currently. 

Net revenues would be defined as the gross revenues from a 
take-in-kind sale less the additional costs that will occur in getting 
that sale, and we have laid out a number of services: experts, fore- 
casters, consultants, that we feel like we would have to have. 
Maybe not all of these but certainly some would have to be added 
to staff, either hired for the state to work for us or hired as con- 
tractors. 

Let us look at the current oil — not regulations — we don’t have 
regulations in Louisiana — but how we are currently enforcing our 
oil leases in Louisiana. The program that we have in place is to 
value oil that is sold nonarm’s length, not oil that independents or 
anybody sells to a third party, but oil that is sold nonarm’s length 
to an affiliate or marketing arm of the producer, for value of that 
oil at what we call market price which we determine as either the 
Empire Louisiana spot price or the St. James Louisiana spot price, 
depending on whether we are looking at heavy oil or light oil. 

Those prices are published by several major publications who 
survey those markets on a daily basis. The publications are well- 
known. Platt’s Oilgram is one. Bloomberg’s Oil Buyer’s Guide is an- 
other. So in situations where the oil is sold nonarm’s length, we are 
currently getting royalty-in-value or trying to get royalty-in-value 
by assessing those values against the values currently reported. 

We are getting market value currently. We feel like on oil — like 
we are getting on oil or we are trying to get market value on oil. 
If we went to an in-kind program by taking oil in-kind, we feel like 
in the best situation, a competent marketer striking a competent 
deal on any given day can only get the price that we were getting 



25 


currently at Empire and St. James. That doesn’t even consider the 
additional marketing cost. 

So we feel like oil take-in-kind would basically be a no-go for the 
state in the 8[g] zone or on state leases. On gas, we feel like an 
opportunity does exist for the state or the MMS to make money by 
marketing gas themselves. There are currently no spot prices 
across the country and specifically across Louisiana other than one 
location at the Henry Hub that gas value can be pegged to. 

So in situations where we don’t know what the value of natural 
gas is due to interaffiliate transfers, by taking gas in-kind and sell- 
ing it and aggregating it on the open market, then that is a pos- 
sible moneymaker for the state and we feel like also for the Federal 
Government. 

We commend the MMS for the past years of starting a pilot pro- 
gram back in 1994 which, although it was not revenue neutral, ob- 
tained many valuable lessons for the Minerals Management Serv- 
ice to apply in future take-in-kind programs. 

We also applaud the MMS for having outreach programs over the 
last year where they have held meetings across the country solic- 
iting input from various constituents such as states and industry. 
And we think they are heading in the right direction by realisti- 
cally investigating potential R-I-K programs. And with that, I will 
conclude my comments. 

[Prepared statement of Mr. Darouse may be found at end of 
hearing.] 

Mr. Thornberry. Thank you, sir. I appreciate it. Mr. Magagna, 
we will go ahead and let you. I believe we have time to get your 
statement in if you would like to proceed in that way. When we 
come back, we can start with questions. 

STATEMENT OF JIM MAGAGNA, DIRECTOR, OFFICE OF STATE 

LANDS AND INVESTMENTS, OFFICE OF FEDERAL LAND POL- 
ICY, STATE OF WYOMING 

Mr. Magagna. OK. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am Jim 
Magagna, Director of the Office of State Lands and Investments for 
the State of Wyoming. I want to take this opportunity to applaud 
the initiative of Chairman Cubin in providing this important dialog 
for the royalty-in-kind issue. 

The State of Wyoming, under our Governor Jim Geringer, has as- 
sumed a leadership role, we believe, in seeking development and 
implementation of a cost-effective and efficient royalty-in-kind pro- 
gram providing an opportunity for full participation by affected 
states. We appreciate this opportunity to share our efforts and our 
expectations with members of the Subcommittee. 

As I have indicated in my written testimony, part of Wyoming’s 
initial effort to look at the option of a royalty-in-kind program cer- 
tainly and admittedly has been driven by our frustrations with the 
current value based Federal royalty program. The Chairman ear- 
lier provided figures as to the tremendous amount of revenues and 
level of dependence that the State of Wyoming has on this. 

And since the initiation of net receipt sharing in 1991, we have 
been frustrated in our efforts to truly define what are the costs of 
administration that are being borne in part by the State of Wyo- 
ming through the deduct from our gross royalty revenues. 



26 


We were further frustrated when the Minerals Management 
Service announced a devolution proposal nearly 2 years ago and 
then quickly withdrew that proposal. We did work very closely with 
the Administration and with Congress in the development and pas- 
sage of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Simplification and Fair- 
ness Act. 

While we think it represented in many areas an important step 
forward, it was still very limiting from our perspective in the dele- 
gable functions which were recognized for the states. And it pro- 
vided far greater secretarial discretion in delegation than we had 
hoped for. However, we do continue to work with Minerals Manage- 
ment Service in developing standards and guidelines for the imple- 
mentation of this Act. 

To comment only briefly on the valuation issue, we recognize and 
share concern that there are problems with the current system 
with valuation as it applies to non-arm’s length transactions, and 
we applaud the Minerals Management Service for their efforts to 
address this. However, we feel that the attempt to impose a single 
index type figure based on the NYMEX or some simpler guideline 
does not apply to the situation that exists in Wyoming. 

We have a unique situation here today with the completion of the 
Express Pipeline which will suddenly bring an additional 140 to 
170,000 barrels of oil a day from Canada into Wyoming, some of 
which will stay in the Rocky Mountain region refineries. 

What we have seen already in three short months of experience 
with that indicates that the impact of an activity like that on the 
market available to producers operating in Wyoming is very di- 
verse from its impact on a national market as expressed by an 
index such as the NYMEX. We have seen some significant price de- 
clines in Wyoming as a result of this increased foreign supply that 
simply have not been reflected in the NYMEX or other standard- 
ized measurements to date. 

But Wyoming is driven every bit as much by the opportunities 
for revenue enhancement that we see in the royalty-in-kind pro- 
gram, and we recognize that with those opportunities comes risk. 
We as a state are prepared to assume those risks that are associ- 
ated with the private sector in the marketplace and that are nec- 
essary if you are to achieve the rewards that can be associated with 
that. 

As a first important step in this direction, the 1997 session of the 
Wyoming Legislature passed legislation authorizing the Governor 
to take the state’s share of Eederal mineral royalties in-kind should 
Eederal law and policy so permit. This was a strong statement by 
our legislature of their desire to have the state move in this direc- 
tion. 

In followup to this, as a part of the Minerals Management Serv- 
ice’s effort to look at possible pilot projects, Wyoming has offered 
a pilot project to the Minerals Management Service. We are appre- 
ciative of their efforts in working with us. 

However, I would offer one note of caution. While we believe that 
there is value in a pilot process in order to test a methodology for 
a royalty-in-kind program. Due to the inability to aggregate large 
volumes and reduce administrative costs in a pilot program, we feel 



27 


it should not be looked upon as a test of the net ability to enhance 
revenues as a result of royalty-in-kind. 

I would like to move on and quickly focus on some of the key ele- 
ments that the State of Wyoming believes are critical in a Federal 
royalty-in-kind program in order to allow full participation by the 
states. The first and most important of these would be that the 
state would have an absolute right which it could exercise to re- 
ceive at or near the lease its 50 percent gross share of Federal roy- 
alty oil and gas. 

We would further encourage that the states be given an oppor- 
tunity, or a preference I might say, to also acquire and market on 
the Federal Government’s behalf the Federal 50 percent share pro- 
vided that the net return to the Federal Government would not be 
reduced thereby. 

Because it has clearly been shown that there are advantages to 
aggregation through the market strength that comes with larger 
volumes, allowing the state to potentially handle 100 percent of the 
royalty volume would be a step in the right direction. 

We do think it is important in a royalty-in-kind program that the 
state be entitled to the full 50 percent of its gross share of Federal 
mineral royalties, and that the state then bear the marketing costs, 
the state bear the risks associated therewith, but not be put in a 
position of having to bear the Federal administrative costs, which 
we would hope would be dramatically reduced as a result of a roy- 
alty-in-kind program. I am aware of several additional principles 
that the industry has developed, and we would be supportive of 
these. 

Finally, let me say that a royalty-in-kind program is not a simple 
step forward. I believe it does involve a major reengineering of the 
current approach to royalty receipt. We have had the opportunity 
to personally view the program in operation in Alberta, Canada. 
While their situation is very different, we believe that their pro- 
gram as it currently operates would provide a good starting point 
for the development of a Federal program in the states. 

But I would emphasize in closing the importance that we see in 
the development of a program that this be done as a joint effort in- 
volving the Minerals Management Service, the affected states, and 
the industry on an equal footing basis. What comes out of this 
would be something that there is a comfort level with that it will 
work for all of the various interests. Again, I want to take this op- 
portunity to thank you for being able to appear before the com- 
mittee today. 

[Prepared statement of Mr. Magagna may be found at end of 
hearing.] 

Mr. Thornberry. Well, thank you and I appreciate all of the tes- 
timony of each of you gentlemen. We are going to have to go vote. 
We have a few minutes of debate and then the vote on the tax bill. 
I just want to make one comment before we do that. As some of 
you may know, I introduced a royalty-in-kind bill last Congress. 
Anybody who suggests that that was an effort by the oil and gas 
companies was not around because that was certainly not the case. 
They were less than enthusiastic about that idea. 

The motivation is what it can mean for the taxpayers, and those 
are the ones that I think really have some to benefit, as well as 



28 


the states. And we have a lot to learn from what is going on in 
your states, what is going on in Alberta, the input of the industry, 
and the very valuable input that MMS is gaining in their meetings 
across the country. 

And I want to get that input because my plan in September is 
to introduce another royalty-in-kind bill because I think it is impor- 
tant to push this idea forward, to have something to talk about, 
and I want to see this move forward for the taxpayers and for ev- 
eryone. And so that is the kind of input that we will look forward 
to. We will recess temporarily as we go vote. 

[Recess.] 

Mrs. CuBiN. [presiding] Please pardon me for having to be gone. 
I had a bill that I am the sponsor of being marked up in another 
committee. And then, as you know, for the first time in 16 years 
we just voted a tax cut for middle class Americans and all Ameri- 
cans. And we are really happy to have done that. I think I will let 
Mr. Brady question the panel to begin. 

Mr. Brady. Thank you. Madam Chairman, very much. I appre- 
ciate the panel, first, your testimony and, second, the patience you 
have for us to go vote today. I guess for Mr. Reid, because I am 
from Texas and pleased with how the system works, as a member 
of the legislature I have supported some of the changes to make 
that program more efficient, more effective as you learn how to do 
it well and better. And we are very pleased with the results. 

Two thoughts: one, I am impressed with the efficiency of the 
Texas R-I-K program versus the current Federal in-value system 
on the basis of employees. And could you at some time provide to 
the Subcommittee a table showing the staff-to-volume ratio in 
Texas for both your oil and your gas programs? 

Mr. Reid. I would be happy to. 

Mr. Brady. And, second, do you have any suggestions on how the 
Texas program could be expanded to a Federal program? 

Mr. Reid. If I understand your question, one of the issues with 
the Texas program, of course, is so much of the benefits we receive 
there come from the agency end-use program. Obviously, the Fed- 
eral Government is a major consumer of gas, and there might be 
a potential for a similar program at the Federal level. 

As far as our experience on our in-kind, our spot sales say of gas 
or oil sales, the issue in Texas — we do have a situation where we 
have enough quantities — ^volumes in enough concentration for it to 
work. I mean, there may be selected areas where MMS may have 
the ability to do that. 

Our spot sales do not generate the spread that our agency sales 
do in terms of our enhancement. When you look at our total en- 
hancement, they are probably less than 5 percent of it. But in 
terms of how it works, I mean, we handle it in-house. We are look- 
ing at a private marketing firm to do it. 

And in Texas it is really a cost benefit analysis. If we make more 
money doing it the other way, we will do it. If we don’t make more 
money for the school fund, we won’t. And we do a cost benefit anal- 
ysis periodically on our gas program and on every oil sale to see 
whether we are really generating more revenue for the school fund 
than we would have received as a royalty payment. 



29 


Mr. Brady. So it is in the State of Texas program. Rather than 
using state resources passively to regulate and audit, you use it ac- 
tively to get the most value for those in-kind products that you re- 
ceive. Is that correct? 

Mr. Reid. Right. 

Mr. Brady. Thank you very much for your testimony. I appre- 
ciate it. And the representative from Louisiana, a question for you. 
Do you have an assessment or have you done an assessment of the 
cost savings of shifting your current audit staff and litigation ex- 
penses you have into a marketing type of program? Have you had 
an opportunity to take a look at that type of change? 

Mr. Darouse. No, sir, we have not. 

Mr. Brady. Is your program a bit — in your opinion, has it been 
restrictive in its criteria as you have tried to enter the market and 
look at the oil side of it or the gas side of it? Do you feel like there 
are improvements in the Louisiana program that could allow you 
to make it more effective? 

Mr. Darouse. Our written comment addressed that. We think 
that if there are certain changes made legislatively, and if condi- 
tions change, that it would be beneficial to market our gas in-kind. 
Right now there just seems to be a consensus that there are some 
prohibitions against doing this effectively. I know back in 1985 or 
1986 we considered a program similar to where Texas ended up 
and that would be taking state gas in-kind and sending it to insti- 
tutions, and it never really got off of the ground. 

Mr. Brady. But that would be an implementation that could as- 
sist the cost benefit part of the program for the State of Louisiana 
and could generate more 

Mr. Darouse. Yes, sir. To a certain extent, yes, sir. 

Mr. Brady. Great. Thank you. Thank you. Madam Chairman. 

Mrs. Gubin. I want to welcome you, Mr. Magagna. Everyone 
knows you are from my great State of Wyoming, and thank you for 
your testimony. As usual, you always do a yeoman’s job for the 
state, for the Governor, and for me as well. And I want to thank 
you for that. 

While I wasn’t here to hear your testimony, I did read everyone’s 
testimony before the hearing so I do have an idea of what all your 
feelings are. But, Jim, your testimony about R-I-K was quite spe- 
cific on what you believe will be necessary for a success. 

And one of the things that you stated in your testimony was the 
states must have the right to receive 50 percent of the gross share 
in-kind. Does that mean that it would be entirely unacceptable to 
Wyoming to adopt to a R-I-K program like they have in Alberta 
where private marketers would sell all of the mineral? 

Mr. Magagna. Madam Chairman, no, not at all. In fact, we be- 
lieve that the appropriate way for a program to operate would be 
for the state to contract with private marketers to market the 
state’s royalty share. All I mean to say by that is that we should 
receive 50 percent of the gross without any obligation to any deduc- 
tion therefrom back to the Federal Government. 

Mrs. Gubin. I am not sure and so I hope someone will correct me 
if I am wrong about this, but I think that in Alberta they market 
all of the mineral so that I think the way it would be is that a mar- 



30 


keter would sell the Federal share and the state share together and 
then divide the money. Is that right? 

Mr. Magagna. All of it. 

Mrs. CUBIN. Right, right. But, anyway, that would be the meth- 
od, and is that an acceptable arrangement do you think for the 
State of Wyoming? 

Mr. Magagna. That the marketer would share 

Mrs. CuBiN. Would sell the Federal share and state share and 
then the money be divided after the sale. 

Mr. Magagna. That would be dependent on who negotiates that 
marketing contract. It is our belief that the state should be given 
the opportunity at least as to the state’s 50 percent gross of the 
royalty mineral to arrange for that marketing; in other words, to 
determine what the terms and conditions would be, to accept those 
risks associated with the marketplace, even though we would mar- 
ket through a third party marketer. 

We would not be comfortable with a situation that simply al- 
lowed the Federal Government to market 100 percent of the royalty 
share as they saw fit with the state simply being the recipient of 
a check for half of that amount. 

Mrs. CuBiN. So then would it be acceptable for Wyoming to be 
the marketer for all of the mineral and then divide the money and 
then give the Federal Government their share? 

Mr. Magagna. We would certainly find that acceptable, and we 
would anticipate if that were done and would be willing to accept 
that there would have to be some criteria in order to assure that 
the state, in fact, would not be getting less for the mineral than 
what the Federal Government might be capable of getting. With 
those parameters, certainly. 

Mrs. Gubin. I agree with you and your statement that de mini- 
mus-producing wells could really present a problem with R-I-K. 
However, as the provisions of the Royalty Fairness Act became im- 
plemented which would allow once a year royalty payments or a 
buyout of royalty obligations by lessors once a year with de mini- 
mus production, perhaps there would be room to consider how to 
take R-I-K for stripper wells. Do you have any thoughts on the cut- 
off production level for de minimus? 

Mr. Magagna. I really would not be prepared today to rec- 
ommend a particular cutoff level. But when you combine the provi- 
sions in the Royalty Fairness Act authorizing the annual payment 
or the buyout with a royalty-in-kind program, we would be hopeful 
as you put those together you would be able to thereby eliminate 
the need for a continuation of a valuation based royalty system be- 
cause that could be picked up through the specific provisions of the 
Fairness Act. 

Mrs. Gubin. My time is up and because we have already been 
interrupted with the vote and whatnot, with your permission, I 
would like to submit some written questions to you, and then we 
can move on to the next panel. Thank you very much for your testi- 
mony. And would the second panel please come forward? Thank 
you very much. 

I would like to introduce the second panel that is with us today; 
Mr. Larry Nichols, who is the President of Devon Energy; Fred 
Hagemeyer, the Coordinating Manager, Royalty Affairs for Mara- 



31 


thon Oil Company; Sue Ann Hamm, Vice President of Oil Mar- 
keting and Sales for Continental Resources; and Edmund Segner, 
III, Executive Vice President and Chief of Staff for Enron. 

I would like to remind the witnesses that under our Committee 
rules that the testimony must be limited to 5 minutes, and cer- 
tainly your entire testimony will appear in the record. So the Chair 
now recognizes Mr. Nichols for his testimony. 

STATEMENT OF LARRY NICHOLS, PRESIDENT, DEVON ENERGY 

Mr. Nichols. Well, thank you. Madam Chairman. I am Larry 
Nichols, President and CEO of Devon Energy Corporation, an inde- 
pendent producer who has Eederal onshore production. I am here 
today on behalf of Devon and 13 oil and gas associations who rep- 
resent most of the payers of Eederal oil and gas royalty payments. 

Eor the purpose of the hearing today, I will summarize my com- 
ments but ask that the entire written statement be included in the 
record, as well as this statement which reflects all of the trade as- 
sociations who are endorsing my statement today. 

Madam Chairman, we always appreciate the opportunity to work 
with you in pursuit of a more simple, a more certain, and a more 
efficient program for collecting royalties due to the Treasury and 
the states from Eederal oil and gas production. 

As each year passes, the need to reengineer the royalty collection 
system dramatically increases. With each new valuation rule- 
making effort, more and more complexity and more uncertainly is 
added to the royalty collection system. Instead of accepting a pro- 
ducer’s wellhead values, elaborate netback schemes are now being 
developed that will only result in more and more disputes. 

All of the agencies’ concerns and perceived problems over how to 
value royalty can be addressed by a royalty-in-kind program. As a 
consultant, who is regularly used by the MMS, stated in a report 
to the states, “The only way to be absolutely certain that a fair 
market value is received for royalty oil is to take the oil in-kind for 
sale.” We agree that royalty-in-kind accurately measures value by 
capturing all the value resulting from a transaction between a will- 
ing buyer and a willing seller at or near the lease. 

There has been much theorizing about the benefits and draw- 
backs of royalty-in-kind. It is time to bring royalty-in-kind to the 
drawing table, to build a successful royalty-in-kind program, and 
once and for all to bring to an end years and years of disputes and 
debate about royalty payments. 

This hearing today brings royalty-in-kind into focus as an excit- 
ing reengineering opportunity for both the government and the in- 
dustry. I would like to tell this committee what the industry is 
doing to bring royalty-in-kind into reality. Eirst, industry partici- 
pated in a series of workshops that the MMS held this year in re- 
sponse to their fiscal year 1997 appropriations which asked them 
to pursue additional royalty-in-kind pilot programs. 

At these workshops, the MMS heard a consistent message from 
the oil and gas industry — yes, we are without a doubt interested 
in designing a royalty-in-kind program which would result in a 
more simple and certain royalty collection system. 

During these workshops, the industry agreed to outline for the 
MMS and the states the goals, principles, and design elements of 



32 


a successful royalty-in-kind program. To initiate this progress, rep- 
resentatives from oil and gas associations from across the country 
formed a royalty-in-kind workgroup. I am glad to report to the com- 
mittee that this workgroup has developed an in-kind mission state- 
ment and a common set of principles for designing a successful roy- 
alty-in-kind program. 

The mission statement and principles I am about to describe are 
supported by the Independent Petroleum Association of America, 
the Domestic Petroleum Council, the California Independent Petro- 
leum Association, Colorado Oil and Gas Association, Independent 
Petroleum Association of Mountain States, Independent Petroleum 
Association of New Mexico, Louisiana Independent Association, 
Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association, National Oil Industries As- 
sociation, New Mexico Oil and Gas Association, Oklahoma Inde- 
pendent Petroleum Association, Petroleum Association of Wyoming, 
and the Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Association. 

This is a work in progress for all of us. Many critical imple- 
menting details need to be developed and discussed among these 
groups before moving beyond support for these principles. The 
agreed-to mission statement for a royalty-in-kind effort is to design 
a royalty-in-kind program that will eliminate valuation uncertainty 
and will be attractive to the Federal Government, the state govern- 
ments, and the private sector stakeholders, while recognizing the 
differences between oil and gas production. 

The six agreed-to royalty-in-kind principles are as follows: one, 
reduce the administrative and compliance burdens while providing 
the opportunity for Federal and state governments to maximize 
their revenues. This principle is intended to make sure that a roy- 
alty-in-kind program does not move forward unless it is a win-win 
for the Federal Government, state governments, and the producers. 

Two, require transactions to be at or near the lease as required 
by the lease obligations. Three, provide that when the government 
takes in-kind it must take all royalty production for a time certain. 
Four, require use of private marketing expertise to streamline gov- 
ernment operations. 

We have heard some comments earlier today that expressed con- 
cern, with which we agree, that this plan might require the govern- 
ment to get into the Wsiness. That is not the case at all. Just as 
the Federal Government can build buildings without becoming a 
building contractor and just as the Federal Government can con- 
struct highways without becoming a highway constructor and get- 
ting into that business, so can the Federal Government market 
their oil and gas business without getting into that business. 

Five, provide the states with the opportunity to be involved in 
designing and implementing the program. And, finally, six, to make 
sure that royalty-in-kind programs are broadly available for public 
purpose. As I just stated, there are a number of design issues that 
need to be worked out to determine the success of the royalty-in- 
kind program. We believe that issues such as transportation, ag- 
gregation processing, and other matters need to be resolved and 
look forward to working on that in the future. 

This is the time when we need to make certain that we can work 
together as a cooperative effort. We are concerned with the manner 
in which the MMS has qualified revenue losses in its gas in-kind 



33 


experiment. We think those mislead people into believing that a 
successful in-kind program cannot be implemented. 

And, second, and most importantly, we want to make sure — is 
the concern that a royalty-in-kind program be revenue neutral. Let 
us not forget that the real value of a royalty-in-kind program is to 
save the tremendous administrative costs that are currently being 
incurred by the Federal Government, the states, and the indus- 
tries. 

Before the MMS moves forward with a royalty-in-kind program, 
we need to make sure that a royalty-in-kind program can adhere 
to the six principles that I discussed above. Thank you very much. 
Madam Chairman. 

[Statement of Mr. Nichols may be found at end of hearing.] 

[List may be found at end of hearing.] 

Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you, Mr. Nichols. Mr. Hagemeyer, would you 
please give 

STATEMENT OF FRED HAGEMEYER, COORDINATING 
MANAGER, ROYALTY AFFAIRS, MARATHON OIL COMPANY 

Mr. Hagemeyer. Sure. I would be happy to. Thank you. Madam 
Chairman, members of the committee. I am Fred Hagemeyer and 
I am pleased to be here this afternoon representing Marathon Oil 
Company. There are several oil and gas associations that have en- 
dorsed my written comments, and I would like to introduce those 
into the record if I may. 

Marathon is a fully integrated oil and gas company involved in 
worldwide exploration, production, transportation, and marketing 
of crude oil and natural gas. Marathon holds leases both onshore 
and offshore. In 1996, Marathon paid royalties of over $84 million 
for oil and natural gas produced from Federal and Indian lands. In 
addition to the royalty paid in cash, the Minerals Management 
Service took crude oil valued at over $9 million in-kind through the 
small refiner royalty-in-kind program. 

We are here today to discuss royalty-in-kind as an alternative 
method for satisfying the royalty obligations of producers with Fed- 
eral oil and gas leases. Public workshops were held this spring to 
discuss and review possible options for a major royalty-in-kind pro- 
gram. Marathon actively participated in these sessions and wel- 
comed the opportunity to candidly discuss critical features of a 
workable R-I-K program. 

At Marathon, we have learned that reengineering an entrenched 
process is not easy. But if all stakeholders are engaged in the proc- 
ess and it is done properly, the results can be significant. Many 
times the benefits are much greater than anticipated because it is 
difficult to identify all the indirect benefits. As part of the MMS re- 
engineering effort. Marathon believes that a R-I-K program can be 
created which will fundamentally add value to the MMS royalty 
process. 

Royalty-in-kind is a concept whose time has come. The key is 
turning this opportunity into reality. By taking its royalty oil or 
gas in-kind, the MMS has the opportunity to aggregate volumes, 
determine the most favorable sales locations, arrange transpor- 
tation, and negotiate the terms and conditions of the sale of its roy- 
alty production. 



34 


Participation in these activities can result in optimized value if 
the MMS manages the risks and costs associated with the mar- 
keting function. Expertise of a competitive private marketer would 
allow the MMS to participate in these activities in the most effi- 
cient manner possible and thus achieve the greatest possible rev- 
enue benefits. The administrative burdens of both the MMS and 
the Federal lessees, especially the audit and litigation costs, would 
be reduced significantly or even eliminated. 

As Larry Nichols mentioned, a multi-association task force has 
been recently formed to develop a workable Federal royalty-in-kind 
program. Marathon is an active participant in this task force. Mar- 
athon would welcome and does welcome the certainty of knowing 
its royalty obligation was fulfilled once the royalty barrels were de- 
livered to the MMS. 

And Marathon recognizes that expertise in all segments of the oil 
and gas business will be necessary to develop a Federal royalty-in- 
kind program that is both viable and workable. It seems that the 
Subcommittee can benefit tremendously from the efforts of this 
task force. This process is not easy, but we feel it is vitally impor- 
tant in developing a successful program. 

An important step in this process is to look at examples of exist- 
ing R-I-K programs — the Texas GLO program, which you heard 
about earlier, takes all of its royalty all in-kind from the Marathon- 
operated Yates field, one of the largest onshore oil fields in the 
United States. Overall, Marathon’s experience with the Texas roy- 
alty-in-kind programs has been positive. 

One of the lessons that we have learned from the Texas R-I-K 
program is that any new comprehensive program is going to experi- 
ence startup problems. During the first year of the Texas pro- 
grams, there were problems concerning which party was respon- 
sible for gathering costs, the arrangement and verification of trans- 
portation, and the proper allocation of production. 

However, over time, producers, the purchasers, and the state 
have been able to work through these problems. And for this rea- 
son the MMS must be very careful if it chooses to implement and 
evaluate any royalty-in-kind pilot program. In fact. Marathon be- 
lieves it may be more prudent to expend this effort in developing 
a permanent R-I-K program that could be phased in over time. 

Marathon is concerned at the impact of a royalty-in-kind pro- 
gram on the Federal and state treasuries, that it be analyzed prop- 
erly. API recently completed an assessment of the MMS review of 
the 1995 Royalty Gas Marketing Pilot Program. Attached to my 
testimony is the API report which raises a number of issues for the 
underlying validity of the revenue assumptions and the cost anal- 
ysis of the pilot. The concerns raised by API should be addressed. 

In summary, I would like to say that Marathon believes the time 
has come for the Federal Government and the oil and gas industry 
to seriously consider royalty-in-kind as the best long-term solution 
to satisfying the Federal lessees’ royalty obligation. A properly de- 
veloped R-I-K program could streamline the royalty process for the 
Federal and the state governments and the oil and gas industry. 

Working together, we can minimize many of the startup prob- 
lems which may occur and shorten the learning curve for both the 
Federal Government and the lessees. A royalty-in-kind program 



35 


can be a win-win proposition for all the parties involved. Thank 
you very much. 

[Prepared statement of Mr. Hagemeyer may be found at end of 
hearing.] 

[List may be found at end of hearing.] 

Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you very much. The vote that is being held 
now is a vote to adjourn, and I think I will just let them decide 
that without me so that we can get this hearing moving along. Ms. 
Hamm, would you please give us your testimony now? 

STATEMENT OF SUE ANN HAMM, VICE PRESIDENT, OIL MAR- 
KETING/SALES, CONTINENTAL RESOURCES, INCORPORATED 

Ms. Hamm. Thank you. Madam Chairman. I am Sue Hamm, and 
I am Vice President of Crude Oil Marketing for Continental Re- 
sources. And I am here on behalf of Continental, IPAA, OIPA, and 
the RMOGA, Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Association, and they 
are all endorsing my written 

Mrs. CuBiN. Excuse me. Could I get you to pull the microphone 
a little closer? 

Ms. Hamm. Oh, I am sorry. 

Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you. 

Ms. Hamm. And I would like to submit that for the record. And 
Continental Resources is a small, privately held independent pro- 
ducer who has Federal onshore production. And I am not going to 
go into everything I have written to brag a little bit about Conti- 
nental, but we are a growing company, and I am very proud of 
them. 

Two years ago, I began the crude oil marketing department for 
Continental. And I did this after looking at our wellhead contracts. 
Traditionally, we sold at the wellhead. And with change in trans- 
portation and unbundling and opportunities to transport on pipe- 
lines, I saw that there were opportunities. 

And so I looked at — checked out all of the alternatives and oppor- 
tunities, and I found that our company is able to realize a higher 
average price per barrel by taking our oil to the end-user to make 
all the transportation arrangements, exchanges, and final sales. 
And we have even built our own gathering systems where that 
proved economical for us to lower our transportation costs. 

We tried to create as many alternatives as possible. The more 
buyers there are, the higher the price is we find. And we have en- 
countered a great deal more risk and costs than we had antici- 
pated, but we have been able to work these out just by working 
through them and with the advice. We looked to other industry ex- 
perts. In fact, we even hired a consultant for a year and paid him 
five cents a barrel to guide us through this. 

And even at the five cents a barrel charge, we found a significant 
increase over our net revenue from the wellhead price. And we con- 
tinued to sell some at the wellhead so we did know what that well- 
head price was, and we continued to negotiate very toughly for a 
wellhead price. But even still we had a significant increase by tak- 
ing on the responsibilities to market downstream. 

And as we became more sophisticated in our marketing efforts, 
we began to take our oil and gas from outside interests. And this 
is a little bit like the MMS would be encountering because they are 



36 


not operating the wells in which they have their interests, and they 
are not getting all the information as timely as an operator does. 

But we have still found that in most instances we can improve 
our price by taking an in-kind and taking it downstream. And to 
determine whether it is economical, again, we look to a number of 
factors — transportation costs, prices downstream, prices the pur- 
chasers will offer at the wellhead, and the price that the operator 
is receiving because we can’t continue to sell through the operator. 

But one factor we do not even consider is what price is the oper- 
ator receiving through his contract. We just look at what he is pay- 
ing us. We do not consider audits a value-enhancing measure or it 
is not our job. And after we consider all the factors, we choose the 
method which we will receive the highest price. As I said before, 
this continues to be marketing downstream for the most part ex- 
cept for de minimus volumes. 

And we have a fairly significant volume for a small company. In 
fact, it is about 7 percent of MMS’s royalty volume. We have 15,000 
barrels of oil a day, and we produce 75,000 Mcf of gas a day. And 
this is 3 percent of MMS’s royalty gas. And this is a large amount 
as far as the MMS’s volume, I believe, that we are able to handle 
with two employees. And of our volumes, we have 200 equivalent 
barrels which are Federal royalty barrels. And this is a negligible 
amount for us. 

But this is a small amount when you consider MMS’s royalty vol- 
ume where I have heard that they say aggregating volume does not 
enhance the value. Well, it sure did for us even with our small 
amount. The more oil we produce and we include in our package, 
the higher our prices become. The refiners are seeking us out. They 
want to go directly to the producers to ensure their oil. Oil is still 
a valuable product. 

And the present situation between the MMS and the oil and gas 
industry has become one of the most adversarial relationships of 
any agency. And even though we have a negligible amount of Fed- 
eral royalty barrels, it looks like we don’t have a dog in this fight, 
I have heard you say. 

But we are taking a broader view as you have recommended, and 
we are going to stay involved in this issue because we are in the 
oil and gas industry to stay. And anything that affects us — that af- 
fects the industry affects us. And we believe that the proposed 
rules will negatively affect the industry, and, in fact, we oppose 
them. And I really wanted to get into the Canadian effort, but 
I 

Mrs. CuBiN. Go ahead. 

Ms. Hamm. I went to Canada and met with Don Olineck, the Di- 
rector of the Alberta Energy, and went through quite a few of his 
programs, and he was very accommodating. He showed me all of 
his flow charts. He showed me all of his forms. And I discussed this 
thoroughly with him, and he believes that this could be transferred 
to the MMS’s properties. 

And he has offered all of his help in setting up the program, set- 
ting up the computer programs, advising. He will do anything he 
can to help us transfer his program to our situation, and he be- 
lieves it will help. Alberta Energy believes that they are increasing 
their value by taking in-kind and selling it downstream. 



37 


And the goals for their R-I-K I believe meet MMS’s goals. They 
are simple and certain; simple in the fact that a minimum number 
of employees are required to run the program. Alberta Energy for 
their 146,000 barrels of oil a day have 33 employees marketing the 
oil. MMS has 204,000 barrels of oil a day — a little bit more than 
Alberta — and they have 1,800 employees a day. Gas production is 
roughly equivalent between the two companies. Alberta only has 
232 total employees for all. 

What is the reason? It is not the MMS employees that are not 
competent. They are very competent people. They are high stand- 
ards, high quality. It is the system they are having to work with. 
That is why it takes so many. This audit — receive an audit is not 
a workable situation. 

And to follow the Alberta program, the MMS would have to take 
its production at the wellhead, and the operator would deliver to 
the MMS’s designated representative the royalty volume. And the 
operator would continue to deliver to his own purchaser his vol- 
ume. 

The only difference from the operator’s current methods would be 
to carve out the royalty share of volume, as opposed to the royalty 
share of value. And by carving out just the royalty share of volume, 
this would dramatically reduce the number of reporting require- 
ments for the operator and for the MMS. Thus, the decrease in 
number of employees. 

And just to look at our situation, two employees for 15,000 bar- 
rels of oil a day; 1,800 employees for 204,000 barrels of oil a day. 
Something is happening there. My husband and I own the com- 
pany. I have a vital interest in increasing our revenue. I do not 
have a stake in keeping a job in crude oil marketing. R-I-K works. 
I recommend it for the MMS. I will help any way I can. There are 
industry experts out here. We are all good at this. 

The MMS can be good at this. They have to get in the program. 
They have to get in the market. Just watching it doesn’t help. You 
have to get in it and negotiate. And by hiring a representative and 
with transparent contracts, the MMS will know and be assured 
they are receiving market value. Thank you. 

[Statement of Ms. Hamm may be found at end of hearing.] 

[List may be found at end of hearing.] 

[Petroleum Marketing Act may be found at end of hearing.] 

Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you very much. Mr. Segner. 

STATEMENT OF EDMUND SEGNER, III, EXECUTIVE VICE 

PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OF STAFF, ENRON CORPORATION 

Mr. Segner. I am Ed Segner, Executive Vice President of Enron, 
a diversified energy company headquartered in Houston. As a 
major participant in the upstream, midstream, and downstream do- 
mestic energy markets, Enron obviously has a direct interest in the 
proposed R-I-K program, both as a marketer, in which we are one 
of the very largest in the country, and as a producer. 

Recent changes in the natural gas industry, including the de- 
regulation of wellhead prices and the demise of pipelines as the pri- 
mary purchasers of natural gas, directly affect the current debate 
over royalty valuation. These changes have led to a number of con- 
troversies between industry and government. The Department of 



38 


Interior has been questioning the principle that royalties are to be 
determined at or near the lease, as has been the historical practice 
now for about 70 years. 

Rather, the Department is apparently considering that royalty 
values be determined far downstream of the lease after the value 
has been enhanced by a variety of services performed in the mid- 
stream and downstream markets. This position, of course, fails to 
recognize that participants in those markets make significant cap- 
ital expenditures and undertake a variety of risks not associated 
with the risks that are undertaken by oil and gas lessees. 

Such a position, obviously, is fundamentally at odds with the way 
in which natural gas is marketed today. Natural gas producers no 
longer dedicate the production from specific properties to specific 
sales contracts. Most production today is sold under contracts that 
specify no source of supply but rather require that specified vol- 
umes be delivered to designated delivery points. 

Producers can and do supply gas to such delivery points from 
various sources of supply, including their own production, or in the 
event of a shortfall in order to meet a firm delivery commitment, 
by purchases from other producers or marketers. Even when a pro- 
ducer’s own production is used, it may come from a number of 
properties upstream from the point of delivery. 

Similarly, midstream producers do not supply their downstream 
customers with gas obtained under specific purchases from identifi- 
able producers. Rather, production is aggregated at pooling points 
where it is bought and sold or transported to all other points all 
in the marketer’s efforts to maximize its profits by seeking the best 
market available. 

Gas has become like grain or pork bellies, a fungible commodity. 
Attempting to value gas on the basis of downstream transaction 
would be like determining the value of a particular farmer’s corn 
crop, by looking at the prices in the grocery store. 

We believe that a properly designed royalty-in-kind program can 
both resolve many of the current controversies arising out of these 
changes, while providing many advantages to the government re- 
sulting in a win-win situation. 

In a well-designed royalty-in-kind program, the Federal Govern- 
ment would use the expertise of sophisticated marketers to access 
markets nationally and provide timely and accurate information. 
Using the services of marketers, the government could realize in- 
creased revenues through, one, aggregation of its substantial vol- 
umes; two, the administrative savings of simplified auditing; and, 
three, the absence of disputes. 

Our Enron Oil Canada unit produces oil that is subject to Alber- 
ta’s royalty-in-kind program. Our experience under that program 
has also been extremely positive. Valuation disputes under the pro- 
gram are virtually nonexistent. 

Further, the program is simple to administer from both a 
logistical and accounting standpoint. A single accountant in our 
company spends less than 4 hours a month filing the required re- 
ports. In addition, the province bears its proportionate share of 
downstream costs like any other interest owner, thus providing eq- 
uitable treatment to the lessees. 



39 


In April 1995, after an exhaustive joint government and industry 
study, the Minister of Energy advised that a cash based royalty 
system such as that as used in the U.S. could not be implemented 
because it would result in a financial loss to the province and cre- 
ate an administrative burden for both industry and government. 

In addition, we have also recently begun to participate in the 
Texas program. We also are very satisfied with that program. It 
has been a positive experience. And, in fact, with respect to our op- 
erations, it operates so unobtrusively that I think that speaks vol- 
umes for the quality of the program. 

It is for these reasons that a royalty-in-kind program is so impor- 
tant. Competitive bidding for the government’s share of production 
would simply and fairly establish its value, while providing the 
best means available to ensure that the government receives full 
value for oil and gas production from Federal lands. 

It offers the government the ability to realize the maximum 
value for its share of production, while at the same time stream- 
lining its own operations. We thank you very much for the oppor- 
tunity to appear before this Subcommittee today, and at the same 
time, we assure you that we offer our assistance in developing a 
successful program any way we can. 

[Prepared statement of Mr. Segner may be found at end of hear- 
ing.] 

Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you very much. Mr. Thornberry, would you 
like to begin questioning? 

Mr. Thornberry. Thank you. Madam Chairman. I guess my 
number 1 question that I would like to address to each of you, be- 
cause some of you represent a number of companies and organiza- 
tions, is do you think the industry is serious about getting this 
done? Do you think a consensus can be built? And what is the pri- 
mary obstacle to getting it done? 

As I mentioned a few minutes ago, I have been down this road 
before. And while some in industry said they thought it was a good 
idea, it didn’t go very far. But I would like to get you alls’ view on 
whether it can be done, whether we can reach a consensus. Mr. 
Nichols, do you want to start? 

Mr. Nichols. Yes. I definitely think we can reach a consensus, 
and I would like to put this in some historical perspective. Earlier 
in the hearing today, we heard that because last year we had 
passed the Royalty Fairness Act, with the able leadership of this 
Committee, that now was an inappropriate time to go back in and 
reevaluate or do anything different. 

The Royalty Fairness Act dealt with procedures. There is nothing 
in the Royalty Fairness Act that dealt with valuation. Both this 
Committee and the industry and the MMS recognize that those 
valuation issues were out in front of us and were not touched at 
all by the Royalty Fairness Act. 

When we saw earlier this year the MMS proposal on oil valu- 
ation, which was based upon NYMEX, or despite some earlier 
statements I heard today, NYMEX is not where the oil and gas in- 
dustry trades amongst itself. We trade oil at the lease or near that, 
not at NYMEX. That is totally false. 

Our company sells a lot of oil, and it is not based on NYMEX 
prices. That is not what we have any hope of realizing. Sometimes 



40 


it is up, sometimes it is down, but that is not where we trade. That 
is where they trade in New York City. It is not where we trade in 
Wyoming or the Texas panhandle or wherever. 

When that was proposed with a complicated system to get it back 
to where we really do trade, and the MMS recognized that NYMEX 
was not where it was traded and was only using that as a starting 
place, we had used a fairly complicated and somewhat arbitrary 
within their own control system to get it back to the lease or at- 
tempt to get it back to the lease, many people in the industry 
looked at that and said, “Good grief. There has got to be an easier 
way.” 

Mr. Thornberry. So you think there is renewed focus on solving 
the problem? 

Mr. Nichols. The oil valuation program gave tremendous focus 
and tremendous impetus within the industry to please find a sim- 
pler way, and R-I-K particularly became the simpler way. 

Mr. Thornberry. What do you think is the biggest obstacle? 

Mr. Nichols. The inertia, that change is always difficult, work- 
ing out problems. In my testimony earlier, I listed the six prin- 
ciples that 14 trade associations have already in a relatively short 
period of time gone together and agreed upon. We need to work on 
the details of those, broaden the industry group to include every- 
one, but I believe that can be done. 

Mr. Thornberry. Thank you, sir. Mr. Hagemeyer? 

Mr. Hagemeyer. Yes. I also would agree that the industry has 
pulled together to focus on this particular issue for a variety of rea- 
sons, and we would be remiss in suggesting that it wasn’t because 
valuation perhaps was a catalyst. In the past, you would have 
maybe certain components in an integrated oil and gas company 
who would look at valuation regulations. And what you have with 
royalty -in-kind is probably a bigger picture. 

So it encompasses all aspects of the oil company, and this takes 
time for the oil companies to focus on this, and this is something 
through this association task force that I think has just recently 
started happening. If there was royalty-in-kind discussions in past 
timeframes, it never had this kind of discussion, which is all en- 
compassing, and a realization that you just don’t do it with little 
bits and pieces and parts. And if you are going to put something 
forward, it has got to be somewhat comprehensive. 

And so it really has energized, in my opinion, a lot of companies 
to really talk through the issues. And as Larry pointed out, there 
were six principles developed in a matter of a few weeks by this 
task force which kind of set a stage, and there was a lot of struc- 
tural elements under that that have to be sorted out and talked 
through. You know, there is a lot of very important issues that 
have been mentioned before in terms of voluntary, mandatory, the 
transportation issues, turning over title at what point, and how can 
that be clean. 

But the key is that it is kind of a reengineering focus. I mean, 
the purpose of this group right now has really been trying to look 
at it from a clean piece of paper, not being incumbered by other 
things, and saying if you had a very, very good royalty-in-kind pro- 
gram that tried to satisfy all aspects, how would it work? And I 



41 


really feel confident that over the next few weeks or months that 
that can come about. 

Mr. Thornberry. OK. Thank you. Ms. Hamm and Mr. Segner, 
I would like to get at least you alls’ opinion on what the biggest 
obstacle is. 

Mrs. Gubin. And don’t worry about the light. You can have as 
much time as you want, Mac. 

Ms. Hamm. The transportation issue and the mandatory versus 
voluntary appear to be the biggest obstacles that I have seen. And 
I believe they are workable, especially — we need from MMS what 
are their problems with transportation. What kind of comfort zone 
do they need in order to work in the marketplace on transpor- 
tation? If we knew what their fears were, then we could arrange 
the principles and issues and help with the rule. And then the 
mandatory versus voluntary we are going to, of course, have a con- 
sensus on that, and I believe in mandatory. 

Mr. Thornberry. OK. Thank you. Mr. Segner? 

Mr. Segner. I think the biggest issues are going to be in the 
marketing side from the standpoint of dealing with the de minimus 
volumes, finding mechanisms to make sure that a large enough 
percentage of volumes is, in fact, being served under this program. 
Obviously, 100 percent would be best in our view because we don’t 
want to see a situation where you end up with a lot of administra- 
tive costs left over. So we want to be sure that we get the whole 
thing. 

I would say from the marketing standpoint I think clearly there 
is huge competition now in marketing, as we all know, and I think 
that having a producer — in essence, the Federal Government, be as 
large as it is — that is a sizable volume, its portfolio well spread out. 
I think it will be very well-received by the marketing community, 
and I think it will be very competitively bid and structured. 

Mr. Thornberry. Gives us lots of buying power when you have 
that much oil to sell? 

Mr. Segner. Yes. 

Mr. Thornberry. Let me ask each of you, have any of you had 
experience with the MMS pilot program on gas? 

Mr. Nichols. We participated in a very minor way in the pilot 
program offshore. 

Mr. Thornberry. OK. Do you have comments about that pro- 
gram, ways that it can be improved, why we should or should not 
learn particular lessons from it based on your experience? And if 
you don’t have enough, that is fine. I just wondered. 

Mr. Nichols. Yes. Our experience with it was extremely small 
as an independent. I know there are a variety of design flaws in 
the way it was implemented, that both we and the MMS learned 
from that that could be corrected in a royalty-in-kind program. We 
see nothing in the comments that I have read about that cannot 
be easily corrected. 

Mr. Thornberry. OK. Madam Chairman, one other thing. Mr. 
Nichols, since your company was specific mentioned in some earlier 
testimony, I thought you might want to have the opportunity to re- 
spond to the concern that some people have that someway a roy- 
alty-in-kind will prevent or you will lose arm’s length transactions, 
and there will be some sort of sweetheart deal and this, and the 



42 


taxpayers are going to get the short end of the stick. If you would 
like to respond, I certainly want to give you a chance to since your 
company was specifically mentioned. 

Mr. Nichols. Well, I must admit I was somewhat amused and 
perhaps flattered to think that our company would be large enough 
to successfully market Federal royalty oil. Earlier this year, we 
were marketing a grand total of about 300 barrels a day, and that 
feeble effort proved to be so small that we abandoned it on April 
1. So I don’t think we have the capacity to be a marketer. That is 
not what we are. We are a pure independent producer. 

There is no doubt in our mind that a successful program could 
be implemented. The reason the industry is in favor of a royalty- 
in-kind program is to reduce cost. The government is entitled to the 
royalty oil that it gets. There is no one who argues that point — and 
the royalty gas. You can take that and aggregate that together and 
have a win-win situation where the government, because it can ag- 
gregate that oil and gas, can realize more revenue. 

I know from my own company’s experience, we did an acquisition 
at the end of last year that gave us more oil to market because we 
own more oil in west Texas and southeastern Oklahoma. Just be- 
cause of that small aggregation relative to us, we are able to real- 
ize a higher price for that oil. 

The Federal Government could realize an even higher price be- 
cause they have much, much larger volumes than we do. So you 
have the ability to realize more revenue on one side, and the ability 
to save costs, both for the industry and the MMS, on the other side. 
It looks like a win-win. 

Mr. Thornberry. Thank you. Madam Chairman, I appreciate 
your indulgence. Because of the lateness of the hour, I won’t con- 
tinue. I do have some questions I would like to submit for the 
record, and hopefully these witnesses could provide us some addi- 
tional insights if that is all right. 

Mrs. CuBiN. And we also would ask unanimous consent for the 
Minority to enter any questions in writing that they would like. 
Mr. Dooley? 

Mr. Dooley. Thank you. Madam Chairman, and I apologize for 
having a conflict and not being able to hear the entire panel. I 
guess my interest here is in terms if you did go to the royalty-in- 
kind process, should it be structured in a way that perhaps we just 
let the states administer it. I mean, we have Texas who already 
has their program in place. You know, why should the Federal 
Government be involved? Why don’t we just let the State of Texas 
do it? Anyone that wanted — I guess, Mr. Hagemeyer, you 

Mr. Hagemeyer. I will maybe just try to address that a little. I 
guess you are asking a question that probably we haven’t ourselves 
even had time to get into and discuss, and I think that is one of 
the issues on the task force list to talk through; not that we have 
necessarily the solution, but maybe we can talk through the pros 
and cons. 

You know, I think one thing that fundamentally we would see is 
that, you know, the Federal Government would have the right of 
the oil, the title to it when turning it over at the lease. And I guess 
the key there would be what would be the most efficient way? 



43 


That is what we all would want to see. So if the states could do 
it more efficiently than the Federal Government through a private 
agency, then that is something to consider. I guess the options are 
still open in reviewing that, and it is something that probably 
when you talk it through, many of the states (Texas has quite a 
bit of an experience, and Wyoming is now looking at it in various 
stages), have a different scope of experience level. 

So if you were to move into some program, you may only have 
a few states who have enough experience to do very much. But I 
guess the jury is still out. 

Mr. Dooley. Well, that is kind of the way that I am looking at 
this is that, you know, we have some states that are at different 
levels of I guess competency just by experience by and large. But 
I guess I question, you know, it might be something that it might 
be best administered on state by state and basically be a state 
choice, whether or not to go down that path of royalty-in-kind. 

If you went down that track though, you know, I question wheth- 
er or not we ought to have MMS in a position where they are re- 
quired to put together the administrative infrastructure to admin- 
ister a payment-in-kind program in one state that might have the 
capability to do it themselves. 

And maybe we would be better off letting them do that, and 
those states that didn’t choose to go into royalty-in-kind that we 
would maintain something, maybe even what is proposed hopefully 
with some modifications. 

Ms. Hamm. The industry workgroup has agreed that it would like 
for the states to have the option to take their royalty-in-kind so I 
think that answers your question to a degree. States which show 
an interest we want to allow it to have the right to take their oil 
in-kind. 

Mr. Dooley. And that would just be the state’s share of the roy- 
alty-in-kind? 

Ms. Hamm. That is as far as we have gotten. We haven’t ad- 
dressed taking the Federal royalty. We would like for the states to 
have the option to take the Federal royalty too, to have the right 
to bid for it. And we haven’t written that down as a principle 
agreed upon that has been discussed to let the states take the Fed- 
eral royalty. But the only thing which has been agreed upon is the 
states to take their own share. 

Mr. Dooley. I had a chance to read some of your testimony, and 
you visited Alberta and viewed theirs. How did they deal with — 
and I think Mr. Segner made the comment, you know, the very, 
very de minimus producer in some instances — ^you get to some level 
that is not cost effective, you know, to put I guess in place an in- 
kind type of program. Does Alberta have similar problems, and 
how are they addressing that? 

Ms. Hamm. My understanding is that they don’t take that which 
they are not able to administratively costwise justify, and there are 
some instances where they take the operator’s volume totally also 
and market it for them because the operator believes that Alberta 
Energy has more expertise than they do. 

But I believe they have been at it so long that this was not all 
thrown at them at one time. This has been as a well develops, as 
wells are drilled, they have gotten to make the selection. And then 



44 


once they do have it in place, as wells decline, then it is easier to 
keep the R-I-K in place. Where for us, we will have to make the 
election with wells which are already declined whether to take it 
in-kind of not, so it would be a little bit different deciding right off 
to take everything. 

Mr. Dooley. Does anyone else have a comment on any of those 
questions? All right. Thank you. 

Mrs. CuBiN. I want to ask you, Mr. Nichols and Mr. Hagemeyer, 
anyone who wants to answer, a little bit more about the multi-asso- 
ciation task force. That is the same industry working group that 
you were referring to, Ms. Hamm? It is all the same group? OK. 
And, Mr. Nichols, you are here representing those groups that are 
in working on the task force. Is that correct? 

Mr. Nichols. Yes. 

Mrs. Gubin. And that is mostly independents. Is that correct? 

Mr. Nichols. Yes, of all sizes. There are very large independents 
and very small independents, but they are all included in that 
group. 

Mrs. Gubin. I am not going to ask a lot of questions now, but, 
again, if you would indulge us and allow us to send some written 
questions to you, I would appreciate that. But I do want to say one 
thing. I know Mr. Thornberry is anxious to get this moving and 
anxious to have a bill, and I support him in that. 

And we would appreciate it, if you don’t mind my speaking on 
your behalf, if the MMS and the states and your task force and the 
majors could come together with some suggestions because I think 
we will have better legislation if everyone can work on that than 
if we just draft something just to get the issue moving. That is 
what we would like and what we would appreciate is just some 
movement on this. 

So I don’t really have any other questions. I will just leave you 
with that request, that you work together as much as you can in 
a timely fashion so it makes it a little easier for Mac and for me. 
Mr. Nichols? 

Mr. Nichols. Yes. Madam Ghairman, if I might add, included in 
that group and included in those associations are major integrated 
companies, that there really is no schism in the industry based on 
size or character in facing this issue. 

There are individual companies and individuals that are still 
studying and are not yet committed to it. But I think that con- 
sensus is rapidly forming, and it will be one that is from the larg- 
est integrated down to the smallest mom and pop. You know, we 
all share the common desire of a more simple and a more certain 
royalty collection system. 

Mrs. Gubin. And I do encourage you to work with the states as 
we go along that I know we can have a better bill by doing it that 
way. Thank you all very much for your testimony today. Ms. 
Quarterman, I certainly appreciate your sitting through all of these 
hours of testimony and voting and whatnot. I know it has been a 
long day for you, and we do appreciate your hanging in there with 
us. So if you would kindly give us your wisdom, we would be happy 
to hear it. 



45 


STATEMENT OF CYNTHIA QUARTERMAN, DIRECTOR, 
MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE 

Ms. Quarterman. My pleasure. Madam Chairman and members 
of the Subcommittee, I appreciate the opportunity to appear today 
to present testimony on behalf of the Minerals Management Serv- 
ice in our ongoing examination of the feasibility of taking oil and 
gas royalties in-kind. 

I would like to say that we are very excited about the notion of 
taking R-I-K. We have been studying this issue and considering op- 
portunities that in-kind royalties may offer the government, indus- 
try, and, most importantly, the American taxpayer. 

Over the past several years, MMS has spent a considerable 
amount of time studying the opportunity to take royalty-in-kind. It 
has been a major learning process for us. We have, as you know, 
conducted an analyzed R-I-K pilot that was implemented during 
1995. We have convened six public workshops around the country 
relating to R-I-K. 

We have surveyed energy marketers that we would not ordi- 
narily have an opportunity to work with. And we have interviewed 
other government agencies who have experience in R-I-K, including 
our international sister nations going over to Alberta, Canada, and 
speaking with them as well. 

In short, I believe that we have developed a significant body of 
knowledge and expertise concerning the potential for applying in- 
kind programs to Federal leases. I ask that my prepared testimony 
be admitted to the record, and I will summarize for you here what 
is in that testimony. 

By way of background, the energy industry has changed dramati- 
cally over the past 10 years. As some of the folks who have been 
here today have already testified, the once dominant wellhead sale 
has been replaced by more frequent downstream sales by affiliated 
energy marketers and is particularly true in the natural gas mar- 
ket. 

A series of downstream activities frequently occur before a first 
sale is ever made. For natural gas, first sales may not occur until 
the burner tip in a residential consumer’s home. Increased down- 
stream activity has complicated royalty valuation to a large extent 
which has fostered disputes between the Minerals Management 
Service and the producers. 

Administrative appeals and litigation have proliferated as a re- 
sult. And the energy industry and MMS have struggled over the 
past several years to resolve these many issues. Along with clearer 
valuation regulations, R-I-K programs may offer a solution to avoid 
such disputes. 

In what we see as a best case royalty-in-kind scenario, a number 
of things we think would be possible. First, we think that valuation 
disputes could be eliminated or at least reduced, that auditing 
could be reduced to a simple volume reconciliation that would be 
completed quite quickly, that there would be less need for royalty 
reporting and verification, which would accrue to administrative 
savings on behalf of both the government and industry. 

We also believe that there is a potential to enhance Federal reve- 
nues by aggregating volumes and marketing. The extent of such 



46 


benefits requires examination and analysis, and that is what we 
are currently in the process of doing. 

As this Subcommittee will remember, back in 1995 we did imple- 
ment a gas marketing pilot that was pursuant to Vice President 
Gore’s Reinvention of Government Initiative. MMS sold at that 
time by competitive bid at the lease approximately 45.6 billion 
cubic feet of gas from 14 lessees covering 79 leases in the Gulf of 
Mexico. 

We saw a royalty loss of nine cents per MMBTU which over- 
whelmed a small administrative savings. I came before this Com- 
mittee shortly thereafter about a year ago to present the results of 
that pilot. Despite what some might think as disheartening results 
of the pilot, we continued to pursue the notion of the Federal Gov- 
ernment taking its royalty-in-kind. 

And we have learned a substantial amount from that pilot. We 
learned that the voluntary nature of the pilot reduced our ability 
to aggregate and enhance volumes, that some of the downstream 
value benefits that are possible were not seen because of the way 
the gas was sold, and, finally, that the administrative relief was ex- 
tremely limited because we continued to audit companies who had 
taken the gas in-kind. 

The R-I-K study that we are currently doing has two primary ob- 
jectives, and the real objective is to ensure that any R-I-K program 
is in the best interests of the United States and its taxpayers, 
meaning that we are looking for a program that would offer poten- 
tial revenue neutrality or enhancement for the Treasury, and that 
would provide extensive administrative savings to both the Federal 
Government and the oil and gas industry. 

I will tell you now that we have some preliminary findings, but 
they are only preliminary at this point. Our examination of R-I-K 
is ongoing. A major finding is that under favorable circumstances 
we believe that R-I-K programs could be workable, revenue neu- 
tral, or hopefully revenue positive, and administratively more effi- 
cient for both MMS and the industry. 

The favorable circumstances that we see to be necessary would 
include an opportunity for us to participate in downstream mar- 
keting in sales which could enhance revenues, that would allow us 
to aggregate volumes, which we think could assure supply and 
could increase our market leverage, and, finally, a program that 
would provide administrative relief to both the Federal Govern- 
ment and to industry. 

R-I-K programs would have reduced chance of success we think 
under some unfavorable circumstances, and the unfavorable cir- 
cumstances that we have in mind are continuation of our auditing, 
producer’s share of production. It would include any statutory lan- 
guage which would give the government less leverage in creating 
a workable R-I-K solution. 

And another unfavorable circumstance would be if we were to try 
to put in place a R-I-K program for production that is scattered in 
many different basins with a decreasing potential for aggregation 
and would require an increasing amount of learning on our part. 

Our challenge in the future will be to see if we can identify ap- 
propriate R-I-K programs that meet the favorable conditions that 
I have set forth, to develop a specific R-I-K program or programs 



47 


for these conditions, and to conduct those programs and economic 
analyses associated with them. 

In conclusion, as I mentioned before, we are enthused about the 
prospects for developing a R-I-K program or programs that could 
lead to success. And I agree with many of the witnesses before me 
by saying that success is defined as a program that is a win-win- 
win for all the parties that are involved. 

However, because there are some inherent risks in any R-I-K 
program, we want to caution you not to move too quickly in trying 
to reach a legislative solution. We need to be able to conduct more 
detailed testing and analysis of any programs before there is broad 
application. If there is anything that the Subcommittee heard 
today, I think it would be the importance of flexibility in any sort 
of R-I-K program. 

We caution that we not prematurely provide any legislative as- 
sistance that would seek to make a one-size-fits-all solution for R- 
I-K implementation in the future. We think success really relies on 
the ability to be flexible because the market has changed rapidly 
and quite a bit and will continue to change, we think, and we need 
to be able to change with the market. 

Legislative initiatives may lock us into a R-I-K program that 
later turns out to be counter to the market and to the public inter- 
est. If we find that we need legislation after we have tested some 
pilots, we will be back to you and ask you for the appropriate legis- 
lative changes. 

Considering the magnitude of Federal royalties, this issue I be- 
lieve is too important for us to rush to judgment and to do it 
wrong. We are willing and excited about the prospects of working 
with the states and with industry to develop and test R-I-K pro- 
grams that are amenable to all parties. 

Madam Chairman, that concludes my prepared remarks with re- 
spect to R-I-K. I did want to make one note unrelated to R-I-K be- 
fore I offer myself up to questions, and that is having sat here this 
afternoon, I noticed that there was one piece of information that 
seems to not be accurately communicated to the Committee. And 
I want to make sure that you were aware and that is with respect 
to our oil valuation rule. 

There were some questions earlier and statements about the 
MMS attempting to move the point of valuation away from the 
wellhead, and that independents would not necessarily receive fair 
market price and would not be able to pay royalties according to 
that. That has been a concern of mine as well. 

And I think if you were to go and read the rule, and I offer you 
up my staff, who is more expert than I am on this, to come and 
sit with members of the Subcommittee to talk and walk you 
through the rule, you will see that the discussion of NYMEX and 
ANS prices is a second step in the rule. 

The first benchmark in the rule would permit a producer to pay 
on gross proceeds. If he has a contract for a sale at the lease, that 
is the first benchmark — the first place that we go forward. We are 
not interested in putting independents out of business here. So that 
is the first step. 

And, again, as to NYMEX prices or ANS prices, I remind every- 
one that it is a proposed rule. That means that we are open to any 



48 


other means of valuation that may be out there or other indexes 
that may be more appropriate. With that, thank you. 

[Prepared statement of Ms. Quarterman may be found at end of 
hearing.] 

Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you very much. I think one thing we can 
agree on — everyone is that the current is sort of a disaster. It is 
too expensive and it is too complicated, and, obviously, MMS hav- 
ing proposed a rulemakes a public pronouncement that we need 
change. You stated, Ms. Quarterman, that you have a huge volume 
of information from six workshops, and you have surveyed market- 
ers, and you just have a vast amount of information on R-I-K. Do 
you need to gather more information, or do you have the informa- 
tion and you just need to analyze it? 

Ms. Quarterman. We are in the process of analyzing the infor- 
mation. We had a team from our policy shop perform the work- 
shops and gather the information. They are in the process of draft- 
ing a final report which they will present to me shortly with a 
number of recommendations, I imagine. 

Mrs. CuBiN. What would be an ideal situation for me is for MMS 
and industry and the states to be working together and get moving 
on this. It seems like it has been dragging to me. And I would real- 
ly prefer a proposal to come from the work that all of you have 
done rather than legislation as you requested. Sometimes it seems 
though that we need legislation to get the ball rolling. So I would 
ask all of you to go ahead and get working on that, and let us make 
some progress and then the need won’t sit up here. Mr. Dooley? 

Mr. Dooley. Yes. Thank you. Madam Chairman, and thank you, 
Ms. Quarterman, for your really substantive testimony. It really 
was helpful in trying to come to grips on how we should move for- 
ward. 

I guess what I would like to spend, you know, some time with 
though is on the rulemaking because maybe I have some misin- 
formation. But from what I am hearing from a lot of my producers 
in California is that they are at least under the impression, unless 
there has been a modification to the rule that was proposed I guess 
on January 24, that a lot of their production was going to be priced 
based on an ANS benchmark or with a function of some adjust- 
ments based on sulphur content and a couple other issues. Now, is 
that incorrect? 

Ms. Quarterman. Well, first, there has been a modification to 
the rule since January when it was first published. We published 
a supplemental rulemaking less than 30 days ago. I don’t know 
what specific producers you are referring to, but the modification 
would we think make the first provision of the rule, the gross pro- 
ceeds provision, apply to many of the independents. 

Mr. Dooley. And how would that differ now from the status 
quo? 

Ms. Quarterman. That is the status quo. 

Mr. Dooley. And what producers then would fall under that? 

Ms. Quarterman. Any producer who is selling through a true 
arm’s length sale at the wellhead would fall under that. 

Mr. Dooley. And so that would mean that as long as a company 
wasn’t vertically integrated that they would not be — they would be 
basically status quo in terms of their pricing? 



49 


Ms. Quarterman. I would not go so far as to say if they are not 
vertically integrated. We haven’t done the analysis to see exactly 
how many, if any, independents would have to pay under an ANS 
or a NYMEX scenario, but we don’t think that there would be that 
many. The policy would be every single independent producer who 
doesn’t have a refiner, but there would be quite a few who would 
be covered. Yes. 

Mr. Dooley. And I guess then the objective was basically to 
some extent exempt the independents from this new methodology 
in terms of valuation? 

Ms. Quarterman. I would say independent producers, yes. When 
you say independents, there are a number. Yes. 

Mr. Dooley. Right. Excuse me. OK. But that is, obviously, you 
know, a significant concern. I guess, you know, the definition of 
arm’s length status though is still — you know, what does that mean 
I guess? 

Ms. Quarterman. It means you have a sale with a party who is 
not affiliated with you at the well. 

Mr. Dooley. And how long does that have to be? 

Ms. Quarterman. How often is that 

Mr. Dooley. How long for that — ^you know, is that separation I 
guess from that party? Is that always — I mean, is there any — could 
there be a past relationship or that could impact, you know, wheth- 
er or not that is defined as arm’s length? 

Ms. Quarterman. I don’t want to mislead you. Let me ask that 
I have my staff come in and give you a definition of an affiliate. 

Mr. Dooley. Excuse me? 

Ms. Quarterman. I don’t want to mislead you not having read 
the rule in about 3 months myself about what the definition of an 
affiliate is in the rule. 

Mr. Dooley. And it is obviously what my concerns are here in 
terms — I just don’t want — you know, some people are producing 
and primarily the smaller producers, you know, being placed with 
a valuation that is not necessarily reflective of what they are get- 
ting paid for. And that is the gravest concern we have with going 
to an ANS or a NYMEX benchmark. 

You know, I don’t care whether you are a large producer or a 
small producer. You know, sometimes, you know, we are concerned 
that that will not be an accurate reflection. And I guess that is the 
intriguing component of this payment-in-kind is that it reverses all 
of the incentives — is that everyone at that point — the producer and 
everyone else — has the incentive to maximize price opportunities 
and that benefits the Federal Government and the taxpayers, as 
well as the state government. 

My question is if the Department and MMS is seriously consid- 
ering going to a payment-in-kind as it appears that you are and 
you are receptive to that, you know, should we be, you know, mov- 
ing forward with in some ways a fairly significant change in the 
royalty collection, you know, when we might be reinventing the 
process once again in the relatively, you know, near future? 

Ms. Quarterman. I don’t want to mislead you by my testimony 
in saying that we are very enthusiastic about R-I-K does not mean 
that we think that we are at the point now or, in fact, we will ever 



50 


be at the point where it will be appropriate to take all oil and gas 
in-kind. 

I believe that the study that has been done shows that we should 
consider expanding the gas R-I-K program that was done in the 
past. There may be certain instances where it would be appropriate 
to consider taking oil in-kind. We have been approached by the 
State of Wyoming and have offered to work with them on the pilot 
project that they have in mind. So, in other words, we would still 
need a valuation system for that portion of the royalty that was not 
taken in-kind. 

Mrs. CUBIN. Mr. Thornberry? 

Mr. Thornberry. Thank you, Ms. Quarterman. I appreciate your 
testimony. If either of us sit back and look at what has happened 
over the past two or three years, I think MMS and the states and 
industry is all moving in the same direction. There is a little bit 
of difference on how fast we are moving and maybe what all is in- 
cluded, but I think the trend is definitely going toward royalty-in- 
kind. 

And, obviously, I would hope that, as the Chairman said, as 
much as possible we could all work together in getting the best pos- 
sible royalty-in-kind plan because it is, obviously, not going to do 
anybody any good if it increases administrative costs or if it in- 
creases lawsuits or if it doesn’t give the taxpayer a fair return on 
the royalties that they are due. Then we haven’t accomplished very 
much. 

I am a little concerned about your last statement, and that is if 
basically you to use the expression cherry-pick what kinds of leases 
you want to put in a royalty-in-kind program, and some of them 
don’t and so you have to still do the administrative evaluation for 
that, you hadn’t really helped much of the administrative costs, 
have you? I mean, you still have got to have the folks to do that. 

Ms. Quarterman. Well, I think it is a fallacy to think the admin- 
istrative savings are going to be the savings that are important 
here. I think the opportunity for revenue enhancement is the real 
winner. Our royalty program, as was mentioned at the beginning, 
is about $68 million a year, which is about a penny and a half for 
every dollar that we collect. 

About 18 percent of that is collections that we do on behalf of In- 
dian tribes. That, of course, would have to remain. We would still 
have to do collections for solid minerals and geothermal leases. We 
would have to create a royalty-in-kind program. The administrative 
savings are not going to be the real winner here I don’t think. If 
there is a winner, it is that aggregating of volumes and enhancing 
the value downstream. 

Mr. Thornberry. Well, except we have heard some testimony 
today about some remarkable differences in how many administra- 
tive folks it takes to keep up with certain programs. And so that 
is something that we need to work through, but the other winner — 
do you agree that another winner would be reduced litigation costs? 

Ms. Quarterman. Oh, absolutely. It would be. When you think 
about administrative savings, don’t forget about the possible risks. 
As it stands right now, we bring in close to $5 billion a year. We 
collect that in royalties. 



51 


And basically we have 600 or so people in the royalty program 
who sit out in Denver, and we get $4 billion mailed into our office 
no matter what we do every year. If we were to take all that oil 
and gas in-kind, we put in jeopardy that $4 billion that we get 
every year without doing anything. So we really need to be careful 
in what we do, and that is all that I wanted to say to the Com- 
mittee. 

Mr. Thornberry. Yes, ma’am. I think you make a very good 
point, and, as I mentioned, we all want a program that works bet- 
ter, not worse. And we don’t want to jeopardize the taxpayers. Let 
me ask you, one of the issues that I know you all got comments 
on in your meetings and is the subject of our discussion is whether 
it is mandatory or voluntary. What is your view on that subject — 
whether or not companies or even states can opt out? 

Ms. Quarterman. Well, I think if you want to be innovative that 
you need to be open to different ideas. I think it is clear under the 
existing Mineral Leasing Act and the OCS Lands Act that the Sec- 
retary can take oil or gas on demand is what the statute currently 
reads. So any variation or change in that statute some might view 
as a detriment to the taxpayer. 

Having said that, I think that there are opportunities to work to- 
gether with states and industry to work toward a solution that ev- 
erybody can live with. But what we saw in the past was we didn’t 
have enough volumes because it was voluntary. 

Mr. Thornberry. Another point which in the notes from your 
meetings I understand that participants were unanimous about is 
that MMS take its royalty at the lease as far as delivery point goes. 
Do you think that makes sense? That is where it has to be? 

Ms. Quarterman. Well, it makes it more difficult for the govern- 
ment. I think under, again, the existing law and the leases on- 
shore, it seems pretty clear that the government would have to 
take it at the lease offshore that we could ask a producer to bring 
it onshore and pay reasonable costs. Again, if you want to have an 
innovative program that everybody agrees to, you work those 
issues out, and you don’t make any particular thing mandatory. 

Mr. Thornberry. Let me ask you about one more. There was 
concern expressed I know about MMS getting involved in down- 
stream marketing, and yet as I understood your testimony, you 
think that is an option that you want to keep in a royalty-in-kind 
program. Is that right? 

Ms. Quarterman. When you say MMS, that does not necessarily 
mean MMS employees. I do not think that the Federal Government 
employees that I have now would be capable of that, and the rec- 
ommendations that I see coming forward would not include Federal 
Government employees doing that, but rather getting that skill 
from somebody else. It is easier when you are an outside person to 
stay up to speed on the market changes, and all those things would 
be necessary in order to market oil and gas. 

Mr. Thornberry. But in that scenario, MMS would hire some- 
body or some entity? 

Ms. Quarterman. Definitely. 

Mr. Thornberry. But the Federal Government would continue 
to own the product as it moved downstream to some point and 
could market it and sell it there rather than at the lease? 



52 


Ms. Quarterman. Right. 

Mr. Thornberry. OK. And that is something you think is good? 

Ms. Quarterman. Well, I think it is something we should ex- 
plore. Again, there are the risks there because if something hap- 
pens to that oil or gas along the way, we have lost it for the gov- 
ernment. We don’t own any pipelines, any storage space. You know, 
there are risks. 

Mr. Thornberry. Yes, and there are concerns, as you know, 
from industry about getting the government involved in down- 
stream marketing on particularly the amount of volume that the 
government could potentially bring in, that it would pose some 
danger to them as well. 

Ms. Quarterman. Yes. In the Gulf of Mexico, we have about 2.5 
billion cubic feet of gas a day. I think that would make us the larg- 
est owner of gas in the Gulf. 

Mr. Thornberry. Let me ask this final question. I understood 
and you have expressed to me before your concern about moving 
too quickly. If we do try to work with industry and the states to 
develop a R-I-K program in legislation, would the MMS folks be 
willing to work with us and offer their suggestions even if you were 
not to believe that sort of thing would be needed at that particular 
time? 

In other words, I think it is important for us to have your input 
whether or not you think the timing is right. And would you be 
willing to work with us even if you thought the timing was not 
right? 

Ms. Quarterman. Well, certainly, we would work with you. 
Whether we would support you in the end is a different issue. 

Mr. Thornberry. Fair enough. Thank you. 

Mrs. Gubin. Mr. Thornberry’s questions raise some questions in 
my mind. I don’t exactly understand why the $4 billion that just 
automatically comes in would be in jeopardy if we adopted a roy- 
alty-in-kind policy or a royalties-in-kind policy. 

Ms. Quarterman. Well, essentially, right now what happens is 
that oil and gas companies are required to pay us their royalty 
share, and that amounts to about $4 to $5 billion a year. And they 
mail in that amount and really what we argue about are things 
along the margin — potential increases to that amount, audit find- 
ings, verification of volumes, et cetera, which amount to another 
$100 or so million every year. That happens. 

If we take our oil and gas in-kind, it means that we are now re- 
sponsible for taking that oil or gas from the lease into the market- 
place. We have to transport it. We have to sell it. We have to make 
sure that if it blows up, we have liability to cover any damage that 
is associated with it. It is a risk. 

Mrs. Gubin. But I really can’t see why that is — of course, it is 
a risk. It is a risk to get up in the morning, but I don’t see why 
it is a significant risk when you consider the fact that the govern- 
ment does have storage, for one thing. It is the strategic petroleum 
reserves. So, you know, there is storage available. 

And if the companies or the producers don’t have a market and 
can’t sell it, then you are not going to be getting a royalty. I mean, 
I just think that is a real exaggerated view that all of that money 



53 


is at risk. I think that the benefits certainly far outweigh that risk 
it would appear to me. 

Then you said one other thing, and I just want to be sure I have 
this right. You weren’t making or offering the opinion that you 
wouldn’t want to take the mineral at the lease because it is more 
difficult for the government. That would not be the reason or any 
reason that you would not want to take the mineral at the lease. 
Is that right? 

I think the statement you said when Mr. Thornberry asked 
about, “Then would you be willing to take the mineral at the 
lease?” and you said, “Well, it would certainly be a lot more dif- 
ficult for the government to do that.” 

Ms. Quarterman. No, no. I wasn’t saying that we would not take 
it at the lease. I was saying that probably we would take it at the 
lease, and, in fact, onshore I think that is a requirement. 

Mrs. CuBiN. OK. I just wanted to get that clear. Thank you. Mr. 
Brady? 

Mr. Brady. Thank you. Madam Chairman. As a Member of Con- 
gress, I would agree that it is a risk getting up in the morning 
around here. I had stepped out for a minute, and I only have two 
quick questions. So if I wander into an area that has already been 
covered, let me know please. 

Thanks for the testimony. Thanks for hanging on through all 
this. You mentioned your reluctance to include all the oil and gas 
in the R-I-K program. And I know that in Texas over the years we 
have learned from the process in trying to improve all the time, 
and it has become clear that I think many of us would like to see 
legislation that provides for a staged process where we would stage 
in different regions so that we could accumulate and gather as 
much of that volume as possible. Are you supportive of a staged ap- 
proach as we go forward? 

Ms. Quarterman. Without seeing what the stages are, it is hard 
for me to comment on that. 

Mr. Brady. Obviously, putting in place for both the agency and 
for the industry enough time and thought in different areas so that 
we are, in fact, gathering as many of those different wells and pro- 
ducers and all in order to gather all the oil and gas in the system. 

Ms. Quarterman. I suppose it is possible. 

Mr. Brady. And it would make sense sort of if 

Ms. Quarterman. The stage approach could make sense, but it 
is hard to talk to without seeing it. 

Mr. Brady. Considering and thinking through some of the bene- 
fits of this system, including providing contracts for other govern- 
ment agencies using and bidding for these contracts, but thinking 
about the litigation, the time of that, the cost of that, especially the 
delay of that, I see the benefit of R-I-K providing, once we are up 
and moving, money to your pocket and taxpayers’ pockets sooner 
and us gaining that increase of time value, of having the money in- 
pocket. Do you agree with that? 

Ms. Quarterman. There would be an increase in revenues for 
the time value of money for, again, the incremental amount that 
we would get from audit, not for the bulk of the money. And was 
there a first half to that question? 

Mr. Brady. No, it was just regarding the litigation costs 



54 


Ms. Quarterman. Oh, the litigation. 

Mr. Brady, [continuing] expenses, time, delay. 

Ms. Quarterman. Well, unfortunately, I am not as well staffed 
with attorneys as some of my adversaries. I think we have about 
four lawyers who work on royalty matters of the Interior Depart- 
ment. They also work with staff at the Justice Department on any 
Federal litigation. So the costs there are not as high as you might 
think. 

Mr. Brady. OK. Although I would say the Federal Government 
does pretty well with the lawyer pool. I think you all are pretty 
well covered in that area overall. 

Ms. Quarterman. Top notch. 

Mr. Brady. Just a thought. Thank you. Madam Chairman. 

Mrs. Gubin. Maybe if you told the Secretary that you needed 
those lawyers, he could free them up on that mineral bonding. Ms. 
Quarterman, the Ranking Member requested earlier, and so I will 
make the formal request to you if you would please do this — he 
asked that you would send to us a record of the estimated litigation 
costs so we would appreciate if you did. 

Ms. Quarterman. We will do that. 

Mrs. Gubin. Thank you very much and thank all of you for at- 
tending the hearing today and will look forward to working with 
you in the future. This Subcommittee stands adjourned. 

[Whereupon, at 5:38 p.m., the Subcommittee was adjourned.] 



HEARING ON; ROYALTY-IN-KIND FOR FED- 
ERAL OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION (PART II) 


THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18, 1997 

House of Representatives, Subcommittee on Energy 
AND Mineral Resources, Committee on Resources, 
Washington, DC. 

The Subcommittee met, pursuant to notice, at 2:15 p.m. in room 
1334, Longworth House Office Building, Hon. Barbara Cubin 
(chairman of the subcommittee) presiding. 

STATEMENT OF THE HON. WILLIAM M. “MAC” THORNBERRY, A 
REPRESENTATIVE IN CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF TEXAS 

Mr. Thornberry. [presiding] The hearing will come to order. Ms. 
Cubin has been detained in another markup, and she will join us 
later. And at this time, I would like to submit her opening state- 
ment into the record without objection. 

[The prepared statement of Ms. Cubin follows:] 

Statement of Hon. Barbara Cubin, a Representative in Congress from the 

State of Wyoming 

The Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources will come to order. The Sub- 
committee is meeting today to hear testimony on the Feasibility of Taking Federal 
Oil and Gas Royalties In Kind. Under Rule 4(g) of the Committee Rules, any oral 
opening statements at hearings are limited to the Chairman and the Ranking Mi- 
nority Member. This will allow us to hear from our witnesses sooner and help Mem- 
bers keep to their schedules. Therefore, if other Members have statements, they can 
be included in the hearing record under unanimous consent. 

The Subcommittee meets today to continue its review of issues concerning the col- 
lection of production royalties due the United States from Federal oil and gas leases 
onshore, and on the Outer Continental Shelf (OCS). This oversight follows upon our 
hearing of July 31st for which were unable to hear all witnesses identified by both 
the Minority and Majority as having meaningful views on R-I-K feasibility. 

After today I am hopeful that the Subcommittee will have gained sufficient in- 
sight to begin a legislative initiative resulting in a workable R-I-K program at the 
Minerals Management Service (MMS). 

As I said at the last hearing, my intent is to greatly diminish the enormous re- 
sources spent in the audit and enforcement functions of collecting royalty-in-value, 
because these costs are a loss to both the Federal and state treasuries. Yes, I under- 
stand the administrative costs of the Departments of the Interior necessary to con- 
duct audits, bill lessees and then attempt to collect those bills is conducted with ap- 
propriated dollars, not direct spending. 

Likewise, Justice Department costs associated with litigation over valuation dis- 
putes are subject to appropriation, and therefore the obvious savings that an R-I- 
K program ought to bring the government may not appear in a CBO analysis. But, 
my constituents in Wyoming, and I suspect Americans everywhere, don’t care about 
arcane budget enforcement scoring rules. They, like me, simply want these royalties 
collected in the most efficient manner possible because tbat will result in a net gain 
for all. 

I need not reiterate my opening statement from July. Suffice it to say there must 
be a better way to collect wbat is owed for tbe right to produce oil and gas from 

( 55 ) 



56 


the public lands and the OCS. I trust the testimony from today’s witnesses will help 
us in that endeavor. 

Before I turn to our Ranking Member, Mr. Romero-Barcelo, for any statement he 
may have, let me collectively welcome all our witnesses. I wish to especially thank 
Mr. Henderson who has traveled all the way from Calgary, Canada, to be with us 
today and shed light upon the private marketing of the Crown’s oil produced in Al- 
berta Province. I’m sure there are lessons we can learn from this system in design- 
ing a workable program for the U.S. As with the last hearing, I have asked the 
MMS to testify after other witnesses so that I can be sure the feds have listened 
intently to the preceding testimony, and perhaps gained some insights from it. 

To wit, I am concerned about MMS’ response to written questions which I posed 
in early August (and for which we have only yesterday received a response). It 
seems to me the general tone of the response to be “Remember, the Gulf of Mexico 
gas pilot lost money, so lets be exceedingly slow and cautious about doing more R- 
I-K.” 

I believe that analysis deserves further scrutiny before we take as gospel the 
MMS’ extrapolation of an $82 million loss if all natural gas in the Gulf had been 
included. Besides, its time we climbed the learning curve and made another attempt 
to avoid the mistakes in the design of the 1995 pilot. Programs in Alberta and Texas 
both are apparently successful at adding value for those governments. Its time to 
get on with making it work for the benefit of all our citizens. 

The Chair now recognizes the Ranking Minority Member for any statement he 
may have. 

Mr. Thornberry. The Subcommittee is meeting today to hear 
testimony on the feasibility on taking Federal oil and gas royalties- 
in-kind. Under Rule 4(g) of the committee rules, any opening state- 
ments at hearings are limited to the chairman and ranking minor- 
ity member. This will allow us to hear from our witnesses sooner 
and help members keep to their schedules. Therefore, if any other 
members also have statements, they can be included in the hearing 
record under unanimous consent. 

I would like to thank Chairman Cubin for holding this hearing 
today. Royalty-in-kind is an issue that I have worked on for 2 
years, and it is an issue that I believe deserves a lot of consider- 
ation by all the parties involved. 

The subcommittee meets today to continue its review of issues 
concerning royalty-in-kind. This oversight hearing follows our hear- 
ing on July Slst for which we were unable to hear all the witnesses 
identified by the minority and majority as having meaningful views 
on RIK feasibility. 

Today I am hopeful the subcommittee will have gained sufficient 
insight to begin a legislative initiative resulting in a workable RIK 
program at MMS. 

Suffice it to say there must be a better way to collect what is 
owed for the right to produce oil and gas from public lands in OCS. 
I trust the testimony from today’s witnesses will help us in that en- 
deavor. 

Let me collectively welcome all our witnesses. I want to espe- 
cially thank Mr. Henderson, who has traveled all the way from 
Calgary, Canada to be with us and hopefully had, help shed light 
on the private marketing of the Crown’s Oil produced in Alberta. 
I am sure that there are lessons we can learn from this system in 
designing a workable program for the U.S., and as with the last 
hearing, Ms. Cubin asked that MMS testify after other witnesses 
so that we can be sure that they have listened to the testimony and 
hear their comments on it. 

Like Mrs. Cubin, I, too, am concerned about MMS’ response to 
written questions that were posed in early August and for which 



57 


the subcommittee only yesterday received a response. It seems to 
me that the general tone of the response is remember, the Gulf of 
Mexico gas pilot lost money, so let us be slow and careful about 
doing anything more. Personally, I believe the results of the Gulf 
of Mexico pilot project are invalid and have, call into serious ques- 
tion the, the worthiness of, of considering that pilot program. The 
lessons learned with the pilot — there were some lessons to be 
learned with the pilot project, but I believe those lessons could be 
entitled how not to administer a pilot project. 

As many of you know, RIK is an important issue to me. For the 
record, I think that most of my colleagues at least know that 2 
years ago, I was approached by the Texas General Land Office with 
a request to pursue RIK. I admit that at the time, it was something 
I was not familiar with, but after looking into it, I believe that it 
is something important for the country. In my view, a well-struc- 
tured and developed RIK program would reduce the size of the 
Federal Government, eliminate burdensome paperwork for oil and 
gas industry, MMS and state governments, and provide additional 
revenue for the Federal Government. 

When I first discussed this issue with the oil and gas industry 
and with MMS, there was a significant level of opposition from 
both sides. I am continuing to press forward, because I believe that 
RIK is in the best interest of the Federal Government and the in- 
dustry and the taxpayers. Two years ago, RIK was going nowhere. 
This year again I reopened the file and tried to give it, tried to give 
it another try. I have been meeting with both MMS and represent- 
atives of the oil and gas industry and have requested their help 
and assistance in crafting legislation. I have indicated to both par- 
ties that I intend to introduce legislation at some point this fall, 
and it is my request that all interested parties assist us in making 
this program work as, as well as it possibly can. Frankly, we have 
had resistance from the industry. We have had resistance from 
MMS. But I believe it is worth pursuing and, and I need, we all 
need the assistance in making it work as, as well as possible. 

Today I am again asking for assistance, because I believe it is 
in everyone, including MMS’ best interest, to participate while the 
oil and gas industry is now talking with us about how to make RIK 
work. At times, they have been reluctant participants. But I believe 
it is the right thing to do and intend to pursue. And I certainly 
want to work with all those who are interested in completing this 
legislation. 

Before we begin our testimony, I would turn it over to the rank- 
ing member for any comments he would like to make. 

STATEMENT OF THE HON. CARLOS A. ROMERO-BARCELO, A 

DELEGATE IN CONGRESS FROM THE TERRITORY OF PUER- 
TO RICO 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and we appre- 
ciate the additional opportunity to review the potential for a roy- 
alty-in-kind program in the Federal oil and gas leasing program. 

We believe that a great deal more analysis and assessment is re- 
quired before we can responsibly determine whether or not legisla- 
tion is required to impose the royalty-in-kind program on the Fed- 
eral Government and the petroleum industry. 



58 


To focus our dialog on this issue, the minority has requested that 
the Congressional Research Service analyze the various issues at- 
tendant to the royalty-in-kind concept. With the agreement of the 
Chair, I would like to submit for the record a September 17 memo- 
randum from the CRS, Congressional Research Service, addressing 
our questions. 

And the CRS report discusses the major issues that would be in- 
volved in the establishment of a large-scale royalty-in-kind pro- 
gram in the United States. In summary, the CRS found, and I 
quote, that “RIK proponents contend that the system would reduce 
administrative costs and disagreements over the valuation of oil 
and gas production for royalty collections. However, such a system 
also would require an effective system for marketing the Federal 
Government’s oil and gas and could lead to significant government 
involvement in oil and gas markets.” As noted previously at our 
last hearing, our experience in Puerto Rico with involvement — in- 
volving the government in areas of market, marketing areas and 
private business has not been positive. It has been very, very poor 
experience, and we are privatizing again all of those services which 
were made into government services. 

Also, at the Minority’s request, we will hear today from three 
highly respected and exceptional individuals who do not work in 
the petroleum industry but who are also very knowledgeable on the 
structure, economics and trends in this dynamic sector. Mr. Tim 
Cohelan, Mr. Ed Rothschild and Ms. Danielle Brian each approach 
this issue from different perspectives and will provide the sub- 
committee with an objective and well-informed assessment of the 
royalty-in-kind concept. 

And we commend the Minerals Management Service for taking 
such a positive yet a cautious approach to the royalty-in-kind con- 
cept in the September 2nd report which we will learn more about 
this afternoon. 

The MMS proposal to conduct a good-sized pilot for natural gas 
in the Gulf of Mexico, built on the lessons learned in the 1995 ef- 
fort, should provide quantitative and reliable information. Like- 
wise, the proposals for ventures with Wyoming and Texas should 
produce valuable and necessary information. 

And before moving forward with legislation, we need to deter- 
mine that a royalty-in-kind program would be administratively fea- 
sible and fiscally sound. The detailed revenue impact analysis to be 
conducted by the MMS will assess the market risks and costs they 
would face in this new arena. We should allow them the time nec- 
essary to analyze the advantages and risks before we conclude that 
royalty-in-kind is a better way to more effectively — efficiently col- 
lect oil and gas royalties. 

Meanwhile, we can and should continue our investigation into 
this area, and it is important that we have a clear understanding 
of the domestic oil and gas industry as it exists today, if we are 
to seriously consider privatizing the Federal program. 

Thank you. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Romero-Barcelo follows:] 



59 


Statement of Hon. Carlos Romero-Barcelo, a Delegate in Congress from 
THE Territory of Puerto Rico 

Madame Chair, we appreciate the additional opportunity to review the potential 
for a royalty-in-kind program in the Federal oil and gas leasing program. 

We believe that a great deal more analysis and assessment is required before we 
can responsibly determine whether or not legislation is required to impose a “roy- 
alty-in-kind” program on the Federal Government and the petroleum industry. 

To focus our dialog on this issue, the Minority has requested that the Congres- 
sional Research Service analyze the various issues attendant to the “royalty-in-kind” 
concept. With the agreement of the Chair, I would like to submit for the Record a 
September 17 Memorandum from the CRS addressing our questions. 

The CRS report discusses the major issues that would be involved in the estab- 
lishment of a large-scale royalty-in-kind program in the United States. In summary, 
the CRS found, and I quote, that “RIK proponents contend that the system would 
reduce administrative costs and disagreements over the valuation of oil and gas pro- 
duction for royalty collections. However, such a system also would require an effec- 
tive system for marketing the Federal Government’s oil and gas and could lead to 
significant government involvement in oil and gas markets.” As noted previously at 
our last hearing, our experience in Puerto Rico with involving the government in 
private business has not been positive. 

Also, at the Minority’s request, we will hear today from three highly respected 
and exceptional individuals who do not work in the petroleum industry, but, who 
are also very knowledgeable on the structure, economics and trends in this dynamic 
sector. Mr. Tim Cohelan, Mr. Ed Rothschild and Ms. Danielle Bryan each approach 
this issue from different perspectives and will provide the Subcommittee with an ob- 
jective and well informed assessment of the royalty-in-kind concept. 

We commend the Minerals Management Service for taking such a positive yet 
cautious approach to the “royalty-in-kind” concept in its September 2 report which 
we will learn more about this afternoon. 

The MMS proposal to conduct a good-sized pilot for natural gas in the Gulf of 
Mexico, built on the lessons learned in the 1995 effort, should provide quantitative 
and reliable information. Likewise the proposals for joint ventures with Wyoming 
and Texas should produce valuable and necessary information. 

Before moving forward with legislation, we need to determine that a royalty-in 
kind program would be administratively feasible and fiscally sound. The detailed 
revenue impact analysis to be conducted by the MMS will assess the market risks 
and costs they would face in this new arena. We should allow them the time nec- 
essary to analyze the advantages and risks before we conclude that R-I-K is the 
“better way to more efficiently collect” oil and gas royalties. 

Meanwhile, we can and should continue our investigation into this area. It is im- 
portant that we have a clear understanding of the domestic oil and gas industry as 
it exists today, if we are to seriously consider privatizing the Federal program. 

Thank you. 

Mr. Thornberry. I thank the gentleman. Now I am going to in- 
troduce our first panel of witnesses. Mr. William Henderson, Mar- 
ket Development Representative, Gulf Canada Resources; Danielle 
Brian, Executive Director, Project on Government Oversight; Rich- 
ard Rorschach, National Chairman, National Association of Royalty 
Owners; Ed Rothschild, Public Affairs Director, Citizen Action; Lin- 
den Smith, Managing Director, Barents Group; Timothy Cohelan, 
Cohelan & Koury; and Bob Neufeld, Vice President, Environmental 
& Government Relations, Wyoming Refining Company. 

I believe all the, the witnesses are at the table. Let me remind 
our witnesses that under the committee rules, they must limit 
their oral statements to 5 minutes but that their entire statement 
will appear in the record. And we also want to allow the entire 
panel to testify, and then we will, we will have our questions. 

Mr. Henderson, if you would like to lead off, sir. 



60 


STATEMENT OF WILLIAM HENDERSON, MARKET DEVELOP- 
MENT REPRESENTATIVE, GULF CANADA RESOURCES 

Mr. Henderson. Good afternoon. On behalf of Gulf Canada Re- 
sources Limited, it is my pleasure to be here this afternoon and 
give you Gulfs thoughts with respect to Alberta’s current royalty- 
in-kind process for crude oil. I understand the Minerals Manage- 
ment Service is now debating whether to move to an in-kind type 
of system, and I hope my comments will be of some benefit to both 
the service and yourselves. 

Alberta’s royalty-in-kind process started in 1974 as a result of 
the energy price shocks in the early seventies together with juris- 
dictional issues involving the Federal provincial government over 
Canada’s mineral resources. The in-kind process has undergone a 
number of changes throughout the years, the most recent being the 
move toward privatization. Previous to June 1996, the Alberta gov- 
ernment used the services of 100 percent government agency, the 
Alberta Petroleum Marketing Commission, or APMC for short, to 
market the royalty share of crude oil. 

As a result of government funding cutbacks and the general de- 
sire to get out of the business of being in business, the government 
turned the marketing responsibilities over to three agents. Gulf 
Canada being one of them. The decision to move to privatization 
using agency relationships took over 2 years and involved a num- 
ber of studies and a great deal of industry consultation, much the 
same as you are going through now. 

A number of different alternatives were exampled — or sorry, 
were examined including two variations of a cash royalty system. 
First, royalties would be based on the royalty payer’s actual cash 
proceeds of sale. Second, they looked at royalties based on a series 
of reference prices ultimately netted back to the field location using 
the extensive quality and location data base maintained by the gov- 
ernment. These reference prices were to be further adjusted by a 
market differential obtained through pricing surveys of producers. 
These two options were rejected by the government, as we believe 
that either one would, would result in less royalty revenue as com- 
pared to the in-kind system. 

I should note that it was the first of these two options favored 
by larger industry producers, as these companies were very con- 
cerned about volume control. Smaller producers preferred an in- 
kind system and were generally — sorry, were generally in favor of 
the status quo. Privatization options including bid block sales were 
also examined but rejected by the government due to net back con- 
cerns and whether, in fact, the government was actually getting 
out of the sales business. 

Finally, at the end of the review, the government opted on re- 
taining the in-kind process using private sector agents to market 
the royalty oil instead of the APMC. Using revenue pooling prin- 
ciples, the government would be assured that it was receiving the 
same net backs as its agents while at the same time achieving its 
No. 1 objective of getting out of the sales business. With bench- 
mark formulas built into the contracts, the government would also 
be assured the agents were receiving market prices for all sales. 
Also with ownership of the royalty volumes staying with the gov- 
ernment until point of sale, the government could call upon its 



61 


agents to undertake policy initiatives to protect the value of Alber- 
ta’s resources or in making the production and marketing processes 
more efficient. 

In the decision as to which agents to select, bids were solicited 
and reviewed based on a number of published criteria. Although 
not formally published, I believe one of the fundamental criteria 
was for the government to align itself with companies who had the 
same basic objective as the government, to maximize revenue. This 
is why Canadian producers such as Gulf Canada were chosen and 
large integrateds with refining operations, where pipeline compa- 
nies with marketing arms were not. 

The incorporation of the government volumes in the Gulfs mar- 
keting processes and systems was relatively painless. There was a 
large up-front data load required to get the appropriate data into 
our systems, but this was a one-time process. 

As Crown volumes awarded to Gulf were of similar qualities to 
Gulfs existing volumes, the buyers were the same. The sales con- 
tracts were easily adjusted or signed. Day-to-day operational dif- 
ficulties have been minimal with the only real troublesome spot 
being royalty volume forecasting. We have seen large volume 
swings between forecast and actual have, have resulted in some 
last minute scrambling, and we are currently working with the 
government to address this problem. 

Gulf believes that both industry and the government have bene- 
fited from the recent privatization move. Government has achieved 
it is getting out of business objective while keeping its revenue 
streams intact if not enhanced. At the same time, it has been able 
to keep a relatively simple and straightforward in-kind process 
while not increasing administrative costs. Industry has benefited 
as it has not had to go through the pain of a major change in roy- 
alty systems. In fact, other than having to change the name of the 
organization to which reports are directed, there has been abso- 
lutely no change in industry administration. 

In moving to agency relationships, the government was con- 
cerned that it would lose its window on market events and issues 
as it had with the APMC. This concern was unfounded, as Gulf has 
been very active in government liaison and maintaining the com- 
munication channels. For example, we were recently partnered 
with the government in a lengthy regulatory hearing regarding the 
reversal of the strategic Eastern Canadian pipeline. 

In terms of benefits to Gulf, the most obvious and direct benefit 
we obtain is the marketing fee attached to the Crown barrels. The 
major indirect benefit is that with larger volume control, we are 
able to provide both the governments and our customers with in- 
creased service and more flexibility. 

On a final and more subtle note, we are observing a large change 
in the structure of the oil and gas industry throughout North 
America. We see the Shell Texaco, Ashland Marathon and other 
mergers taking place. We see our producing competition from the 
south, Venezuela and Mexico, as huge nationalized producers. In 
order for Alberta to compete, it appears we too will have to become 
bigger. I think the province of Alberta realized this when choosing 
the agents it did. 

Thank you. 



62 


[The prepared statement of Mr. Henderson may be found at end 
of hearing.] 

Mr. Thornberry. Thank you. Ms. Brian. 

STATEMENT OF DANIELLE BRIAN, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 
PROJECT ON GOVERNMENT OVERSIGHT 

Ms. Brian. Thank you very much. I ask that my written com- 
ments are submitted into the record. 

I think it is important for us to sort of step back and remember 
why we are here. The reason we are considering any change in the 
royalty management program is that the government has finally 
recognized, along with other landowners, private landowners and 
states, that we have not been getting enough money for the crude 
that is produced on our land. As a result, the MMS finally recog- 
nized they needed to make a change, and they proposed a new rule 
in which they would actually be collecting more money. Suddenly, 
as a reaction to that suggestion, RIK came up as an idea that in- 
dustry really wanted to pursue, but it absolutely fails to address 
the reasons why landowners have not been able to collect the 
money that was owed to them. It is really simply a diversion tactic 
from focusing on the real problem. 

The reason that we landowners, we American citizen landowners, 
have not been getting enough money for crude produced on our 
land is that there is really no competition at the wellhead. As a re- 
sult, we get the undervalued crude. RIK will not change this prob- 
lem. We start talking about entirely different issues leaving the 
heart of the problem and the reason we are all involved in this ex- 
ercise totally untouched. States and private royalty owners, when 
balancing the differences between RIK and being paid in value 
have chosen to go to the NYMEX system. 

Mr. Thornberry, in his opening comments, referred to the fact 
that Texas was interested in RIK a couple of years ago. But now 
that they have really started evaluating the success of that system, 
Texas in their comments to the committee concluded the bottom 
line is that their state in-kind program would not exist if royalty 
payments were based on the market value of oil. 

Another example from the states in deciding whether RIK was 
of value to them is when you look at California’s success. I have 
four charts showing, actually it is Federal crude in California, and 
when you look at the differences in, in here we have at Midway 
Sunset, the differences between postings and RIK, they are getting 
the same prices. There was no success, no added value to going to 
RIK from postings. 

There are four myths that I want to address in my oral state- 
ments. The first is the myth that RIK would mean more revenue 
to the government. This was initially industry’s proposal, this 
would really be a better thing to do than the proposed rule. I have 
noticed in the last set of comments suddenly industry has moved, 
and now they are saying it is revenue neutral. They are no longer 
trying to claim it is going to be a revenue enhancer anymore. 

MMS, in their feasibility study, pointed that out also, that when 
they asked marketers how is government really going to come out 
ahead? How are we going to be making more money? The market- 
ers themselves could not give any convincing evidence the govern- 



63 


ment was going to get anymore money by moving to RIK. These 
are the people who would be doing it, and they said they could not, 
could not explain it. 

I am not opposed to RIK as a concept at all. I am simply sug- 
gesting that we go in with the pilot programs that MMS is already 
suggesting that we move in. There is really no reason to have legis- 
lation that would require a nationwide program and eliminate the 
opportunity to actually get paid for the market value of our oil. 

The argument also that is being made as to why RIK would be 
better for the government is that we would be reducing the size of 
the MMS. But when you look at the numbers, the entire budget of 
the MMS is $60 million a year, and through their current auditing 
process, which I am the last person to defend, they are still making 
$125 million, and the proposed rule would actually, is estimated to 
increase that revenue by at least another $100 million. So if you 
eliminated MMS entirely through going to RIK, we have no govern- 
ment auditors for gas, oil, any of the other mineral royalties that 
they work on, you are still going to have to justify $225 million 
that is coming in through a value-based program, and RIK simply 
cannot do that by itself 

The other myth that I wanted to dispel is the fear that has been 
spread that independents would be forced to pay the market price 
or the NYMEX price even if they did not receive it. The revision 
to MMS’ rule absolutely makes that concern baseless. If you see in 
the rule, they are given the option if an independent sells in an 
arm’s-length transaction, they are given the option either of paying 
by, by NYMEX or gross proceeds. I was concerned about the inde- 
pendents’ plight too, actually, and I thought that was really a ter- 
ribly important distinction to make. 

I wanted to just finally say that the argument also that the 
NYMEX does not reflect real prices is really extraordinary coming 
from an industry that uses NYMEX in all of their annual state- 
ments as a reflection of crude oil prices. 

I am sure it is not lost on you that industry is in favor of RIK 
and opposes the new rule. Of course they are. They are interested 
in their bottom line and not ours. You cannot blame them for try- 
ing, but we certainly should not let them get away with it. 

Thank you. 

[The prepared statement of Ms. Brian may be found at end of 
hearing.] 

Mr. Thornberry. Thank you. Mr. Rorschach. 

STATEMENT OF RICHARD RORSCHACH, NATIONAL CHAIRMAN, 
NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF ROYALTY OWNERS 

Mr. Rorschach. Good afternoon. Chairman Thornberry and 
members of the committee. I am Richard Rorschach. I am an oil 
and gas lawyer from Kilgore, Texas. I am the national chairman 
of National Association of Royalty Owners. I am also the managing 
partner of Pentagon Oil Company which is a minerals management 
company. We own the minerals, and we manage them. 

We are here today to talk about the royalty owners’ comments 
concerning the changes to the current cash-based collection system 
and, and maybe to give the committee at least insight from, from 



64 


the royalty owners’ standpoint, at least the, the owners, private 
royalty owners’ standpoint. 

My organization, NARO, the National Association of Royalty 
Owners, has approximately 5,000 members. We also represent the 
interests of five major indian tribes, the Apache, the Navajo, the 
Sac and Fox, the Osage and the Chickashay — Chickasaw. We are 
dedicated to the needs of the nation’s more than 4.5 million private 
royalty owners. There is 4.5 million of us kicking around this coun- 
try. A large number of our members are over 70 years of age. They 
rely on their royalty income to supplement their Social Security 
checks. Most of us or many of us live in rural areas still. I live on 
a farm. We have a number of farmers and ranchers in our organi- 
zation. They rely on their royalty check during periods of drought 
in the summer and, and bad weather in the wintertime to carry 
them through. The towns around which they live benefit from, from 
the royalty checks that come in, because these royalty owners 
spend their checks, and in fact, an oil country banker has said that 
royalty income is the financial heartbeat of the heartland. So you 
can see that royalty income is very important to the members of 
my organization and to 4.5 million people in this country. 

We have wrestled with the problem of posted prices which is, is 
part of the problem for many years, and in recent years, the indus- 
try has become in disarray about pricing policies. Recently has, has 
been alluded to, there have been a number of lawsuits filed, prob- 
ably the most publicized is the General Land Office suit in the 
state of Texas. However, there have been some other class action 
lawsuits filed throughout the country. Now it is apparent to me 
that as a result of these lawsuits that the last few nails are being 
nailed into the coffin of posted prices. We are going to have a new 
method to determine the value on which royalty is calculated. The 
question is what is the best method. 

Well, we think that the best method is one that most easily de- 
termines the fair market value of the production and which gen- 
erates the least amount of paperwork. Now let us look at a couple 
of things. The Minerals Management Service has about 61,000 
wells on Federal land. Forty six thousand of those wells are low 
volume or marginally producing wells. That accounts for about 
140,000 barrels of production a day. Now if we overburden the pro- 
ducers of these low margin, low margin wells, these low volume 
wells with onerous paperwork, you know what they are going to 
do? They are going to shut those wells in. We are going to lose 
140,000 barrels of oil a day, and we cannot afford to do that. 

I know most of you are familiar with the Commerce Department 
report that stated earlier in the year that imports, imported crude 
oil is, is a threat to our national security. If we lose that 140,000 
barrels because of onerous paperwork, we are going to have to im- 
port 140,000 other barrels which, according to Commerce Depart- 
ment, is a threat to our national security. 

But then, not only that, if all this paperwork is generated out in 
the field, it has got to come to Washington. People in Washington 
have got to look at it. That is going to — I do not know how many 
people. That is — you can remember the old Federal Power Commis- 
sion days if, if some of you remember that, and the volumes, the 



65 


truckloads of paperwork that came into Washington, some of which 
was never even looked at. I do not want to get into that situation. 

Now how do we avoid this mass of paperwork and still receive 
a fair market value? Well, the royalty-in-kind may just be the an- 
swer to this. If we could — and, and I am not talking about the Fed- 
eral Government taking and FISHKA physically taking possession 
of it, because they will think they have to. The MMS could set up 
auctions throughout the various parts of the country in which the 
MMS operates and auction off the crude once a month, once every 
3 months, whatever, to qualified bidders who would — and what 
would you realize from that? One, you would realize the maximum 
price. At an auction, you are going to get the maximum price. The 
crude oil buyers are going to come in there and pay what they need 
to pay to get what they need. Two, you are going to reduce the pa- 
perwork. And three, you are not going to be required to hire on 
anymore personnel at the MMS. 

Now you have heard the Canadian brother, and Canada proc- 
esses 146,000 barrels of crude oil every day with 33 people. We 
have got 950 people in the MMS processing 204,000 barrels. We 
ought to be able to do as well as our Canadian brothers. 

Our goal in my organization is we want to see the establishment 
of fair, accurate and workable pricing in royalty practice — reporting 
practices to the end that a true value for basing royalty calcula- 
tions can be determined. We in NARO think that an RIK program, 
where feasible, it is not going to be feasible in all areas, but in the 
areas where it is feasible, is the way to go. 

That concludes my comments. Thank you for your attention. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Rorschach may be found at end 
of hearing.] 

Mr. Thornberry. Thank you, sir. Mr. Rothschild. 

STATEMENT OF EDWIN S. ROTHSCHILD, PUBLIC AFFAIRS 
DIRECTOR, CITIZEN ACTION 

Mr. Rothschild. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and we do appre- 
ciate the opportunity to testify today on RIK. 

Just some observations first, and the most intriguing of which is 
I have been doing energy work, energy policy work on the con- 
sumer side about 25 years. There are some people in the audience 
that know that quite well. And in all that time, there, all the time 
that MMS has been operating, all that time we have had Federal 
leases, there has been no charge or interest in moving to an RIK 
system. I think that only after the states particularly started suing 
oil companies for underpayment, and as a result settling as they 
have in Texas to pay on the basis of market prices based upon 
NYMEX prices, and that the MMS has suggested similar types of 
pricing, that all of a sudden, RIK — importance. 

Now if the industry is so interested in RIK, then I have to say 
well, is this going to be good for the government? And the bottom 
line I think as a government official, as people working to protect 
the fiduciary responsibility of protecting the public’s interest, the 
bottom line is simply which system or group of systems or combina- 
tion of systems will generate fair market value for the public, for 
the U.S. Treasury. Not for royalty owners or private royalty own- 
ers, not for oil companies or gas producers or oil producers. They, 



66 


they will pursue their own interests. The job is to protect U.S. 
Treasury and the public’s interest. 

So what does that mean? Does that mean we should absolutely 
go mandatory RIK? Absolutely not. I do not think, from the evi- 
dence that I have seen, that an RIK program would fit everywhere. 
This is not a one-size-fits-all policy, and we should not go in that 
direction. 

Now does that mean that RIK will not work in some areas? It 
may very well. I think there was, as Mr. Chairman you mentioned, 
a test. Was not a very good one. You are absolutely right. They had 
a lot of learning to do, and I think they have learned some lessons 
from that test. But we need a few more tests. This may very well 
work with respect to offshore natural gas, and if it does, if it is the 
best program to use for offshore natural gas, we should use it. 

I also suspect, however, that it will not be that good for oil, par- 
ticularly offshore oil. And there, I turn your attention to some of 
the tables in the testimony I have submitted. You can see the fact 
that there has been a severe decline in the number of oil producers, 
that the largest producers have remained stable over time, that the 
eight largest companies, you know, have been the eight largest 
companies for a long time, that the amount of U.S. production has 
remained fairly stable at or near 70 percent, and that they are the 
largest royalty payers on Federal land, the top 10 companies ac- 
counting in 1996 for 61 percent of oil royalties, which is not true 
on the natural gas side, where they only account for 42 percent of 
the royalties paid. 

Secondly, in many cases, your transactions that occur with re- 
spect to oil, we see that there are not arms-length transactions, 
that there is no real competition for those sales. And that would 
put a very great burden on whether the government or some mar- 
keting outfit that the government hires tries to sell that oil. It is 
not likely to work. And so I do not think an RIK program in that 
situation makes a great deal of sense if you are not going to be able 
to assure that it is going to be a competitive price. And I think that 
has got to be the bottom line, and we heard the idea about an auc- 
tion. An auction would be very nice, but if there is a single pipe- 
line, if that pipeline is owned by the production company on the, 
on the lease, you have all sorts of structural problems, and if you 
do not really resolve those and account for those and deal with 
those, this kind of program is not going to work. 

So the — I would point out also that the industry has made a 
great issue about the costs of marketing oil or gas. And I suspect 
those are, in most cases, fictitious. The — in their comments and re- 
sponse to questions from the committee, I point out that Texas, I 
think, said very clearly that in general, our leases require the les- 
see to deliver the product without deduction for the cost of pro- 
ducing, gathering, storing, separating, treating, dehydrating, com- 
pressing, processing, transporting and otherwise making the prod- 
uct ready for sale or use. That is what they do. That is what they 
have done clearly in all of these leases, and it seems to me that 
that ought to continue, that that is the job of the companies taking 
the oil from the lease. 

Mr. Chairman, I will be happy to stop there and be willing to an- 
swer any questions. 



67 


[The prepared statement of Mr. Rothschild may be found at end 
of hearing.] 

Mr. Thornberry. Thank you. A vote has just started, but I be- 
lieve, Mr. Smith, if you would like to proceed, we will have time 
to do your testimony, and then we will probably have to go vote on 
an amendment on the floor. 

STATEMENT OF LINDEN SMITH, MANAGING DIRECTOR, 
BARENTS GROUP 

Mr. Smith. OK, thank you. My name is Lin Smith, and I am a 
managing director of Barents Group LLC, a KPMG Company. I 
lead the firm’s legislative and regulatory policy economics practice, 
and I am appearing today on behalf of 21 industry trade associa- 
tions listed in my written statement. These associations represent 
producers of essentially all the oil and gas produced in the U.S. 

I am here today to discuss how a permanent royalty-in-kind pro- 
gram can provide a net benefit to the Federal Government, the 
states and lessees, and specifically, to focus on some of the Federal 
policy and budgetary implications of an RIK program. Clearly, any 
serious legislative alternative will need to be scored CBO as being 
at least revenue neutral. 

Several broad principles are important to keep in mind when 
considering a well-designed Federal royalty system. Some are basic 
to good government policy while others are specific to the Federal 
royalty area. I will raise just a few of these now, but I encourage 
you to read my written testimony. 

First, it needs to be market driven. Paying royalties on fair mar- 
ket value is the principle that all parties in the debate accept. The 
issue is how to measure it. The most accurate measure of market 
value will be based on arm’s-length prices actually received. 

Second, it recognizes that value is added after oil and gas is pro- 
duced. Various steps and processes are required to deliver crude oil 
and natural gas to its final destination that add value to the prod- 
uct. Adding value requires investment, results in cost and neces- 
sitates a market rate of return. It is no more appropriate to impose 
royalties on costs downstream of the lease, including downstream 
marketing costs, than it is to impose royalties on the cost of oper- 
ating a gasoline station. Both add value to the product. Neither re- 
quires investment by the lessor. Neither is related to the lessor’s 
mineral rights. 

Third, it is perceived by all parties as providing fairness and eq- 
uity to the Federal Government, state governments, producers, op- 
erators, marketers and refiners. If some parties do not believe they 
are being treated fairly, the credibility of the system will suffer, 
compliance will be reduced, investment and production will fall and 
the approach will have failed. 

Fourth, it avoids economic distortion. Any government mandated 
approach that produces an inappropriate royalty value will distort 
investment and production decisions. This could occur if the effec- 
tive royalty rate exceeds the contractual royalty rate with the use 
of a methodology that overstates market value. 

Because it is market based, an RIK program at or near the lease 
meets each of these policy objectives. That is, by being responsive 
to market-driven changes and prices, it will capture the full value 



68 


for Federal royalty purposes without a government induced distor- 
tion in investment choices. 

Because the committee is not yet considering specific legislation, 
it is impossible to draw any firm conclusions about Federal budget 
effects other than to observe that the ultimate design matters 
greatly in achieving revenue neutrality. I would now like to men- 
tion a few of the more important design issues that matter for 
scorekeeping purposes. 

First, does the proposal change current law? If legislation simply 
provides additional options to MMS, it is unlikely to be scored by 
CBO. 

Second, will the RIK program be mandatory or voluntary? Score- 
keepers are unlikely to score a voluntary program where MMS can 
choose which production to take in kind, because it can largely do 
that without legislation. They would likely score legislation allow- 
ing lessees to choose the RIK leases as causing a revenue loss. A 
well-designed, mandatory system avoids both results and would be 
scored. 

Third, does the program create value for the Federal Govern- 
ment? Additional value can be created in a variety of ways, includ- 
ing allowing greater volumes to be aggregated, capturing a share 
of the value added by moving production downstream and cap- 
turing the benefits from increased competition. If these can be 
quantified by the scorekeepers, they will be scored. 

Fourth, how will pipeline transportation costs be determine? Oil 
pipeline tariff rules are in a state of flux, and that makes it dif- 
ficult for the scorekeepers to develop a current law budget baseline. 

All I can say today is that the revenue impact of this issue is far 
from clear, and CBO must develop an official position on current 
law. Until we reach that point, the committee should carefully con- 
sider its policy objectives and work with CBO to see how they will 
score the issue. It is premature to simply conclude that pipeline 
transportation charges will result in a revenue loss. 

I would like to make two other quick observations. The com- 
mittee should focus on the net revenue impact of the comprehen- 
sive program. Any legislation will likely include revenue raising 
and losing provisions. Simply observing that one feature causes a 
revenue loss is not by itself a problem. A budget problem occurs 
only if aggregate losses exceed aggregate gains. 

The other point is administrative cost savings will benefit both 
the U.S. and the states. Half the onshore oil and gas program cost 
savings under an RIK program will be shared with the states. 
Costs are minimized by a program that applies uniformly to all 
production. The states would get no cost reduction benefit from an 
RIK program just in the CCS. 

In conclusion, a well-designed, mandatory RIK program has sig- 
nificant potential to increase economic efficiency, maintain Federal 
and state revenues, reduce controversy and be regarded as a fair 
approach for the Federal and state governments, lessees and the 
nation’s taxpayers. It is possible for the committee to design an 
RIK program that applies to all production on Federal lands, on- 
shore and offshore, for oil and for gas, it is in the aggregate at least 
revenue neutral. 

Thank you. 



69 


[The prepared statement of Mr. Smith may be found at end of 
hearing.] 

Mr. Thornberry. Thank you, sir. And if — the Subcommittee will 
stand in recess while we go vote right quick. This is a vote on Mur- 
tha-Tauzin amendment, and we should be back shortly. 

[Recess.] 

Mrs. CuBiN. This Subcommittee will come to order. I apologize 
for not being here. We always have conflicts while we are trying 
to do work the last few weeks of the session, so I do appreciate all 
of you being here. Thank you for your testimony for those of you 
who have already given your testimony, and I would like to call on 
Timothy Cohelan to give us his testimony at this time. 

STATEMENT OF TIMOTHY COHELAN, ESQUIRE, COHELAN & 

KOURY 

Mr. Cohelan. Thank you very much. Madam Chairman. Today 
I would like to focus in a general sense by way of background on 
the concerns that, that I have identified based upon my observa- 
tions of the upstream and downstream markets. It appears that 
the, the deliberations and the discussion concerning the propriety 
of this RIK system is appearing in a series of market shifts that 
make it more difficult to, to analyze. It appears that again looking 
at California there has been a substantial consolidation of the 
downstream, that is from the refinery level to the street. Those 
trends basically include the consolidation of refinery ownership, 
the, the use of supply and exchange agreements and term sales in 
a way that has the effect of balancing off crude oil capacity as 
against market share. 

And finally, there is a relationship with branding and branded 
marketing that as we sit here today has resulted in California in 
95 percent of the motor gasoline being sold through seven or eight 
entities. There is a merger pending between the Shell and Texaco 
downstream operations that would mean seven. So we have a sub- 
stantial consolidation of the entities that would be in the market- 
place to purchase crude oil. 

California’s experience, I understand, is, is one that, that is, is 
similar in overall trends to that nationally. There is a national 
trend apparent to move toward refinery rationalization. Refinery 
rationalization as a process is one in which surplus refining capac- 
ity is generally aligned in a closer manner with the downstream 
markets. To the extent that this particular condition continues in 
the United States as a whole, it has implications for the marketing 
of crude oil. 

In California, again returning to California, there has been an 
additional concentration of upstream. Upstream again are the, are 
the producing, producing properties both offshore and domestic. 
The ownership, as I think I mentioned in my, in my statements, 
the ownership mergers of upstream producing properties are going 
to result very soon in about 60 percent of the crude oil produced 
in California being marketed by just three companies. 

Our unique situation in California may also apply in the sense 
that our crude oil reaches the markets. Again, the markets are pri- 
marily these refineries and are fewer of them. Basically, what hap- 
pens is that the refineries will buy domestic and Alaska North 



70 


Slope crude oil for use in refining and manufacturing gasoline for 
sale. The decisions that are going to be made in California then are 
going to be made by those refineries. They are going to be — to the 
extent there is going to be fewer of them in the Northern and 
Southern California marketplaces, and to the extent that there is 
common ownership, it is going to be less of a competitive market. 
Well, that has a lot of implications for, for anyone that is talking 
about attempting to use a market mechanism, because when you 
look at a market mechanism as a substitute for something that 
seems to be working now, you got to ask yourself how many sellers 
there are and how many buyers there are, how they interact and 
what you are going to use to assign a value to that. 

Basically, in California again on the downstream basis, we have 
what the economists call an oligopoly. That is a small number of 
sellers in a market. We have had, in my opinion, there have been 
anticompetitive characteristics that will be discussed in a civil ac- 
tion in, in the California court system. But the implication is that 
the decisionmaking for crude oil domestically in these markets will 
be made in a different way than it has been in the past. There are 
simply fewer refiners to participate in this market. All of our small 
refiners in California have been unable to make the conversions to 
manufacture motor gasoline, and so they are either providing feed 
stocks in some limited situations for other refiners, or they are en- 
tirely out of business, such as the Power Refinery which could not 
start. 

So the larger companies, the larger manufacturers with the, with 
the larger refineries are in a position now where they make all 
those decisions, and their purchasing agents for crude oil are the 
ones, the traders that will be making these very important deci- 
sions with regard to what prices are paid. On natural gas, I would 
suggest that what I have read and, and learned from the regu- 
latory authorities in California is that that is a different market- 
place. There may be things about the commingling nature of, of 
natural gas royalties that make it a fairer measure. There is appar- 
ently other interactions in market centers that have been estab- 
lished that may make that a better candidate for some kind of an 
RIK approach. 

But I would like to, if nothing else, point out how dangerous I 
think it might be to adopt a national, a national policy without 
looking at the implications in local markets. The second major 
point I would like to make is you are talking about a moving tar- 
get. Every day there are new mergers downstream and upstream, 
and the marketplaces in which you are going to place the govern- 
ment under such a program is changing drastically. And finally, 
your review, in my humble opinion, should be done with your fidu- 
ciary duty hat on, and you ought to have very substantial and com- 
pelling reasons that the taxpayers and the, and the people who are 
ultimately receiving this benefit are going to be better off as a pol- 
icy, and we ought to go a little farther than just identifying admin- 
istrative burden. 

Thank you very much for inviting me here today, and I will be 
available for questioning. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Cohelan may be found at end of 
hearing.] 



71 


Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you for your testimony. I would like to wel- 
come Mr. Neufeld from my home state of Wyoming and ask if you 
would please present us your testimony now. 

STATEMENT OF BOB NEUFELD, VICE PRESIDENT, ENVIRON- 
MENT & GOVERNMENT RELATIONS, WYOMING REFINING 

COMPANY 

Mr. Neufeld. Thank you, Madam Chairman, members of the 
Committee. My name is Bob Neufeld. I am the Vice President of 
Environment & Governmental Relations for Wyoming Refining 
Company. I am here today because I want to tell the committee 
about how the Minerals Management Service is driving my com- 
pany toward bankruptcy, is inflicting serious damage on other 
small refiners in the country and is destroying a Congressionally 
authorized program that has been operating successfully since 
1946. 

I think the committee would like to hear what I have to say, be- 
cause our experience with the Minerals Management Service and 
the currently authorized small refiner royalty-in-kind program will 
shed some new perspective on why 20/20 hindsight, armchair quar- 
terbacking, second-guessing and post-hoc valuations have no place 
in the determination of the value of Federal crude oil and will lead 
you to the common sense conclusion that the only fair and equi- 
table way to really know that you are getting market value for 
your oil is to market the oil. 

Wyoming Refining Company is a small 12,500 barrel a day refin- 
ery in Newcastle, Wyoming. We are, nevertheless, the largest pri- 
vate employer in Weston County, Wyoming. We provide about 50 
percent of the motor fuel supply for the Black Hills region of Wyo- 
ming and South Dakota, and over the last, I would say, 10 years 
or longer, we have provided about 90 percent of the jet fuel supply 
for Ellsworth Air Force Base in Rapid City, South Dakota. Our de- 
mise would have serious implications for that region of the country 
in terms of availability of refined motor fuel products and possibly 
national defense implications as well. 

The royalty-in-kind program in which we participate was author- 
ized by Congress in 1946, and it operates this way. When the Sec- 
retary of Interior determines that adequate supplies of crude oil 
are not available to small refiners, the royalty is taken in-kind 
from select leases and sold to small refiners. And historically, that 
has been at prices reported by the producer. The purpose of this 
is to be sure that large, vertically integrated oil companies do not 
have exclusive access to Federal crude oil and that small refiners 
are around to provide a stable supply of national defense fuel sup- 
plies. 

We have been in the program since about 1980, and historically 
over the last 10 years, it has provided about 40 percent of our 
crude oil supply. And everything was fine until 1995, when we got 
a demand letter from the Minerals Management Service that said 
we have audited the producer, we think the producer has under- 
valued the oil that we sold you between 1987 and 1992, (that is as 
much as 8 years prior to the letter) and because the producer, we 
think, undervalued the oil, you owe us another $2.5 million. 



72 


We could not understand how we could owe $2.5 million for 
somebody else’s alleged mistake, and we filed an appeal bond to ap- 
peal the matter to the Minerals Management Service director. 
The — we have subsequently learned that other leases from which 
we purchase royalty oil are under review and that at the present 
count, we may owe another $4.5 million. Our banks have told us 
that if that letter, demand letter issues, we will be taken involun- 
tarily into bankruptcy. 

The lessons to be learned from this are threefold. No. 1, we think 
the damage that is being done is that the Minerals Management 
Service has denied us our opportunity to cancel the contract. When 
we receive a delivery of oil, and then the invoice comes 45 days 
later, we have to pay for that oil, but if we do not like the price, 
we can cancel future deliveries. But if we do not find out what the 
real price of the oil is going to be until 8 years after the delivery, 
we have no chance to cancel those deliveries. They forced us to pur- 
chase oil. Their position is they can force us to purchase oil we 
would not otherwise purchase, and in fact, we would have refused 
delivery on. 

Secondly, and it is what is most egregious about this, is that we 
have evidence, and it is clear from the case against the producer, 
that MMS suspected the prices that it was billing us for on this oil 
were incorrect as early as 2 — 1 year into our audit period, as early 
as early 1988 or 1990 — 1989, excuse me. Nevertheless, even though 
they suspected that the prices that the producer were reporting 
might be incorrect, they continued to repeat those prices in our in- 
voice and continued to sell us oil. In other words, they stood back 
and watched us continue to buy this oil when they should have 
known that it was increasing our contingent liability and our expo- 
sure under a future audit of the producer. 

And third, and this one is almost as egregious as the second, is 
that we spent somewhere in the neighborhood of $250,000, which 
is a big amount for a company of 95 employees, trying to defend 
the producer’s valuations in this matter. MMS has said: It does not 
matter what your evidence is. We had a case over here with the 
producer where we did the audit, and that is where we determined 
what the value is, and we are going to bind you to it. So appar- 
ently, MMS has determined that there is, in fact, an exemption to 
the due process clause of the Constitution for small refiners who 
are allowed to unknowingly purchase oil that they could not afford 
and would not have otherwise purchased. 

My conclusion is that we think that MMS is confused as to 
whether or not it is selling oil or collecting royalty, and it cannot 
do both. If it is going to sell oil, it has to do it in an arm’s-length 
transaction. That is not what is happening here. Every purchase 
that we make under this program is a contingent liability. There 
must be some finality in the price of oil when it is sold. You cannot 
go on for ever and ever knowing that, not knowing what the price 
is going to be. The consequences go beyond the producers. It goes 
to our consumers and to our employees. And again, I would remind 
you that the only way — we feel that the only way to know what the 
market value of the oil is is to take the oil and market it. 

Madam Chairman, one final comment. I would like to say that 
Gary-Williams Refining, Age Refining of Texas, Placid Refining of. 



73 


of Texas and Louisiana and Giant Industries have authorized me 
to say they concur in my remarks and have added, given me some 
additional testimony statement that they would like to have sub- 
mitted to the record. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Neufeld may be found at end of 
hearing.] 

Mrs. CuBiN. Without objection, it will be so ordered. 

I thank the panel for their testimony, and now we will go to the 
questioning portion of the hearing. I want to remind the members 
that according to the Committee Rule 3(c), we have a 5-minute 
limit on our questioning and ask that they will hold to that as 
much as they can, and then if their questions are not all asked and 
answered, and members want a second round of questioning, then 
we will grant that as well. 

So to begin questioning, I will call on the Ranking Member, Mr. 
Romero-Barcelo. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. Thank you. Madam Chair. I thank the 
panel for their testimony and for helping us try to figure out some- 
thing, what is the best that we can do as far as the — and the states 
are concerned. And I believe that each one of you would agree that 
even though there, while there are many benefits associated with 
going to a royalty-in-kind program, that there are also risks that 
must be recognized and which should be resolved before imple- 
menting such a radical change. And which one would each, each of 
you believe it to be the greatest risk associated with a national in- 
kind program? And can we go from left to right and start over 
here? 

Mr. Henderson. I am sorry, your question was? 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. Which do you believe that the greatest 
risk that would be associated with, in a national in-kind, a royalty- 
in-kind program? Or, or maybe you do not accept that there are 
any risks at all. If you do, which one you think is the greatest risk? 

Mr. Henderson. I, I cannot speak from, from the U.S. perspec- 
tive, and I can just give you an indication of what I saw happen 
in Canada over the last 3 years. One of the biggest concerns that 
the, the government had in, in maintaining the in-kind system was 
in fact that it was not achieving market value for its crude. I think 
from that perspective, that is why it went to an agency basis and 
the pooling of revenue concept so that would, in fact, ensure that 
it was receiving market value. Together with our contracts, they 
have benchmarks built in to, to test against market, general mar- 
ket prices. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. Thank you. Ms. Brian. 

Ms. Brian. I think that is similar to my comment. I think that 
by far the biggest risk is that we would then think we fixed the 
problem and moved on, and we in fact would not have done any- 
thing toward fixing the problem in the government getting market 
value for its crude. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. Thank you, Ms. Brian. Mr. Rorschach. 

Mr. Rorschach. I, I do not, I do not see any very big risks. The 
only, only problem I see is in some areas, and I am not familiar 
with, with Federal leases, in small Federal leases, if there are such 
thing, that it might, a royalty-in-kind program might be a problem, 
because it would be very difficult to, to aggregate crude so it could 



74 


be taken in-kind. In large leases, no problem there at all. So the 
only, only problem or a risk, if you want to call it that, would be 
in, in small leases, small in area. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. Thank you, Mr. Rorschach. Mr. Roth- 
schild. 

Mr. Rothschild. I think it is the problem of having one shoe fit- 
ting all sizes, and I think the, as my testimony made clear, while 
an royalty-in-kind program may be appropriate, may work well in 
some areas, it may be horrible in others. And therefore, I think the 
idea of having a mandatory program is inappropriate, and I think 
a structured program that applies it in the right places and not in 
the wrong places probably makes more sense. 

And second, I think the irony here is all of a sudden we are, you 
know, we are trying to get the government out of the oil business, 
as we are in selling off Naval petroleum reserves, and all of a sud- 
den here, a national program, if it is mandatory, would put the 
government in a, in a huge way into the oil business, and I think 
you got to consider that as well. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. Thank you, Mr. Rothschild. Mr. Smith. 

Mr. Smith. Thank you. My, my reaction would be that I would 
be concerned if we moved too quickly without giving consideration 
to the operational design of the program. There are an awful lot 
of details that must be addressed in looking at this kind of program 
that need to be worked through very carefully, and I would view 
this as something where the MMS and industry and the committee 
have to work together to get these details right. I think that if that 
cooperation exists and that willingness to work together exists that 
we can come up with a workable program, but the risk is one of, 
of moving too fast or not working on, together with good faith to 
try to resolve these many issues that, in fact, do have to be consid- 
ered carefully. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. Thank you, Mr. Smith. Mr. Cohelan. 

Mr. Cohelan. Yes, very briefly, I think the, the major risk is 
that there would be a substantial revenue loss. The revenue loss 
would then require continued public discussion. Continued public 
discussion would revisit. There would be new hearings. There 
would be a re-examination. Following up on what Mr. Smith said, 
if the appropriate time and consideration is given, given, including 
but not limited to the differences in geographic markets and the 
hardship cases that you are hearing about here today, then I think 
you can minimize that. But a revenue loss by a precipitous enact- 
ment of a national mandatory RIK is something that would just oc- 
casion a continued debate by the representatives of the public and 
so on. 

The fact that there is a dispute today is a function of their dis- 
agreement over valuation. We all like to see disputes minimized. 
We have a civilized society and a good governmental structure 
where we resolve disputes in a focused and intelligent way, and our 
system of government is better at it than any other. We should not 
run away from this just because there is disputes. There should 
be — hard cases generally make bad law. Somebody ought to be 
looking at, at the administrative processes and problems that 
somebody like Mr. Neufeld is having and then make a determina- 
tion whether you have a sufficient degree of administrative relief 



75 


in the system. But when you look at 140,000 barrels a day as an 
example of national production, and then you look at a small refin- 
ery as a, as a focal point for a description of a very large problem, 
what you really want to do is, is help those people in, in their indi- 
vidual circumstances and assist them in a systematic way that 
does not require you to re-engineer the whole system. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. Thank you, Mr. — Mr. Neufeld. 

Mr. Neufeld. From the other side of the fence as a purchaser 
of the crude oil, we cannot see any risks in an RIK program that 
match the risks involved in the current policy of deliver and re- 
price. We would like to be sure, however, that small refiners con- 
tinue to have an equal opportunity to compete for the oil and per- 
haps a right of first refusal in which the best price, if it is put up 
for bid, the small refiner has an opportunity to match that price 
and purchase it at the same price as the winner. 

Mr. Romero-Barcelo. Thank you very much. 

Mrs. CuBiN. You want to go last? Mr. Duncan, are you prepared 
at this time to ask questions? 

Mr. Duncan. Well, I will tell you, I know the least about this of 
anybody here, but what I want to ask is this. I am — and I did not 
get to hear all of the testimony. But I see that Mr. Rorschach said 
in his testimony today the average Mom and Pop business in the 
oil field is the operation of marginally producing or low-volume 
wells. These operators are now totally over their heads with regula- 
tions and Federal environmental requirements. And I guess my 
question is are we, are we heading in a direction toward more regu- 
lations and more paperwork? Is that what you are concerned 
about? 

Mr. Rorschach. Yes, sir. If, if you go to, if you go to a system 
that is going to require more and more reporting to — and my, my 
thing is if you go to an, an RIK program, you are going to get rid 
of just practically all the reporting that you would have that would 
be required by another system. 

Mr. Duncan. If, if we go to a royalty-in-kind program, you, you 
think that we could do away with a lot of the paperwork? Is that 
what you are saying? 

Mr. Rorschach. I do not think there is any question about it. 

Mr. Duncan. And, and 

Mr. Rorschach. As opposed to some, some of the, as opposed to 
some of the methods that are currently proposed in the proposed 
rules. 

Mr. Duncan. And that would, and that would help the small 
businesses in this 

Mr. Rorschach. I — as I said in my testimony, I think if you, if 
you put anymore burden on, on the, on the marginal well opera- 
tors, they are just going to shut them in, turn them to the right 
and walk away. 

Mr. Duncan. When I see your testimony that you are over your 
head with the environmental requirements, it seems to me that 
these environmental extremists have become the greatest ally to 
extremely big business. And, and they are doing terrible harm to 
small businesses. And, and I would like to see us provide more as- 
sistance to the small businesses, and so I, I like your testimony. 

Mr. Rorschach. Thank you. 



76 


Mr. Duncan. Thank you. 

Ms. Brian. Mr. Duncan, could I, could I 

Mr. Duncan. Thank you, Madam Chair. 

Ms. Brian, [continuing] could I make one comment on, on Mr. 
Duncan’s question please? 

Mrs. CUBIN. Certainly. 

Ms. Brian. Thank you. I just wanted to clarify one point. The — 
what we are talking about is RIK on Federal leases. It is really not 
going to have anything to do with the landowners that we are talk- 
ing about who are suffering. What we are talking about here is 
RIK on, on Federal crude. 

And the second point is that, that what we are talking about is 
an alternative to the current system that everyone hates, going to 
a NYMEX system which is publicly disclosed every day where we 
would have less dispute over value, because we would have the 
market telling all of us when we open the paper exactly what we 
are talking about, so it would actually be resulting in less paper- 
work. 

Mr. Rorschach. If I might respond just briefly, you are talking 
about — ^we — I understand you are talking about Federal leases. It 
has been my experience, and I have been around this oil patch for 
35 years, that anytime a Federal program gets initiated before very 
long, that camel’s nose is into the private owner’s tent. And we 
want to prevent that if we can. 

Mr. Duncan. Well, all I have noticed is that the more you regu- 
late an industry, and the more paperwork you require, the more it 
ends up in the hands of a few big giants. And I do not care what 
the industry is. It, it happens in everything and, and if we go in 
the direction of more and more regulation and more and more pa- 
perwork and more and more red tape, and we have gone way over- 
board on some of these environmental regulations, as you point out 
in your testimony, and if we keep going in that direction, we are 
going to drive all the small guys out of any of these major indus- 
tries. And I will tell you, we are going to be really sorry if we do 
that. 

Mr. Neufeld. Madam Chairman 

Mr. Rorschach. I think you and I are looking through the same 
knothole. 

Mr. Duncan. Thank you. That is all. 

Mr. Neufeld. Madam Chairman, I, I might have an additional 
perspective to add to that if I might — over here on the end. As a 
person who buys Federal crude oil, we found that the process of 
purchasing Federal crude oil under the current system is much 
more complicated than our ordinary purchases. And anything that 
makes it as simple to buy Federal royalty oil as ordinary purchases 
will be worthwhile and an improvement. I am beginning to think, 
after our current experience with the Minerals Management Serv- 
ice, that EPA is like a walk in the park, frankly. 

Mr. Rothschild. Madam Chairman, could I just add one thing? 

Mrs. CUBIN. As long as that light is green, you 

Mr. Rothschild. OK. 

Mrs. CUBIN. [continuing] you all can have this day. I am going 
to ask you, Mr. Smith, as well, as long as that light is green, we 
are still on Mr. Duncan’s time. 



77 


Mr. Rothschild. In Mr. Rorschach’s comments, he pointed out 
that the posted price was too low. That is one of the problems that 
has been occurring in the industry, and the question I would have 
is why that happened. And our view of it is that if you do not have 
very much competition in the industry, he may want to explain 
that. Second, it was the state of Texas, for example, instead of Cali- 
fornia, instead of Alaska, that intervened on behalf of, and particu- 
larly in Texas, on behalf of all the royalty owners, the state and 
the private royalty owners, to collect underpayments. So you know, 
I am very intrigued, and I am also intrigued by Wyoming Refining, 
you know. Here we have a program that is a government effect, a 
government subsidy for small refiners, not one that I would dis- 
pute. But that is what it is, because it keeps them in business. 

So on the one hand, you do have the government playing a posi- 
tive role. On the other one, I can understand why he is upset about 
what has happened. But we ought to keep in mind that the reason 
that the government program is there is to be able to get crude to 
his company which he says is as much as 40 percent of his usage. 

Unidentified Speaker. I will dispute the — comment. 

Mrs. CuBiN. However, he could have, he could have not pur- 
chased that oil and would have not purchased that oil 

Mr. Rothschild. I understand that. 

Mrs. CUBIN. [continuing] had MMS given them any, any indica- 
tion that this might be the end result. I just have to add that in 
trying to be impartial here. 

Mr. John. 

Mr. John. Thank you. Madam Chairman. I, I want to, I want to 
thank the, the committee and the subcommittee for undertaking 
this debate, because I think it is very important. I think everybody 
in this room today, as I look across the audience, believe that, that 
the system that we have in place is, is somewhat burdensome, 
cumbersome and full of paperwork. And I think that the bottom 
line, as we were discussing here, is to balance the risk versus the 
benefits of changing the system. 

Ms. Brian was pretty definitive in her remarks about and her op- 
position to an RIK program. And Mr. — the gentleman from Puerto 
Rico asked her, asked Ms. Brian what do you feel this is obviously 
the, the biggest risk, and you said getting the fair market value of 
it, of our crude and making sure that the Federal and the state 
governments are getting the best price that they possibly can. Do 
you feel that the system intact today does that? 

Ms. Brian. Oh, no, no. First I would like to say I, I specifically 
was not definitive in my opening statements. I hope I did not make 
that point or appear to be definitively opposed to RIK. I am defini- 
tively opposed to a nationwide RIK program. I think, for example, 
in Wyoming, it sounds before this hearing, I have understood that 
there really are a lot of reasons why maybe Wyoming would be a 
great pilot program. So I am not in any way opposed on principle 
to RIK at all. My concern is this, this absolute, nationwide, manda- 
tory program. 

But what I certainly would never do, and I have spent the last 
3 or 4 years actually attacking, is defend the current system. I 
have four reports that we have written showing how the current 
system has failed and how the Federal Government alone has been 



78 


owed as much as $3 billion that has not been collected because of 
the fact that Federal crude has been undervalued. 

So what we really do believe, however, is that the appropriate re- 
sponse is what MMS is proposing. And I frankly find it remarkable 
that I am here saying that, but I think that by moving to a market- 
based valuation system, where we do not have an arbitrary post- 
ing, which is what we exist with now, that is made up. It is not 
in fact the value of the crude that we are getting paid on. If you 
have a NYMEX or something based on the NYMEX, and you take 
into account the transportation costs, which is absolutely reason- 
able. This calculation has been used before and would go on under 
an RIK program too. That would simplify things. We would have 
an open price that everyone would know what it was. It would not 
be under dispute. And then we would be getting towards collecting 
the money that is owed to us. 

Mr. John. Would you agree that the best possible price is the ac- 
tual price at which you could get for that crude? 

Ms. Brian. Not the price the Eederal Government has been get- 
ting. It certainly is not the best possible price, no. 

Mr. John. Well, I think — well, I just believe that we need to pro- 
ceed carefully and slowly, and I think that was reiterated through 
the panel today, about looking at this. My state of Louisiana has 
lots of interest in what is happening here. My district is oil and gas 
and dependent on that industry. So I am, I am taking a look at this 
and, and making sure that we do just the right thing. And, and I 
along with Mr. Duncan just believe that we can make it more sim- 
ple, more — less litigious. In a lot of the, the situations that we run 
into, we are in court battling over the, the prices and, and the well 
and the wellhead and arm’s-length and, and all of the other litiga- 
tion that happens with it. I think that the, the RIK program has 
some merit, and I think we need to move forward on it. 

Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you, Mr. John. Mr. Thornberry. 

Mr. Thornberry. Mr. Smith, let me start with you. You did not 
really get into this much in your testimony, but you have had con- 
siderable experience in the government in estimating the revenue 
effects of, of different things that the Eederal Government has done 
and, and your testimony, I think, as a matter of fact, you are as 
qualified as anybody outside of government to, to look at these 
things. Your testimony said that it all depends on how the program 
is written on, on the revenue coming back into the government. 
But I wanted to ask you, if it is done, is there anything that you 
have seen in what you have looked at that says that there is no 
way to develop an RIK program that will not be at least revenue 
neutral. I mean is there any impediment that is just going to pre- 
vent that from happening? That you have seen. 

Mr. Smith. I think — oh, I am sorry. Well, first of all, before — one 
thing I would like to add, I am here representing now 22 associa- 
tions. The Louisiana Independent Oil and Gas Association has 
signed on to this as well, and I just wanted to get that in the 
record. 

In terms of impediments, no, I do not believe there is any im- 
pediments to a revenue neutral program being designed as long as 
it is carefully considered, and the budget scorekeeping effects of 
specific decisions are taken into account. Can you design an RIK 



79 


program that loses money? Absolutely you can design one that 
loses money. Can you avoid having one that loses money by, loses 
money by carefully designing it? Yes, you can, as you can come up 
with a program that does accomplish your objectives of being at 
least revenue neutral through careful design and consideration of 
its features. 

Mr. Thornberry. Thank you. Now you have heard a great deal 
of discussion from just about every member of the panel today 
about how difficult it is to figure out what the market price of, of 
oil or gas is. And you have heard everything from the government 
coming back 8 years later, or whatever it was, to say that is really 
not what the price was. You have heard the difficulties of some 
people allege that we have not gotten nearly as much as we should 
have in the past. All of these disputes about the market price. Can 
you tell me what would be better to figure out the market price of 
it than actually the market itself? 

Mr. Smith. I do not think there is anything that is better than 
the market itself. That is if we look at an RIK program where a 
significant share of production, in this case one-eighth of onshore 
production, one-sixth of offshore production, is taken in-kind, we 
are going to have a large new supply thrown out to the market- 
place up for bid. And that bidding process is going to result in a 
determination of, in fact, a fair market value price. And so I think 
this is exactly the kind of direction we want to go in to come up 
with the correct measurement of price. 

Mr. Thornberry. Well, why can you not use a one national price 
all across the board that is posted so everybody knows what it is? 
Why does that not work? 

Mr. Smith. Well, I assume you are referring to something like 
NYMEX. And the problem with NYMEX is NYMEX is what is 
called a derivative price. It derives its value from the underlying 
cash markets. It is trying — and it is trying to use that to anticipate 
what prices will be in the future. NYMEX, NYMEX is basically for 
trading on a futures contract for a paper barrel of crude oil. And 
so you are using something that comes from a cash market to fore- 
cast what a paper barrel would be worth in the future, and you are 
trying to turn that around and apply that back to cash markets 
again. You get into this circularity issue which is just sort of a 
crazy approach to trying to establish a price. The real price is what 
a willing buyer will pay a willing seller for a quantity of any prod- 
uct. And I would again say that if you put a large volume of pro- 
duction out for bid, you will get a market price. That will be the 
best measure there is of the, of the true market value of the, the 
product. 

Mr. Thornberry. Thank you. Mr. Cohelan, I notice that, that 
you are with a law firm in San Diego specializing in class action 
suits and have, have done a lot of plaintiffs’ work in litigation over 
the last few years. From, from your background as, as being a trial 
lawyer, do you not think that if we could have an RIK program we 
could at least reduce the amount of litigation that is, is just eating 
us up from the government and private sector fighting about what 
the price of oil is and was? 

Mr. Cohelan. Well, I think the short answer is yes if you, if you 
define it right. You, you mentioned why do we not use the market 



80 


to define the prices. Of course, that is, that is saying a whole 
bunch, because the problem is what is the market. The, the 
NYMEX, use of the NYMEX is an effort, imperfect though it is, to 
establish objective benchmarks. People in good faith, you know, 
using old Adam Smith’s invisible hand are seeking their own inter- 
ests, and that is great. That is what made our country what it is. 
The problem is when you rub up against public policy, you got to 
look more closely at those markets and ask yourself if you are get- 
ting a fair market value. If you had an objective benchmark, and 
you perhaps add some kind of arbitration procedure, you could take 
this stuff out of the courts pretty easily. The reason it is in the 
courts right now is that people of good will on both sides have real 
strong disagreements over what fair market value is, and you get 
around that by getting something out of their hands that defines 
fair market value like a NYMEX or ANS crude price. 

Mr. Thornberry. Well, thank you. It seems, going back to what 
we were just talking about, I do not see how you can improve on 
the actual market. 

Mr. Henderson, let me ask you, before my time runs out, in Can- 
ada, you all have lots of lawsuits? 

Mr. Henderson. No, we do not. 

Mr. Thornberry. And out of the, let us see, you have 36 people 
administering this program as I understood. Was that about what 
it was, your, your testimony? You had about thirty some odd people 
and, and you do not have a bunch of other lawyer — see, the prob- 
lem we have got in, in MMS is we have got a lot of other lawyers 
throughout the Department of Interior that are involved in these 
lawsuits, and it is hard to figure out exactly how many people are 
involved in all of the litigation that arises. Do you all have that 
problem? 

Mr. Henderson. I, I do not see that problem arising in Canada 
where we have got, and you say 30 people. I, I am not quite sure 
what the government has over there now. I know when they made 
the transition to, to the private, private sector, there was about 10 
people that moved over into the private sector with that. 

In terms of lawsuits, the government is administering three con- 
tracts up there with three agents, and when you have that few of 
contracts, and when you have good relationships, you are not going 
to have the problems you see, particularly on the marketing side. 

Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you. We have a vote on the Tauzin amend- 
ment to the ethics legislation that is before the Congress, so we 
will go vote, and we will be right back. Two more people on this 
round of questioning, and then we will see if we need another 
round. 

[Recess.] 

Mrs. CuBiN. I ask the panel to take their seats please. Mr. 
Dooley, would you care to begin your questioning? 

Mr. Dooley. Yes, thank you. I thank all the panelists for coming 
today. 

Mr. Henderson, I was interested in your testimony where you 
talked about in the case of Alberta they considered a number of dif- 
ferent options, and they made a decision really stay with the roy- 
alty-in-kind but went to a privatization in terms of the marketing 
or handling of it I guess I could say. And you also made the state- 



81 


ment that this was done in, in some ways because this was going 
to maximize returns to the government? Is that — did I — is that cor- 
rect or 

Mr. Henderson. When the government went through the, the 
process of reviewing all the options, and it is much the same as you 
are doing now, one of the studies they did and, was a comprehen- 
sive price survey amongst all producers in the province. And to ap- 
preciate the Alberta, it is very concentrated in one location, and 
they were able to undertake this study. The study was subse- 
quently verified by an independent consulting firm. What they 
found is that in applying the models on the cash models to the real- 
izations that the Alberta petroleum marketing was, was getting is 
that the, the proceeds, the market values the APMC was getting 
were slightly higher than under the, the models applied under the 
cash system, and I think that is one of the, the aspects that they 
looked at thinking well, we are pretty close to be revenue neutral. 
Why change a fairly efficient system and go through the, the two 
to three or four or 5 year pain that would probably come in the 
change of such a massive system when we are revenue or slightly 
better than revenue neutral now? 

Mr. Dooley. Um-hum. Ms. Brian, in your testimony, you con- 
tend that if we were to go to an RIK type of approach that just the 
opposite would be what you would expect to happen. And why 
would that be the case? Why would it be different 

Ms. Brian. No, I am not sure I said the opposite would happen. 
One thing I said is — actually, I did not say that I would like to say 
now is that while it sounds that in Canada it really has been a 
very appropriate system, the, the feasibility study that just was re- 
leased by MMS shows there are some significant differences be- 
tween what happens in Canada and what happens in the United 
States. For example, in Canada, the marketers cannot have any 
ownership interest in refineries which clearly is not true in the 
United States. Another point is the Canadian marketers are 
banned from financial hedging. They only receive a flat fee in Al- 
berta. They only have 5 cents a barrel, so that is — these are ele- 
ments to their system that are really very different from anything 
we could imagine happening in the United States. 

But I am not, as I said earlier, I am not in principle opposed to 
RIK. All I am saying is the reason we are looking at changing the 
system is because there has not been a competition at the well- 
head. As, as my colleague from NARO was saying, his, his mem- 
bers were receiving postings which were unacceptable which is 
what we, as Federal landowners, have also been receiving. And by 
going to an RIK system, we are not addressing that fact at all. We 
are simply going to change the subject and continue to be relying 
on this posted 

Mr. Dooley. Now were they not — when they discarded accepting 
the proposal that used basically a benchmark and brought it back 
with some of the, putting in some reductions for different factors, 
were they not in effect evaluating what you are suggesting, and 
they made the determination that this was not going to be as effec- 
tive in terms of maximizing government returns and also giving 
the most accurate reflection of what actual prices are? 



82 


Ms. Brian. I, I do not, I do not quite understand. Who 
rejected 

Mr. Dooley. I thought in Canada you I think basically made the 
statement that you looked at posted prices and reference prices 
that would be adjusted, and I would — ^what I would — my extrapo- 
lation is that an — or a NYMEX or an ANS is a reference price that 
we are talking about adjusting back, and it appears that that is 
one of the programs that was basically considered and then decided 
that the RIK program was going to be better in, in Canada. And 
Mr. Henderson, is that 

Mr. Henderson. Yes, that is correct. The, the benchmark ref- 
erence prices they were looking at were Canadian posting and, and 
a NYMEX-type price. The adjustment I was referring to would 
have been an adjustment done by a survey of producer prices and 
adjusted for not arm’s-length transactions, those type of trans- 
action, exchange transactions, etc. The, the survey prices would 
then come up with an average. The benchmarks would have then 
have been adjusted by that, that adjustment. 

Mr. Dooley. I guess the other issue is, and, Ms. Brian, you made 
a statement that if we, we went to the, the royalty-in-kind is that 
you would see the marketer capturing the what you would, what 
you would expect to be the difference between the posted price and, 
and the market price which you would 

Ms. Brian. Or some part of that. I mean you expect them to 

Mr. Dooley. You would contend they would be different. But if 
you had a situation which would, I would expect if we put in place 
any type of RIK system that allowed for, you know, the competition 
or even the bidding on the oil that the government would, would 
be receiving as royalty, why should we not expect the competitive 
pressures of the marketplace to diminish any excessive returns to 
the marketer? 

Ms. Brian. Because the, the implementation of an RIK system 
would not in any way increase the competition at the wellhead. It 
is, it is just not addressing that issue. We are not getting more peo- 
ple suddenly with pipelines arriving at the Eederal land saying we 
all want to buy the Eederal crude, and we are going to increase the 
posting in order to, because we really want your crude. That — it 
just is not addressing that issue. 

Mr. Dooley. And that is where I guess we go back to, you know, 
the concern that I had that I think that the MMS proposal, the 
new proposal is addressed is that you are in effect, if you make 
that argument, you are then acknowledging that in some respects 
the posted price is different than the market price or the NYMEX 
price 

Ms. Brian. Right. 

Mr. Dooley, [continuing] and that is where the, the fundamental 
issue here is how do we ensure that there is equity in terms of the 
royalty that is being paid, and that royalty should be a function of 
what people are receiving. And I guess I am not sure you can have 
the argument both ways. You know, there is a problem there, if we 
have an imperfect market, you know, maybe there are some rea- 
sons for that. But I mean the whole oil industry is, is somewhat 
of an imperfect market. NYMEX, what happens, you know, when 
OPEC meets and they, they make a, you know, a decision which 



83 


is basically a function of an imperfect market there. NYMEX jumps 
or goes down. That is a function of an imperfect market too, and 
I guess my concern is is what we are trying to ensure is that for 
the oil that is, that we have a royalty that is due that it is fair 
compensation to the government based on the price that is actually 
received. And that is where I, you know, I am struggling with, you 
know, if it is not a royalty-in-kind which would be a direct function 
of what we would hope that that oil, the value of that oil would 
have where it is at, you know, how could we get any better than 
that, I guess? How could we get anything that is any, any more re- 
sponsive to what the real valuation in this particular location? 

Ms. Brian. If you will indulge me for a second, I have, for exam- 
ple, a chart that shows Exxon’s interfield postings where you see 
East Texas, Hawkins, and their prices are down here. These are 
fields where Exxon does not own the land. They have to pay royal- 
ties on it. The postings are pretty low when you compare them here 
to West Texas Sour and, and Yates which is primarily — and the 
irony here is that, in fact. East Texas is closer to the refinery. So 
if you look at what the market should have, what should have hap- 
pened if this were a competitive market is that these prices should 
have actually been higher, because they are worth more with lower 
transportation costs. But this is an example of what we are not ad- 
dressing if we go to RIK. This is going to continue to be happening. 

Mr. Dooley. Um-hum. And I would be interested in getting some 
more of the details of that. I am not familiar with that, that situa- 
tion. 

Ms. Brian. Sure. I am happy to submit this for the record. 

Mr. Dooley. Thank you. 

[The information referred to may be found at end of hearing.] 

Mr. Smith. Could I just ask one question on that? I — my recollec- 
tion — I have not looked at this in a long time. But I thought Haw- 
kins was a much lower gravity field, and so you would expect a dif- 
ferent kind of price relation 

Ms. Brian. It is actually not much lower. There is only about a 
.2 difference. And so you can see, actually, if you really want to 
know what is — what is really interesting is is you can see when the 
Texas suits were filed when suddenly the postings started going up 
almost to the day in, in 1995. Suddenly, the postings started rising 
and, and started to mirror the spot prices. And what I understand 
is that differential, which is relatively small, really is what reflects 
the quality differential. But these enormous differences could not 
possibly be answered by that. 

Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you. And I do apologize again for having 
missed the first part of the hearing when the most of you testified. 
I did read your testimony, and so I have an idea where we are com- 
ing from. I want to say there was, there was some testimony that 
was somewhat inflammatory to me. It, it got my ire up, and par- 
ticularly some from you, Ms. Brian. I was raised in oil patch. I rep- 
resent all of those people that work in the oil and gas industry, and 
all of those people that receive services from the state government 
and all of those people that provide services by the state govern- 
ment and all of those people that work in the state. I do not rep- 
resent oil companies or gas companies, and so any, any implication 
at all or any insinuation that my main goal is not maximizing the 



84 


amount of money that goes into the state treasury and the Federal 
treasury is just simply unfair, and it is wrong. Wyoming, as you 
know, receives more Federal mineral royalties than the next three 
or four states put together. And I am committed to a system that 
collects every single penny that is due to the Federal Government 
and the state government but not one penny more. And 

Ms. Brian. I want to apologize if you misunderstood my point, 
and I think that we are really on the same side. I had no, in no 
way meant to suggest that you did not want to get everything for 
the, the landowners and the people who work in Wyoming. 

Mrs. CUBIN. That is good, and certainly that is the intention of 
the entire subcommittee. We want a program, whether it is 
NYMEX or the program that MMS is proposing or whether it is 
royalty -in-kind, we want the best program that there is. And I 
look — I think about the fact that Americans put a man on the 
moon. Americans have better health care than anybody in the 
world. I do not think this could possibly be — I realize it is com- 
plicated. But I do not think putting an RIK program in place could 
possibly be so complicated that we cannot figure out how to do it 
and how to do it fairly to all the parties involved. 

And certainly, there are problems, and it is so complicated that 
we want to do it right and, and possibly a pilot program in a cer- 
tain area is the thing to do. But, but I think minds that are more 
knowledgeable in this area than mine need to, need to make those 
recommendations . 

I want to start off by talking to — asking Mr. Smith, could you ex- 
pand for me how an RIK program might score? 

Mr. Smith. It, I guess, first of all depends on whether MMS im- 
plements an RIK program along their recommendation, the line of 
their recommendations or whether the committee takes action to 
implement an RIK program. If MMS goes along with its existing 
recommendations and implements a program, it does not score. 
That is, it is not the result of Congressional action. Instead, it is 
the result of powers that the agency has to use today. And so it 
does not create a scorekeeping issue. 

On the other hand, if, if the committee enacts legislation that re- 
quires MMS to undertake certain actions that it would not take ab- 
sent legislation, then it will score. Whether it scores positive or 
negative is, is again a function of the design of the legislation. And 
so at that point, I think you get into the case where the details 
matter greatly. So again, I think that the committee can come up 
with something that is scorable and can be revenue neutral, but it 
does require legislation in order for scorekeeping to become an 
issue. 

Mrs. Gubin. Could you give me some, some more background on 
the implications of mandatory versus a voluntary program? Do you 
have any thoughts on that? 

Mr. Smith. Sure. I mean if, if we have a — well, let us split vol- 
untary into two pieces, and let us assume this is in the context of 
legislation, so it does become a scorekeeping exercise. We have a 
voluntary program where MMS can determine which properties it 
chooses to take and which properties it does not choose to take. I 
believe that would be consistent with their authority under current 



85 


law, and so it then would have no score. CBO would, would not 
score it. 

Now one of the implications of that is if you should do that in 
the context of something like a budget reconciliation bill, the provi- 
sion could be knocked out under the Byrd rule over in the Senate, 
and the House gets very concerned about that, but nevertheless, 
the Byrd rule is very effective in killing legislation where the com- 
mittee is doing something again that the Agency can do already. 
So I think there is a problem there. 

On the other hand, if we have a program that is voluntary from 
the lessee side, then the lessees can in effect cherry pick which 
kinds of properties they want as part of the program, and that will 
trigger a revenue loss. So the only way of getting around this, I 
think, is to have a mandatory program where MMS is required to 
implement the, the program and to design it in such a way that, 
in fact, it will be revenue neutral. At that point, you have got a 
workable program. I think a voluntary program just will not ac- 
complish anything that you can, can honestly work with. 

Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you. Mr. Rorschach, I know that you have to 
leave at 4:20 and it is 4:20. I have one more question, because I 
have the yellow light, and I will be going on into the red. I am 
going to talk to Mr. Neufeld here, but I will be submitting ques- 
tions in writing if you would not mind responding — if all of you 
would not mind responding to those. So if you need to excuse your- 
self, that is fine. 

Mr. Rorschach. I, I would like to make one comment. I do not 
know whether this is particularly germane to the subject, but I 
heard many questions asked about why, why we cannot just use 
the market to determine the market, and I have heard comments 
saying well, there is only one pipeline into the lease, and therefore 
that — well, these people are looking at different leases than I have 
looked at, because most of the leases I have seen, there is no pipe- 
line in there at all. The truck comes in and picks up the oil. And 
I am telling you, there are lots of trucks around. There are lots of 
people who own trucks who are, who are willing to come pick up 
that oil and, and how it happens is the pumper calls the, the truck- 
er and says look, come on out. We got a tank full of oil. And the 
trucker comes out, and the pumper straps out the tank and, and 
off it goes and he leaves him a run ticket. Now there is no pipeline 
involved there, and the market can certainly handle that. 

Mrs. CUBIN. Thank you. 

Mr. Rorschach. Thank you. 

Mrs. CuBiN. Mr. Neufeld, I will be asking this same question of 
Mr. Brown with the MMS, but I want you to, since you are up, 
seems to me that the producers are the ones that are liable for pay- 
ing the royalty. Why in this case is the refiner being charged with 
the royalty retroactively? Do you 

Mr. Neufeld. I, I believe 

Mrs. Gubin, [continuing] what reasons have you been given, or 
do you understand it? It is beyond me. 

Mr. Neufeld. Yes. The Minerals Management Service points to 
a provision in our contract that says that the price of the oil that 
we are charged will be determined under 30 C.F.R. which is a large 
section of the Code of Federal Regulations. Our understanding and. 



86 


and we believe based on, on memos that were written to us by 
MMS, and this is getting into the legal aspects, and I do not want 
to try the case here. But our understanding of that provision is 
that MMS would take the benchmarks in the rules, apply them to 
their oil and reflect that in our invoice. Their interpretation is: no, 
that was not the case. When we said that we agreed to have the 
oil priced under 30 C.F.R., we agreed that when they went back 
and audited the producers, after the fact, that we would be bound 
by those proceedings and agreed to have our prices adjusted ac- 
cordingly. And so it is a difference in interpretation over that sec- 
tion of the contract. 

Mrs. CUBIN. Well, thank you very much all of you for being here 
today. I know it has been a long time, but we do appreciate your 
coming. It is very important to the process, and so if you would like 
to take your leave, that is fine. 

Now I would like to call Mr. Brown from the MMS to please 
come forward to testify. Thank you very much, Mr. Brown, for 
being here. We have a vote coming up maybe in about 20 minutes, 
and so I think if we all stick to the 5-minutes that we are allotted, 
we will have just about the right amount of time, and then we can 
adjourn this hearing, and everyone can be off on their way. So if 
you would like to present your testimony. 

STATEMENT OF ROBERT E. BROWN, ASSOCIATE DIRECTOR, 

MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE, U.S. DEPARTMENT OF 

THE INTERIOR 

Mr. Brown. Thank you. Madam Chairman, members of the sub- 
committee. I appreciate the opportunity to appear today to present 
testimony on the Mineral Management Service’s examination and 
implementation of programs to take oil and gas royalties-in-kind. 
We at MMS are excited to be discussing these issues. It appears 
to us from our recently completed royalty-in-kind feasibility study 
that the exercise of Federal lease rights to take Federal oil and gas 
production share in-kind may offer opportunities to both dramati- 
cally streamline the royalty management process and at the same 
time enhance mineral receipts, if we deliberately and intelligently 
design and implement RIK programs where appropriate. 

Today I will describe our future plans in this area, but first I 
would like to briefly discuss the major results of our feasibility 
study. I ask that my prepared testimony be entered into the record. 

Our final report on the royalty feasibility study was issued just 
about a month ago, and the feasibility study was taken as one of 
a series of MMS initiatives to examine how we can improve our 
royalty management processes through innovation. Additionally, 
we had reported language from the Congress in the last session 
recommending that we undertake studies of the feasibility of roy- 
alty-in-kind programs. The final report is available on our home 
page at www.mms.gov. 

The primary objective was to determine if RIK programs are in 
the best interest of the United States, meaning if they, one, offer 
potential revenue enhancement or neutrality for the Federal treas- 
ury, and two, provide extensive administrative relief for MMS and 
for industry. 



87 


We concluded that RIK programs, if implemented under favor- 
able conditions, could be workable, revenue neutral or positive and 
administratively more efficient for MMS and for industry. What 
are favorable circumstances? Well, we would participate, particu- 
larly in, in gas and downstream marketing and sales, and particu- 
larly again for gas that aggregation would provide supply assur- 
ance which would provide market opportunities for the Federal pro- 
duction, and administrative relief both for us and for the producers. 
Less reporting, less auditing for all parties. 

Now unfavorable conditions which could lead to the program not 
being successful we think should be avoided are if we continue to 
audit the producers’ shares of production. Second, if we required 
MMS to take in-kind everywhere or at the lessee’s discretion. 
Third, if we had to pay above-market transportation rates where 
we encounter nonjurisdictional lines. Fourth, if we had to accept 
RIK volumes that were at less than marketable condition, and 
fifth, RIK on scattered, onshore basins with minimis volumes. 

The report recommends three in-kind pilots. The first is a royalty 
marketing program for the Gulf of Mexico involving natural gas 
which we believe would have a high chance of success if it involved 
substantial volumes and ran for at least 3, if not 5 years and was 
contractually performed by an energy marketer and provided for 
MMS to share in downstream proceeds realized. Although actual 
revenue returns will depend on specific proposals from energy mar- 
keters, we believe that royalty revenues will increase due to in- 
creased aggregation of downstream market. 

Thus, the report recommends pursuing a long-term RIK program 
in the Gulf of Mexico in which substantial volumes of natural gas 
would be marketed and sold by an energy marketer under contract 
with MMS. We stress that before decisions are made to implement 
this program, we need to do detailed economic studies and make 
certain that that leading proposal would, in fact, be revenue neu- 
tral. Implementation would occur if all indications are positive. 

The second recommendation of the report concerns crude oil in- 
kind programs. We had workshops and meetings with energy mar- 
keters which did not produce any clear evidence of revenue en- 
hancements or, for that matter, in some cases revenue neutrality 
from crude oil RIK. But based on our research, we believe that the 
revenue implications continue to be uncertain for oil RIK. Con- 
sequently, we do not endorse widespread implementation. However, 
considering the significant interest on the part of producers, mar- 
keters, and the State of Wyoming, the report concluded that a 
small-scale program for crude oil RIK could be jointly pursued by 
MMS in that state. Similarly, the report notes that the State of 
Texas has interest in RIK, and as a result, the third recommenda- 
tion calls for a joint exploration of options with the state for both 
8(g) leases and Federal offshore leases for oil or gas. 

Regarding future activities, our senior management team at 
MMS has accepted the report and its recommendations. Within the 
next month, we will begin our implementation of the report’s rec- 
ommendations. Our first course is to consult with Congress, which 
we have done with staff and we are doing here today, and consult 
with the states. We sent a formal invitation to Governor Geringer 
of Wyoming and to Commissioner Mauro of Texas to form teams 



88 


to begin implementation. Governor Geringer has responded posi- 
tively and will begin meeting with members of his staff in the near 
future to begin implementation of the pilot. 

We will meet with industry. We have meetings set for next week, 
both the 22nd in Washington and the 24th in Denver, to followup 
on the report and discuss the implementation. And then finally, in- 
reach within our own program explaining to the royalty program 
employees and to the offshore program how these programs will 
work. 

We will soon form an implementation team to pursue the report’s 
recommendations. The team will identify the scope and overall 
framework of the offshore gas in-kind program and will work with 
Texas and Wyoming to do the same for the other pilot. We would 
like to work with industry in developing program details. 

I would like to reiterate that before actual implementation of any 
program, we will conduct detailed economic analysis necessary to 
determine chances for a program’s success. As stewards of a public 
asset, our responsibilities are first and foremost to ensure that the 
public’s assets are wisely managed. 

In closing, I would like to express our cautious optimism that in- 
kind programs may provide us with a great opportunity to resolve 
a difficult area of public lands management in the manner that 
could provide substantial benefits for the regulated industry, MMS, 
and most importantly, the American taxpayer. 

Madam Chairman, this concludes my prepared remarks, and I 
would be pleased to answer any questions your or members of the 
subcommittee may have. 

[The prepared statement of Mr. Brown may be found at end of 
hearing.] 

Mrs. Gubin. Thank you for your testimony. Mr. Thornberry, 
would you like to begin the questioning? 

Mr. Thornberry. Yes, ma’am. Thank you. 

Mr. Brown, were you here through all the prior testimony? 

Mr. Brown. Yes, sir. 

Mr. Thornberry. OK. A couple of points seemed to me that we 
had pretty much universal agreement on. No. 1 is that, that the 
current system is a mess. The second one is that pretty much ev- 
erybody agreed, in principle at least, that royalty-in-kind makes 
some sense. Would you concur that that is kind of a summary of 
where we are generally among people who are interested in this 
issue? 

Mr. Brown. I think that is fair representation of what the people 
in the panel had to say. Some are more cautious about RIK than 
others. 

Mr. Thornberry. Sure. But I have not heard, and this is the sec- 
ond hearing we have had within a couple months, I have not had 
any, heard anybody stand up and defend the current system, and 
I have not heard anybody say that under no circumstances would 
royalty-in-kind make sense. And so what, what that leads me to 
think is now it is a question of working out the details of how it 
is going to work. And I understand that that is, that is an impor- 
tant challenge, and we got to get it right. 

I guess what I am really curious about is what is the commit- 
ment of MMS to sit down with industry folks, others that are inter- 



89 


ested, to work on these details regardless of whether you all think 
it needs to be mandatory or whether Congress ought to impose it 
nationally or how. But, but what is your commitment to sit down 
and work on transportation issues and these, these other things? 

Mr. Brown. Well, I think in regard to the pilots, our commit- 
ment is to sit down and, do that immediately. As Director 
Quarterman testified in July, we will be happy to sit down and 
look at legislative proposals. We are not going to mandate that we 
or commit to agreeing to them, but we would be happy to discuss 
them. 

Mr. Thornberry. Are you all going to have a legislative proposal 
that you are going to send up here for us to look at? 

Mr. Brown. Well, sir, we do not believe that we need legislation 
to carry forward on these programs, and we believe that carrying 
out these cautious pilots should be able to give us indications that 
would lead later to legislative relief if necessary. 

Mr. Thornberry. I understand that, and I understand that, that 
you do not want to commit to supporting something, but you are 
willing to sit down in the meetings next week and, and otherwise 
to work through some of these details with industry and talk about 
how it could work if we were to do something like that. 

Mr. Brown. Certainly. 

Mr. Thornberry. OK. Do you have any idea how many disputes 
MMS is currently involved in now relating to the amount of Fed- 
eral royalty owed, whether they are lawsuits or administrative 
claims of some sort? 

Mr. Brown. Well, one of my areas of responsibility is processing 
the administrative appeals, and we have a docket of some 600, 700 
active appeals. As you remember in the last session, the Congress 
passed legislation, the Royalty Simplification and Fairness Act, 
which requires us to complete the docketing of those cases in 36 
months. We had substantial backlogs in the previous period. We 
are effectively moving to eliminate those. But that would not cap- 
ture all of the disputes. There are other disputes that are farther 
along with the bureau. The Interior Board of Land Appeals, and 
additionally there is litigation, so I could not give you a specific 
number. 

Mr. Thornberry. OK. Let me ask this. One, one of the issues 
that has been discussed is transportation issues, particularly for 
offshore where you have pipelines. As I understand the way it 
works now, royalties are based on a price, and then there is a de- 
duction for transportation costs through the pipeline to get it on- 
shore. 

Mr. Brown. Correct. 

Mr. Thornberry. And it is also my understanding that MMS 
pretty much sets the amount of that deduction. 

Mr. Brown. Well, what occurs on offshore, the pipelines are not 
covered by FERC tariffs, so the actual calculation is done on a cal- 
culation of the amortized cost of the production of the pipeline. So 
there is an audited price. 

Mr. Thornberry. OK. Do you have any idea what the relation- 
ship is between that calculated price and the market price for some 
other company that comes and tries to use that pipeline to bring 
their crude say onto shore? 



90 


Mr. Brown. Well, in this case it is a nonjurisdictional pipeline 
that is privately owned, and well, we would let them deduct their 
actual costs for those firms. In other words, if another firm uses 
that 

Mr. Thornberry. So 

Mr. Brown. If another firm uses that pipeline, that firm would 
deduct its actual cost, because it had engaged in an arm’s-length 
agreement to transportation. It is only in the case of someone who 
owns the pipeline and would essentially be setting the price for 
themselves that we do that calculating. 

Mr. Thornberry. And do you know what, if one oil company say 
wants to use a owned pipeline, you set the cost for the government 
to be reduced from the government’s share. Do you know what the 
relationship is between the market price and that generally and 
what the price that you all set 

Mr. Brown. I would, I would. 

Mr. Thornberry. My understanding is it is lower, and I, I won- 
der if you, if you 

Mr. Brown. If the market price is lower than what we 
calculate 

Mr. Thornberry. That you are, that you are lower. 

Mr. Brown. We may very well be. But that is where we are talk- 
ing about amortizing their costs, and then they have to make a 
profit when they are selling that transportation to someone else. So 
in the first case, it is derived simply from their cost, and in the sec- 
ond case, they are deriving a profit over and above their costs. 

Mrs. CuBiN. Everyone agrees that if we have, in order to meas- 
ure the success of an RIK program, we have to know the costs that 
MMS currently incurs in enforcing what we have right now. When 
Director Quarterman was in front of the committee in July, I asked 
her for a summary of the Federal Government’s cumulative cost on, 
associated with audit and enforcement of royalty obligations includ- 
ing, but not limited to, other Department of the Interior costs such 
as workload at the Office of Hearings and Appeals and the Justice 
Department resources spent in litigation. We have not received 
that information yet. Would you have any idea when we will? 

Mr. Brown. I will make certain you get it as soon as possible. 
Madam Chairman. I regret that we have not provided that yet. 

[The information referred to follows:] 


Questions from Chairman Cabin 

1. In questions posed to MMS following the July 31, 1997 R-I-K hearing, 
I asked for a summary of the Federal Government’s cumulative costs asso- 
ciated with audit and enforcement of royalty obligations, including other 
Department of the Interior costs, such as the workload at the Office of 
Hearings and Appeals, and Justice Department resources spent in litiga- 
tion on these issues. MMS did not provide this estimate, that I can see, in 
any of the follow-up answers received Septemher 17, 1997. The Suh- 
committee would like to have this information in order to get a better han- 
dle on the real costs government-wide associated with the current valu- 
ation system. 

The Department’s costs for audit and enforcement of royalty obligations total ap- 
proximately $28 million for fiscal year 1997. This includes Royalty Management 
Program audit and enforcement costs of about $26 million, Interior Board of Land 
Appeals costs of $150 thousand, Office of the Solicitor costs of $400 thousand, and 
MMS Appeals Division costs of $1.3 million. As you may know, litigation on behalf 
of the Department of the Interior is handled by the Department of Justice. We are 
not in a position to provide the Department of Justice costs associated with litigat- 



91 


ing the issues. It is our understanding, however, that the Department of Justice 
does not routinely calculate the costs of individual cases, and therefore does not 
keep records in the form you request. 

We caution that even under the best-designed R-I-K program not all litigation 
costs would disappear. Litigation cost savings would depend on the type and scope 
of oil or gas R-I-K programs implemented, and litigation costs would continue for 
Indian, solid, and geothermal minerals that are not taken in kind. Further, expected 
reductions in auditing costs would be deferred for at least 6 years as auditors com- 
plete reviews of prior periods. 

Mrs. CUBIN. Because certainly that is very important for us to, 
to know before we proceed. 

Mr. Brown. It is, in some cases, difficult for us to derive what 
the Justice Department spends. But we, we should be able to give 
you a calculated cost. 

Mrs. Gubin. An educated estimate at any rate. CRS did a report 
on the Alberta RIK program in relation to potentially one in the 
United States, and it said that there were two factors that seemed 
to contribute to the Alberta RIK programs that, that have caused 
it to be successful, that is large oil volumes and low-cost transpor- 
tation. And one thing I wanted to know is do you think that the 
pilot project in Wyoming will be a true indicator of whether or not 
an RIK program nationally will be successful? 

Mr. Brown. Well, that is a two-stage question. Madam Chair- 
man, if I could first address the Alberta situation. As we under- 
stand the province of Alberta, the — ^we have large concentrations of, 
of volume, of production with limited refining capability. That is, 
that there is less refining capability in the province than there is 
production. And so that crude has to seek a market somewhere 
else, and it seeks the market in the, in Chicago and in Ontario and 
others — much of what the marketer does — the uplift that the mar- 
keters are achieving they are achieving through moving that crude 
to those markets. 

In Wyoming, there is a certain similarity in that there is limited 
refining capability for the production in Wyoming, and there is only 
certain places that one can take that, and perhaps by marketing 
that crude beyond those refineries and by aggregating the volumes, 
we can achieve the same kind of results as have been achieved in 
Alberta. The state of Wyoming is very sanguine about the possi- 
bility of that result, and we are a little skeptical, but we are willing 
to attempt to make certain that we do everything to make it work. 

Mrs. CuBiN. Well, the reason I asked that question is because if 
we really wanted to try to draw some sort of similarity to the Al- 
berta experience, the Alberta province is approximately 255,000 
square miles with a pipeline infrastructure that reaches to all of 
the corners of the province. This is just less than the total square 
miles in Wyoming, Utah and Idaho combined and less than the 
Gulf of Mexico. So why not expand the, the pilot program if 

Mr. Brown. Well, because of the interest of the state we have 
chosen Wyoming. As you pointed out earlier to the earlier panel, 
the onshore states derive significant incomes from production on 
oil, of oil and gas on, on Federal lands. The State of Wyoming is 
interested in RIK and has expressed an interest, so many of the 
other states have expressed no interest or have, have said that 
they are not, they are opposed to such a program. We did not think 
that we could go forward with an RIK program that, that poten- 



92 


tially had some risk without the concurrence of the state who is de- 
riving revenue from that production. So the Wyoming’s interest is 
primarily the reason why we are moving forward in the Wyoming 
area. 

Mrs. CUBIN. But you 

Mr. Brown. In addressing the second question, in the Gulf of 
Mexico, there is substantially more refining capability in Louisiana 
and Texas than there is production in the, from the Gulf of Mexico. 
There is gas, oil being brought — excuse me, oil being brought in 
from overseas through — and through Houston and Corpus Christi 
to be refined there so that we do not have the same — it is the re- 
verse of the circumstance in Alberta where you have large volumes 
of crude production with limited refining capability, and the, in the 
Gulf of Mexico, you have, you have more refining capability than 
you have production. 

Mrs. Gubin. In the followup question that was submitted by Rep- 
resentative Romero-Barcelo after the July 31st hearing, you out- 
lined plans for the MMS to proceed on RIK, and specifically, you 
mentioned preparing detailed requirements, program strategies 
and, and analysis of impacts. We have not seen that yet either. Do 
you have any idea when that will be complete? 

Mr. Brown. We have not completed it yet. Now that is the next 
stage right now. What we have done is complete the feasibility re- 
port, and the next thing we have to do is develop implementation 
plans. And, and part of our, the recommendation in the report is 
that, that we would be using a different approach than we did at 
our previous pilot which we specified very clearly the how, how the 
marketer, where, where they were to take the production, which 
was at the lease, and, and what they were to do with it. Very speci- 
fied classic government kind of contract. 

What we are proposing to do here is take a different approach 
and say that we would make available to qualified energy market- 
ers the specifics of what production we intend to take and ask them 
to give us a business case solution for how they would market that 
gas and, and how we would share in the profits that were derived 
from that marketing. And the one that gives us the best business 
case and the largest result would be the marketer that got the con- 
tract. So that would require — our analysis will have to go forward 
until we actually get to the point of receiving bids from these folks 
to really know what the results would be. 

Mrs. Gubin. One last question. While I, I am pleased that Wyo- 
ming will be used as a pilot or a test on this issue, I still cannot 
help but be concerned that, that the results of the pilot program 
really may not be a good reflection of what might happen nation- 
ally. If in fact the program in Wyoming turned out not to be profit- 
able for the government because we do not — I am not aware of the 
major lawsuits, at any rate, like have gone on in California, and 
certainly those costs would not be in the Wyoming model, and the, 
the volume of oil that Alberta is dealing with would not be in the 
model, and we all agree that larger volumes give a better profit. 
So are — do you think that absent legislation that MMS would use 
a not real successful program in Wyoming to decline any action 
moving forward on RIK? 



93 


Mr. Brown. Well, I would have to assume that it would depend 
on the reasons why it was not successful. Clearly, if it was unsuc- 
cessful because of peculiarities of the market that we did not an- 
ticipate, that should not be a reason why we would not go forward 
with RIK. It might not be unlike the circumstances of our 1995 
pilot where clearly, we did not understand the way in which the 
market operated. We created a pilot that as one of, I believe Mr. 
Thornberry said was really an absolute wrong way to conduct a 
pilot. We would not do it again. And if we — if that was the reason 
why we were unsuccessful, then certainly that should not be a bar 
for us moving forward. If the reason we were unsuccessful was pe- 
culiarities of the Wyoming market, then again, I do not think that 
would necessarily be a bar to moving forward with the in-kind pro- 
grams. 

Mrs. CUBIN. Well, thank you very much. I do appreciate the tes- 
timony. It has been very valuable. We will keep the record open for 
10 days if there are additional comments. And if there is no further 
business, then this Subcommittee is adjourned. 

[Memorandum from Mr. Condit may be found at end of hearing.] 
[Memoranda from Mr. Humphries may be found at end of hear- 
ing.] 

[Statement of Mr. DiBona may be found at end of hearing.] 
[Whereupon, at 4:47 p.m., the Subcommittee was adjourned.] 
[Additional material submitted for the record follows.] 



94 


Prepared statement of the American Petroleum Institute, submitted by 

Charles DiBona 

The American Petroleum Institute (API) is a trade association with over 350 
members engaged in all aspects of the petroleum industry. API respectfully submits 
this statement of its views for the record on the Royalty-in-Kind issue for oil and 
gas valuation. 

The American Petroleum Institute supports the development of a Royalty-in-Kind 
(RIK) program as an alternative to the present royalty valuation rules for crude oil 
and natural gas production from Federal leases, and to the Minerals Management 
Service (MMS) proposed rule for the valuation of crude oil production. Properly 
crafted, an RIK program would reduce valuation uncertainty and would also reduce 
administrative costs to both government and oil and gas producers. Also, an RIK 
program can be revenue neutral, while reducing government administrative costs, 
thereby yielding a net increase in revenues to the government. 

In 1988, the MMS adopted its current regulations governing royalty payments for 
oil and gas produced on Federal leases. Under this rule, oil and gas royalties are 
based on the value of production which is measured by either the gross proceeds 
accrued to the lessee, or benchmarks such as posted prices. The MMS audits the 
valuation estimates submitted by the companies and challenges estimates when the 
agency believes errors have been made. This process has been characterized by nu- 
merous and costly disputes, both for the MMS and for the companies that must doc- 
ument and defend their valuation estimates. This is why both the companies and 
MMS have concluded that the current royalty system has many problems, and 
should be changed. 

An alternative to the present royalty valuation system is an RIK program in 
which the government takes its royalties “in kind” (in physical units) and sells its 
royalties in the open market. In 1995, MMS conducted a pilot RIK program for nat- 
ural gas production in the Gulf of Mexico. The aim of the program was to test an 
RIK program operationally and to determine its impact on Federal revenues. MMS 
concluded initially that the program appeared to reduce revenue, but API and oth- 
ers have indicated that MMS’ analysis was incomplete and inconclusive. 

In January 1997, MMS proposed a new valuation rule for crude oil. Among other 
things, this proposed rule would scrap the existing rule’s reliance on benchmarks, 
such as posted prices, for valuing production in non-arm’s length transactions. In 
its place, lessees would be required to use an index valuation scheme involving New 
York Mercantile Exchange (“NYMEX”) or Alaska North Slope (“ANS”) prices ad- 
justed for locations and product quality. API responded to this proposed rulemaking 
in detail, identifying several serious flaws. API also stated that the MMS should 
fully explore royalty-in-kind as an alternative to the proposed index-based scheme. 

Since both the existing royalty valuation rules and the MMS-proposed alternative 
are problematic, many lessees have come to view RIK as an alternative. Accord- 
ingly, in Spring 1997, API joined with several industry trade associations to form 
an RIK Workgroup to determine if the industry could develop a workable RIK pro- 
gram. Joining API in this effort were several other industry associations, including 
the Independent Petroleum Association of America (IPAA), the Domestic Petroleum 
Council (DPC), the Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association (MCOGA), the National 
Ocean Industries Association (NOIA), and a number of state and regional organiza- 
tions. The Workgroup developed six basic principles that all members, including 
API, agreed should govern any RIK program. API supports these principles, as key 
components of any RIK program. 

The first principle calls for the reduction of administrative and compliance bur- 
dens while providing the opportunity for Federal and state governments to meixi- 
mize their respective revenues. The MMS should have the ability to optimize value 
by aggregating volumes, determining the most favorable sales location, arranging 
transportation, and negotiating the terms and conditions of the sale. The potential 
for increased revenues would require the MMS to manage the risks and incur the 
costs associated with marketing royalty oil and gas. Federal lessees should not see 
any increase in administrative costs or experience operational burden. Federal les- 
sees should have certainty through elimination of disputes associated with royalty 
valuation. Similar benefits will accrue to the government. Also, lessees should not 
have any costs or obligations beyond the lessee’s obligation to deliver at, or near the 
lease. Reporting should be related to volumes produced and delivered, not sales 
prices or other related valuation information. Finally, marketers should be provided 
a business opportunity which has an acceptable risk/revenue ratio, thereby enticing 
participation by the most professional and successful marketers in the business. 

The second principle requires transactions at, or near, the lease to fulfill the lease 
obligations. Once the production is delivered at an RIK delivery point at, or near. 



95 


the lease, the lessee’s royalty obligation must be completely satisfied. A lessee must 
have no duty to market or transport the government’s oil or gas past this point. All 
risks and costs incurred downstream of the RIK delivery point should be borne by 
the lessor or its purchaser, in the hope of realizing maximum revenue from reselling 
the production downstream. An effective RIK program should not hold the pur- 
chaser liable for the lessee’s failure to perform under the lease contract. 

The third principle provides that when the government elects to take “in kind,” 
it must take all royalty production for a time certain. Further, if the government 
takes its royalties “in kind,” it must give sufficient notice and, for a time certain, 
take the full royalty fraction tendered by the lessee(s) from a given property. The 
government must have no right under the lease to defer its take obligation, or leave 
its production in the ground. Moreover, the government must have no right under 
the lease to defer any production from either new or existing leases. Otherwise, les- 
sees will be unduly burdened by additional marketing and operational problems. 

The fourth principle requires the use of private marketing expertise to streamline 
government operations. The government’s oil or gas should be marketed through a 
competitive, privatized system in order to maximize benefits, and streamline govern- 
ment operations. 

The fifth principle provides that the states should have the opportunity to be in- 
volved with designing and implementing the program. At least one state, Wyoming, 
has been actively promoting royalty-in-kind concepts this year. In addition to being 
actively involved in the design of a government RIK program, the states need to be 
given the opportunity to participate in the marketing of the Federal royalty stream 
taken “in kind.” 

The sixth and final principle makes royalties taken “in kind” broadly available for 
public purchase. Any production subject to this royalty-in-kind program should be 
made available on an open, competitive basis to a broad-based public market. This 
would include providing the opportunity to market to a broad group of interested 
and qualified marketers. 

If an RIK program for oil and gas were to be implemented based on the above 
principles, MMS would benefit in several ways. First, MMS would have the oppor- 
tunity to maximize the value of its oil and gas. Second, an RIK program would 
eliminate many of the complexities and uncertainties surrounding valuation of prod- 
uct at the lease. When royalty is taken “in kind” rather than in value, the market 
value is basically the price the MMS receives in the marketplace from a willing 
buyer. Finally, the administrative burdens for both MMS and the Federal lessees, 
particularly audit, record keeping and litigation costs, would be sharply reduced. 

Finally, API supports the MMS’s efforts to move forward with an examination of 
potential RIK programs, as described in its Royalty in Kind Feasibility Study (Au- 
gust 1997), released September 2, 1997. API urges MMS to look closely at the work- 
ability of an RIK program for crude oil as well as for natural gas production. Such 
a program could accomplish the goals stated by MMS Director Cynthia Quarterman 
last week when she noted the potential for RIK programs to “both streamline the 
royalty reporting and auditing process and to enhance revenues to the U.S. Treas- 
ury.” API also fully supports the decision by MMS to seek additional input on alter- 
natives to crude oil valuation before proceeding further with the oil valuation rule- 
making. 



96 


BRIEFING PAPER ON 

ROYALTY-IN-KIND FOR FEDERAL OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION 


ISSUE 

On federal lands, including the outer continental shelf (OCS), lessees make a cash payment for 
a portion of their production value (usually 1/8 onshore, or 1/6 offshore) as a royalty to the 
federal government. Valuation of production is a complex and burdensome process for lessee 
and lessor alike that has resulted in years of litigation and the establishment of a large 
government audit staff. In 1995, the Minerals Management Service (MMS) conducted a pilot 
program in the Gulf of Mexico for taking the federal government's share of natural gas 
production "in-kind," as opposed to receiving cash value. In June, 1996, the Subcommittee 
held a hearing which focused on the lessons learned from that pilot program. Subsequently, in 
the conference report (104-863) for the FY 1997 Omnibus Appropriations Act (H.R. 3610), 
Congress asked MMS to pursue additional royalty-in-kind (R-l-K) pilot projects. 

This is the first of two oversight hearings, with a follow-up hearing planned for mid- 
September. The Subcommittee has invited participation from several States, a panel of 
industry marketers and producers and the MMS. In this first hearing, we will learn more 
about the current R-I-K programs for oil and gas that the Texas General Land Office conducts 
on state lands, how the affected industry would evolve under such a program and an update of 
the MMS’ activities since the 1995 pilot. The second hearing will focus on outside witnesses 
including consultants, think tanks, economists and third party industry experts with a primary 
focus on the program used by the Alberta provincial government to take the Crown’s share of 
royalty oil in-kind. 

BACKGROUND 

The MMS is responsible for collecting royalties on approximately 4.3 trillion cubic feet of 
natural gas produced from the Gulf of Mexico each year, as well as from onshore federal 
leases, primarily on public domain lands in the western U.S. The Mineral Leasing Act of 
1920 (for onshore leases) and the OCS Lands Act of 1953 (for offshore) both give the 
Secretary of the Interior the discretion to collect royalty in-kind, albeit R-I-K is now the 
exception, rather than the norm. Currently royalty collection efforts are based on regulations 
promulgated in 1988 (30 CFR 206), which clarified existing regulations as to arm’s-length 
gross proceeds from a lease. Another change affecting the gas markets were the Federal 
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) orders which in effect deregulated the natural gas 
industry, transforming the transportation and marketing sectors into the diverse, competitive 
system we have today. 



97 


- 2 - 


VAl.lJATION REGULATIONS 

Oil valuation regulations (at 30 CFR 208) are currently under review at MMS. Two iterations 
of draft rulemaking have been published wherein the agency has proposed to base crude oil 
valuation upon contract prices negotiated in the New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) 
market, minus certain transportation factors. This represents a radical departure from reliance 
upon gross proceeds received as the basis for valuation, where so-called posted prices in the 
field prevailed as a measure of value. The comment period for second iteration of the 
“NYMEX minus” proposed rule closes on August 3, 1997. 

The rationale for MMS’ proposals on crude oil valuation appears to be based upon concerns 
that gross proceeds are difficult to define where true arms-length transactions between 
producers, marketers, and refiners do not exist because significant volumes are moved within a 
vertically integrated company’s captive parts, i.e., from wellhead to its own refinery. By 
definition, “independent producers” must sell their crude to either independent refiners or to 
integrated oil companies with refining capacity and therefore are captive to whatever the local 
market will bear. 

The “NYMEX minus" proposals are viewed skeptically, at best, because MMS has 
engendered little trust in producers that the size of the transportation deduction before 
computation of royalty owed would be realistic, resulting in a value consistent with the gross 
proceeds they can expect to receive in the field in which the production occurs. In other 
words, the proposed rule(s) appear to creep the point of valuation for royalty purposes 
downstream from the wellhead or lease boundary toward the end users, which in effect levies a 
royalty upon the value added from aggregation of volumes and aggressive marketing of those 
volumes. 


THE 199S ROYALTY-lN-KlND (R-l-K) PILOT 

The 1995 gas R-l-K pilot program was a voluntary program conducted in the Gulf of Mexico 
from January 1, 1995, to January 1, 1996. The MMS had two objectives for the pilot: 1) 
streamline royalty collections; and 2) test a process which promises increased efficiency and 
greater certainty in valuation of the product for royalty purposes. Fourteen lessees 
volunteering 79 leases participated in the pilot committing 6.5% (123.5 million standard cubic 
feet) of the royalty gas volumes in the Gulf of Mexico. Thirteen marketers were awarded 
contracts to purchase the royalty gas. None of the leases volunteered for the pilot were within 
the 3-mile “Sec. 8(g)” zone, the area in which federal royalty revenues are shared with coastal 
states. 

Under the pilot, a lessee made available to an MMS marketer, each month, the federal 
government’s entitled share of production. The MMS look title to its gas at the designated 
transfer point and simultaneously sold the gas to a purchaser or marketer. The lessees 
continued to make production decisions, perform gas control activities, and operate any 
pipelines upstream of the facility measurement point. 



98 


-3- 


GOALS OF AN R-l-K PROGRAM 

The main objective of any expanded program would be to maximize federal and state revenues 
by 1) consolidating the government’s royalty volumes thereby creating a marketing advantage 
for the products; 2) reducing the size of the government bureaucracy to run a royalty program; 
3) reduce the administrative costs charged to the states; and 4) greatly diminish the cost of 
litigation associated with royalty valuation. 

The program must be practical, efficient and cost effective to administer by the MMS and to 
comply with by the industry. In addition, the program must ensure certainty by fulfilling 
royalty obligations in the transaction at or near the lease, promote simplicity in the royalty 
management program and capable of change with fluctuating market conditions. The states 
will play a primary role in designing and implementing legislation to maximize revenue and 
create a manageable, if not transparent, state/federal interface. The program will utilize 
private marketing expertise and assure that production taken in-kind is available for public 
purchase. 

CONCLUSION 

Conceptually, R-I-K has bipartisan support in Congress and among state regulators, the 
Administration, and the industry. The complex programmatic details are where the idea 
becomes more controversial. From this hearing and further interaction with the MMS, the 
Subcommittee will determine what changes to existing law, if any, are needed to allow States 
with production in the OCS Lands Act Sec. 8(g) zone to take their fraction (27%) of royalty 
oil and gas in-kind. 

The Subcommittee believes several questions need be answered before crafting legislation to 
implement a R-I-K program, including: 

1. Can a federal R-I-K program reduce administrative costs by eliminating overhead 
associated with valuation of the product? 

2. Can a federal R-I-K program maintain or increase revenue through a marketing 
advantage of its large volume of royalty oil and gas? 

3. Can issues such as delivery point, marketable condition, production fluctuation and 
volume balancing be resolved so that marketing of the federal product remains 
competitive? 


Attachments; 

Witness list 

Summary comments from the MMS public hearings held in the spring of 1997 



99 


> 

o 

3 
LU I- 
O CO 

lU _l 

kS 

g< 

s lU 

a o 
< z 
z ^ 

(0 > 


CO 

0. 

O 

X 

CO 

or 

O 

$ 

H a» 
< o> 




< 

O) 

a> 


Z • 

LU ; 

S • 
S ' 

o 

o i 

O I 

-I ■ 

GO : 

3 

CL 

11 . 

O 

> 

QC 

< 

s 

s 

3 

<0 


'o o o> S ^ 

it CO Q .05 -S? - o> 

3 5 X <0 -R .£ 

e) & 0 ) 0 ) 5 y -O 
_ S o m c 

S T3 c*^ <2 S ^ 

o o E ■□ s •“ o 

« 2, ® — E fc 
^ o E> E c „ 5 

■g ^ ° = i fi 

ic 0) W C 3 2 3 
5 m 5 ro ^ rt 

c “ 5 E M ■“ e 

? "n fl) S 2 4 ) 

2!^ SI o 

4) 


- 0= o) E 


c o . 

O 0) 4J . 

^ c o g o 

“O' 


CO 


<0 ' 


: o > 


^ 4) ■ 


4) w 

Si:s-g s ® 


' CD . 


^ '^.C 
_ T 3 '5 
CD <u 


</) o 

2 co 


tfl o ■ 

4) o 


1 r: c . 


4) o 


5 5 CO £ 

^ <fl 2 £ 

^ 2 cfl 4) ^ 8 

04J«5C3^'S)\ 
■8 

o 43 -2 re .52 5 o = 

0 >'OC.CO<«Q. 
•« c re*^^»- rt) 

w|™ES^§| 

29 - 0 ^ - ^£w) 


5 E ® ^ 

S cn re 


2:''^ 
■o 4) 


8 “1 II i 8 S 
I ^ 0 ^ " oi S 

t^o' 0 U_^ 2 £ 


03 re 

1 re 1 _ 

2 ^ .9 a T3 ^ - 

-- 0 ®ni>‘ 03 ret 

5 8 P- 2 ^o >22 


UJ 

X 

to 

_l 

< 


O 

U 

X 

UJ 

H 

3 

O 

(O 

0. 

o 

X 

(0 

X 

o 

s 

(O 

< 

o 

_l 

< 

X 

3 


0.3 

'SC^ 

3 *- 


0 (/) 
Q. 0 
cn (/) 


0 CO 
oO 


0 .C 
O-CO 
O _ 

0 iS 
> c 

0 4) 


5 O 


re to 
.£ E 


1,1 
D3 Q. 

re o 

O 0 
£ 

0 — 
^ O 

5 -c 
2 


0 


re 


ro ^ 
CO re 


0 § ^ o <u 
5 8 o a £ 


CD Q. ^ 


CO LU 


C ”5 
E 03 
O — 
2 

03 3 
.£ TO 


"> E 


8B| 

U. DC S 


CD 0 
0 •£ 
E re 
^ E 

^ TO 


Q. CD 

o. ,2? 


E ^ 
2 5 




= £ 


0) ^ 
^ .o 
£5 t/3 


oi re 
Ot " 


0 C 
C/3 O 

re u 


w c 
0 ^ 
c re 


0.8 

8 I 

E 2 

CO 

E ‘'5 

R ns 


CO i: 
CD ^ 
03 £ 

E ^- 
o ;o 

CO ^ 


CO Q. 

5 E 


oi S' 


re S 


CO n; 
.11 
S c 



100 


5 j= ” ^ 

S O (A 

s 5 s r « 

= — .250 

5 S 3 1 i 

= TJ " 2 § 

D <D d) r- 

UHi 

5 ^ w 5 !■ 

- ■;rl « ^ 

0 3 ^ X 

“ C ^ (0 *J5 

3> S S E 2, 

: c > ,_ p 
= 5 0 ) (0 

^ 5 o£^ 

^ B z o^tj 

■ .2 S ,£ s 

! §2 no 

^< o o m 

i> E * <« 

1 3 < J ^ 

; o Q. o ^ 

1) " o'Bs 

2 “ t; 

2 =<<:2 
I) ■§ ^ m n 

^ |5 S? 

5 §■ w-i 2 

ililt 

In 

s £ S ■» 0) 

2 2 -C 

? c r 

1 n a i - 

■ o — •— w 

!>S E c 2 

5 O C O S 
5 S.o';^ ™ 

« gio g> 

? ro ^ ^ n> 

5 

2 £: c o -o 

2 ^° » If 

K _ o> J5 p ^ 

- <0 E “5 Q. o 


:S .£ -p to 

S E*® “ 

^ re E * 

T3 t C q;' 

c re flj ^ 

re j. > o 

- §> s 

p I ® = 

£ £ -c re 

« s « S 
•“ ? i » 

o 3 2 . c 

« §■« 2 

0 

2 ™§r 

3 ^ JS P 
O) 5 3 

£ W 8 c 
5 2 P .§ 
2| 81 
^ re 5 O) 
c ■= ^ 0) 
” §> 2 ^ 
a; re o. cn 
■i ^ • £ 
■— ® ^ > 
2 £ w n 
2 !>s n n 
g 

> <- .re 
<0 c re v> 
® ® n ro 
u *5 ^ .5 

T3 o re ^ 
o ^ c C33 
^ "O O Z3 

Q. re £ c 

re O -n £ 


*' ^ 'Z 
-£ ^ a> 

^ re 3* 
Ei o 
re c re 

ll^ 

O c CO 

to g.S 
5 g’sl 
Set 
— re 

§ n 0) 

J3 i £ 
re re c 

g 2 re 

re o o 
o ^ o> 

§ s ® 



101 


4 ) 

cn 


05 


a. 






102 


a> 

E 

o 

{/) 

c 

0) 

■g 

3 

£i 

■D 


§ 52 

■s « 


3 E 

o ™ 

is 

■D 52 

m 5 
. o 
n -o 


B >' 
— D 
*Si -C 


-iz 43 

1 1 


Q. , . 

E ® 
o .£ 

(j (/I 

I? 

.E oj 


= ® 
5 ^ 

Z 2 , 


c Bi X, 

5 s 03 

JO ^ c 

<0 4) M 

^ ^ (0 




a> w 


(0 


“O 

^ -C 
B ^ 

s “ 

o ^ 

£ i 

5 *0 
^ 4) 

£ E 

<0 43 
4) O 
B c 

V 3 O 
c o 

0 « 
■a »_ 
*- P 

43 '*“ 
W3 

1 E 

^ § 


<0 o 

^■S 

4) "O 
2 « 


<2 o 

If 

<rt «) 

c w 
(0 2 


(A 

(0 3 
O ^ 

p’s 

Y c 
43 43 
43 C 
M 43 
V> Q. 
43 X 
—I 43 




• 52 


sE 


3 E 


£ i 


c £ 

t/> ‘ff 

1 = 
Q> « 
1 -6 
E n 

CO y) 

£ c 
03 43 


E 9 


03 = 

i '5 

^ 4) 

o ‘'J 
^ fO 

o £ 


O O 

tf) o 

w * 

S o 
CO 

«« Q. 

}2 CO 
O "O 
S C C 
^ O CD 
43 IS -3-i 
■O 5 W 

= l| 

C W m 
03 C 3 
> CO .'S 

LU Jn ;s 


3 t 
CL ® 
43 .£ 


43 • 

52 cc 

CO t' 

i> o 


^ E 


CO t; 

ii 


£ ® 
43 5 
^ CO 


03 43 
43 C 
C O 
>. J= 

B C7J 


S c'* 

3 >. 
O SS 
o CO 


c <2 

4) « 

03 = 
(0 (0 


52 -o 





103 


S 5 

>. V 
TO i — i 

e|,£ 

X o 
Z ^ 

? 1 c 
^ ^ 0) 
■o o E 

4 ) ^ 0 ) 
w o w 

TO g 
<u - E 
^ 52 

D TO > 

1 

Q. ai3 



104 


f g-g 

o " 

^ S <“ 

2 -D E 
o 3 -i 

cEr 
tr o o 
o E Q. 

o-^ ^ 

2 wj o 

<U 'r^ -C 

S S “ 

o g (0 
E 0) ^ 

<u -5 g 

i?2 

Ift 

^ -c ^ 

^ o ^ 

F Q. 0) 

^ 0) <D 

E c ro - 
p o c 
□ t: *- 0) 

M 3 ^ C 

aj ® g. 
^ i2 S g- 
j2 — w E 

C (D (A o 

0) o S ^ 

£ iS <D 0) 

^ Q.'O 3 

5 

E =<| 

0 2 c tr 

l| 2 a 
g’s 
2 <0 a.2 

s i S o 
a) 2 2 o 

a ra « <2 
c £ ■•« 5 
“ -o -g 5 

1 g |5 

£ o ^ I- 
"D 3 <fl £ 
ffi o 

2 o -2 
O) t/j iQ W 

ro <u 3 E 

.2 ? E a 

c ® 0) 

l^ll 

< .J2 E © 


^ :-t 

:¥ ® Q. 

T3 a> ,i 

1|S^ 

5 ^ c © 
2 » 1,2 

.Q- -| o 2 
-2 -2 o © 

TO cn -i 
a.Sti? 



105 


o E 


5 <0 

6 </) 
JS to 


0 ) 5 
■o S 

3 0) 

O ^ 

.■2 I 
si 

0) -Q 
(A 


<fi . 

2 i2 

<0 

£ 


O 

^ to 

«1 

S ^ 

^ 8 


o 



106 


■O I 

1 1 
5 ro 

Q o> 

2 cu 

<rt O) 


</) o 
S -c 


0) (/) 
C (C 

o ^ 


5 <o 

0 ) ^ O. 

^ TOO 

-E ^ ^ 

^ I 

2 s § o 

-•So 5 
.-=: 0 ) iO 3 
^U. CO 

^ o> _ 
C Oj o> 

TO > Q: C 


X — TO 
u! K "O 


: TO E 


o a o -s 

X 3 T3 g- 
_ O TO O 
■ E o Li- ^ 
K « TO 5 
cn TO ^ _ 

2 c o 

00' “'S'S 
^ S S a 
■g .1 i 


C — 
o cc TO 


c O 
S O 
</) 

w) <11 O ^ 
o.^ > 2 
O s= — 
^ — tf5 S 
^§0)0 
•g z s W 

2 5 TO c 
J ^ TO TO 
w) - £ £ 

?.£<«£ 
£ TO £ o 
TO ^ ^ 

i|col 

^io| 


tt i i - 

1 “ c “ 

2 -a o oi 

eSiI 

1 2^1 

>. ™ a -2 

-o (O o (U 

a '3 '- 

M O S I- 

t/3 -' 01 ■ 

5 g E S; 

2 ra 2 ® 

5 “ 2.-- 

I— O 


iE TO 

£ ^ ® 
s 5 u n 
S o ® E 

S-Jsli 

£ c tr ^ 

S? ® Q 

TO E TO ° 

£ E f o 

(S s 

$ TO TO c 

w o .£ o 

01 n 2 
01 01 2- 2 
■£ -" c 0) 
g-i ® 5 
£ </) E 


s ° SE 
8 c e ^ 

3 ,0 ^ <D 


•O c 
c :5 
TO •* 


S jz 


: TO c 
: ^ ^ 


■g c « -2 <Ni 

- TO O C 

5-0-2 
40 o a 
_ (0 0.0 
Ss E 

2 .8 2 oi-g 
5.81 §• 
o .2 iS 0) 
= £ c S 

o x: TO -o 

i E I I •& 

” S -o £ 3 

“figs 

<0 TO 2., (0 
tr 5 O) g 
a> o TO 


E 

o i- • 
•TO Z ; 


TO 


E 

E 

o 

o 


— .£ S £ ® 

TO ^ TO ^ 

<0 2 >2 '5 

TO W TO c TO 

C 2 > 2-0 

TO ^ 3 §, 2 


C o_ 
O O 


&‘&*C 

" " ? 


' 5 £ 

J i.E 


_ O 
TO v> 


O) 2 
O Q. 
Q.'O 
— c 

TO (0 

Ms 
s 8 

TO TO 

Q. 

TO ^ 


5 2 
2 c 
>s TO 
-TO S 

T3 O 

2 P 
TO g 
E TO 
TO CO 

11 

£ TO 
TO JZ 


“•£ 
^ TO 


^ E 


E £ 


"2 "TO 3 

2 TO (O 


o: 

■o 


5 5 TO • 

s « ^ 

I “ 

TO <n m 


TO 


E ^ 

— -O ® 
0) 0) TO 

E 8 2 ‘ 

s° I' 

£5 2 

g CL to 

E — S 

IIS 

“e'I 

P < -g 

TO ‘S O 

£ ° 5 
■5 i£ 
So .5^ 

c TO := 

TO ° :g 

C W 3 . 

_ < o 

^ E 5 

-> 3 < 

O TO < 

> O ^ 

TO TO o' 
XJ 0 - - 


1 1 
- ,TO 
to U. 


3 ^ 

TO ^ 
> £ 
■55 ^ 

•g ^ 

il 
s<? 
■*“ </> 
TO (Q 

£ O 

oj'O 


1 c < 

— 01 DC 
■o 

3 o g> 

9 El 


SE 

o ^ 

o| 

5*^ 

-g 2 

C "TO 
TO •= 


5 - 
W ^ TO- 
•E TO TO 

TO 
£ 


g 0> 
•C P 
(O O 


E 

H- 01 § 

° ,2 8 


TO U. n 
toW,^ 


o 5 

o -s 


w £■ 


c ■«« 

O O) 

Iff C 


is 


.0 £ 

•D O 

TO IS 
r TO) 
5 W 

o ^ 
c o 

If 

TO n 

(c r 
=-§. 
f - 

CO 


Q. <0 

£ c 

TO TO 
TO TO 

ff TO 


•S TO 

■i-c 


c ,2 
^ ro 

TO TO 


O TO) 

TO TO 
• ff ff 
> •- O 
ISt3 . 

i ® m !S 
'31 o S 
' 5 S.® 
?" 2Z 

; o Q. o 


■§ o 

Q. "g 
TO TO 
JZ ® 
f— Q. 



107 


E ^ 
Ba: 
0) ^ 


I a 


*0 flj 

o ^ 


2 ^ 
$ 

y 3 


= 2 
tf) 0} 

01 <n 


ro w 

TO O) 


9 3 
^ E 



108 


CO 5 E 


S c ^ ' 


C TO i- <5 ^ 


.-= ^ O 


i! :5£ 

0 55 

“ Slg 

■c ^ ™ 

1 s s 

m JS to 

^ < ^ 

in 


^ £■ 


“• 2 oi 


2 g o 
c 0) 2, 


<u o 

«D 


( 1 ) o 

cn *’ 

1 2 a 

" >.£ 

I " E 
^ o = 


(Q 0 


i.9 0 5. 


N « C 
•= «) ® 
3 2 5 


iJ ffl 


>.5 9 

« 2 f. 
" « 8 
<9 


gl 

•u 


5 e 

« g « s 

</) C £ O 
2 « o) 52 
2 

_ £ = 
w 0 ^ 

x: — w 

■“ w o ^ 


® 0 c 


0 0 
€ g _ 
® 0 0 
= c o 

< 0 05 


E ,E 


E 2 


CO 


c c o .9 • 

^ £ o jc • 

2 0 C ^ 

2 =“ 


0 0 “ 


^ >. c « ® 

N re ® "D i 

g>2 £ § o 

8 o 8 S 2 

0 ~ g 2 £ 

5 0 re p 


WQ,— _ 

re o 0 b w 

-O ^ N 0 -D 


V) 

0 (0 
b c 
re 0 
£ 

= 0 

< g) 

- 05 

K re 




5 £ 

re "o 


■o E ■ 


C •S 3 

re iS o 
£ w 5 
m «? * 5 : 


05 


£ O 05 E U5 


2 ? to 
re 0 

Q. (0 

re 

^ 0 
5 = 


i» ■re 0 E S S'*® 
13 -— — 0 re £ 3 


,-00—0 

.9 > 05= o 


o 

O 


O) 

a» 

< 


o 0 

CO 05 

CO re 
re 0 

E 52 re 


c to c 


05 05 Q. 2 c 
c .0 re a — 

i 2 5 . 0 -S w 

W s 

i »> figl 

^ W « 2 ® 

O 0 ^ W5 


O 05 • 


0 


w - re re 
0O5 0£*- 

o» P “ t_ P 

rI P e 

Q. ^ O 0 -- 

re 0 £ Q. 

■rs 05 ^ w 

o re ^"o ^ 


3 to 

-O cO 

0 2 

.2 .g) 

5 .£ 

05 05 

1 ” 

o 

> 

^ O 

SI 

■O P 


2 r? P re 


S-g B 5 ^ 

S ^ 0! >• Q. 

S2S| 


E 


, ■^ In E 0 9 


Sl^s o 


0 ^ 

2 5 


re re 
05 >. 


> re 0 • 


0 ^ = 
g £ 0 
c ♦- to 


5= 

05 CO 

0 -E TJ 


£ o 
K = Z 


ore© 

•" £ JO 

o 9 re 

^ 5 05 

Q. -s re 

0 o 5 
£ ^ 03 
■=05 5 
T 3 c i 

S.2 

S " I 

>-11 
re "O 
o .9 2 

S £ “■ 
£08 

o . re 
E o 0 

« 

re 0 


£ ;; 
re 05 


^ 0 
Qi -9 


TO > 
^ 0 


8 0 
52 re 


re £ 
? re 


.11 


8 i| 
» £ i 

c E ® 

.9 o 0 
re 'f re 
o> 

0 re 05 

III 

” n c 

? « 2 
^ o re 


> 0 

S o 
. 0 

£ re >♦ 

? 0 "re 
E -o >• 

^ T 5 2 
.5 = 0 

2 i ^ 0 : 

igfi. 


•c QC 
P 2 


?.Ei 
c<j — 0 

•- "O 05 

52 re "o 

0- S 
S 0 ” 

re £ o> 

"5 0 a 
J2 £ 52 

m *re 8 

502 

H re ca. 

8 " c» 

0 ) e .E 
g Sg 

s| » 

® 2 E 

Q_ 2 


^ 0 
0 ^ 
- £ 
i re 

s 5 

T 05 

2? 0 

re 0 

b 05 
O ^ 

re 0 


5 0 


0 0 £ 


re 0 


3 E 



109 




110 


ro w 5 

Q. 0) u 

52 « « E 

o < 1 ) c (0 
«= ■S 05 


S “ a — 

3i « •*" flJ 

_3 ^ dj (/) 

~Z S 

> <0 ^ 
•o ^ >< Qi 
S o B p 
^ c E 
E J>: o (D 
^ o o *- 

i 5 ^ o 

s ?. <u :s 
o>= £ -a 
S ra c o 

w o — “ 

= ^ <0 D 
n c -c •- 

s; ^ 

Sols 
5 i.|_l 
i £ S’i 

-S m d, CL 

g S W ? 

S-oi ™ 

c 3 s a 
m O <0 

S s -s = 

§ Sg -£ 5 

o 2 (Q <U 
TJ 2 E O 
<D 

y) TO O "O 
W £ Q. 0) 
0) «J W 
Q. ^ 

X ;= -C <U 
0) <U ^ 
O) -O 5 Tl 


5 0) 5 

^ 2 ^ 

o .52 TO TO 

Q. E 



Ill 


■ 5 ii~ 

^ 5,2 I 

O' 2 9 ^ 

.S w 5 o 

^ '5c . ^ 

O ® *0 2 

■» <u ,c a 

o 'S 

1-55 2 

o " 3 g 
2 ■“ >• 2 
4 ) ^ ( 1 ) 

y O W > 


•- 4) o C 
■5 t — 0) 

W 3 P C 

2 ^ R 

$ R- 

j2 - w E 

t= 4) tn O 

0 ) O S ^ 

P a> 4) 
4 ) C>.T3 3 

1 2 E To 

3 ^ > 

£ §^| 

O) 2 c c 

i|il 

g.^ 

2 a 2 

|iii 

l-l^i 

to c ^ o 

5 ,2 R- - 

■Q 3 tf) S 
4 > m n 4 > 
2 O -S <£ 

O) W J2 to 

to 2 c E 

tff -S 2 0) 


|"l| 

< .2 2 5 



112 


o 

(CO'® 

till 

o -g o 
s s „ 
o 5 ■= -S 

°-o §■•§ 


£ 6 i| 

"O "C := £ 
<1> <1} o 4) 
c "S 'R £ 

•= flj ° O) 

E 5 w ® 

© (!) O ^ 

liii 

* « O)^ 
V) O c £ 

^ £ •= 3 
IS (0 Q. O’ 


^’O’OS 

— C C 3 

ra <0 (0 & 

CO *- *r .<2 

£ « ® ^ 
o E E £ 

§ c c 2 

ESS” 

^ o o to 
Q. o> O) > 


S§ « X3 *0 

s y ® 2, 

sis ? 

T3 C 

gj W CO 2 
« 5 CO 

o m ^ c 
o c ^ o 
w to - £ 
ro = ^ -1 

S w |S 

c ® 5 

S 5 ’<0 o 
O' - <l> «o 
O P s w 

^ O X W 
■ ^ ^ O V> 
mC - q, «> 
■O = fc CO 

S|l£ 

5 “ «> 5 
" S £ o 
< So m 



113 



114 


S> ^ <0 

^ 9. > 




o s - 
X :: 


w (0 ^ 

^ q; X 
5 -Q 111 

5 o iS 

Oct; 
o 0) 
■o^S 
c 5 < 

0) S s 

£ 5 a> 

(Q M £ 

o£i2 
a> ra S 
i5 £ £ 


<D jS ■ 


^ aj ^ 


±= "o 

Ei 


(/) CO 
0) O 
O) 

m ^ 


a 

E 

8 


- >v ^ 

c ju W 

I 

■S -5 "2 


(Or-'-' 

.•= E "o 


<0 42 

*- >s (0 

r i| 


• £ 9 


e o 


</? o 


ST <0 
ra a> 2 


a> o c 

^"S 3 
9 ” w 
o >. 0) 


(0 


CO 


a £ 

1 f2£ 

<0 S o E 
a §-®2 
S' f o §> 

2 Q_ S a 


0> ID .*2 

£99 

o .9 0) 

T3 £ 
o> c ^ 
•2 (0 -o 
0) “ c 
^ ^ flS 

? .9 o 

= r 1 
“ ? ^ 
"o o 9 


= (DOW 


- 5-i^ 

o 2 S = 

* = E 
&8®| 
s i « i 

ra ® 3 O) 

Some 

I 

seel" 

(0 c m ^ 
Q <D -S <D 

to D O IT 

(o £ r o 

R S ® S 


• to 


o (O 
3 3 
-o to ^ £ 
o o O — 
^ 0) O "= 
0- ^ O) S 


Q. ^ 

5 o 

i-i 

o o 

•r. a. 
CO _ 
0 ) (0 
5 .9 

•tr O) 


515 


^ ? 
■D 0) 
3 Q. 
O o 


O E 


(0 


(O 


■O "O 
c c 
(D CO 
E CO 

E -2 ^ 

8 I o 

® S-i 

£ CO o 

O ^ Q. 



115 


0) ' 
OJ! 
Q. ' 


^ O) 

a: p 


t « -C 

I 

9- Q. s 




:-S 

0) s E 

I 0) < 3 

8|.i 
^ — £ 
£ 


Q.— .£ V) 


O £ T3 
UiTS !U 


■$ ro 
£ « t 

c P 8 


J £ E ^ 

= 3 P 
J -5 < (rt vw 

) C Q. <J) 




fO = p O) § 

•o ® £ ■£ <2 
p £ 2^ ^ 

</» o 2 ^ 
<2 p w “■ 9- 

li<l i 

= s ^ - - 

I p 




CSX 
V. ^ lU 
p p p 5 

— wj 2: ^ 

2 2 CO 

f i 


pS^z 


CQ 

E 


p 


1 Q..£ T3 > 

' 9 3 p ^ 

' 3 flj 

^ tf) "O £ p 

! p C •£ ^ 

; -c P .£ .^ 

• "5^ p‘ ? c 


w. 3 
£ 8 = 
^ p « 

5 ^ £ 

-Q *- 

P c C 

sis. 

ili^ 


■§ls 

£ (O p 
P P €0 

> > P 

> S ^ 

P o 
£ 2 c 


^ ^ 8 p p « .2 p 


> p 

i p 5 i c t3 

1 I f .!!! “ 5 

^ ? g 5 «. 

j Q. "Jj £ £ 

I "D 3 j 2 is ® 


82 


^ E 


^ p o 
p £ £ 


oi 


p £ ' — 

^ ■“ >« </j 

-O P JQ 3 

3 P W3 

o u a 2 

5 -o E 2 
, « p p ^ 


s<^ 

i|i 

«!i 

:5 p ^ 

E m ^ 

§ " o 
g t <u 
E 

f i § |J I 


P XI c 

Itl 

§i& 

£ p 2 


y §’ ■8. 


2 2 3 

2 o ^ 
c i P 

a!2 

y ? 
^ £,s 

P ,2^ p 

a. £ M 


■o c 2 


P o - 
o § *0 

C > 3 
P W o 
S ^ C 

2 o d 

p E:2 
Q. P < 


P 


P 


P > 

— E 
p 5) 


p g 
C P 

5 P 
a.S 

^ p 

si 

f I 
■o E 


O) 8 
C P 

5. E 

P o 
«.£ 
t 2 

o 2 

Q. O 

2 5 


2 P 

p £ 
o P 

3 P 


C o 


p E 


e* 

9 

> 


Q. P 

Q, ^ 
= >« 


18 


3) S' 
P 0) 
t: c > 


8 I 
I S 

5 c 

i i 

5 « 

o c 

do 


° 2 
P W 

£ S 


r E 

Q.^ 
O Q) 
€ t 

P p 

0. o 


O w w . 

'Si 3 P 
8 “ £ 


O 2 5 I 
_Q> p o ; 
^ 5 Q, 5 


P 


o 2 ^ 


P p t E 

E o P 2 

■s 

S - 3 ^ 


O «/) 


o 

u 

9 

A 

2 


O) g p 
c .2 w 
S p £ . 
3 O o 

CO u= ^ 

£ o o 

p ^ ■ 

P • 
£ p "c 
■D 3 2 

iE’2 

O ^ " 

a Ssi 

ra {g “■ 

CL P P 

8 ™|, 

1 1? 

sl'i- 

o5-^. 

0) Q W . 

™ < 8 

p l: ® ' 

E^l- 

3 «■§■' 

•8-w 

°2:l 

E " c 
i'c 8 
P g O 
; p ^ 


2 


2 3 

X3 


B:^£ 


i2 c 
P P 

<A ^ 


p £ p 2 

•52 5 P ‘ 

w p fc: • 

:f P P 

H E £ 



116 


— .£ fo 

1 c O 

E^i 

® ■? 3 

5 U 3 a 

2 ra o ® 

Q. ^ ^ 

g>l E I 
y <0 ^ « 

m ® O - 

— 2 S -a 
w 5 ^ c 
CQ ^ (0 (0 


M a -u 

^ Js eo 
2 « « 
l|s 

“ n -o 

^ ?! 
E i ? 

gl^ 

81 ° 
0,-5 
V iS 0) 
> (0 > 

sSl 

§id 

■O S 
S n 

o. O o 

® E Q. 


* . 5 =*" 

'5 s 

? E 2 5 

8 j® >; > 

I o « a 
■i c •« ? 
> S 2 ® 

sill 

l“!-i 

as « 

5 O C S 
O C 5 :g 
■c £ o S 

I I ® 

o 2 
■C 3 ® 

® a ™ « 

O’ ra .= ^ 

m ® ^ W 



117 



118 


lit! 

c TO 9 2 ? 

0) o ^ 

£ O ro CM 

•s W o 

S£<o 

"C • *- . 
“D O W £ • 

ra w 8 ^ * 

I 2 I ™ 

15 O C I : 

■c ^ E 
O « T3 

Q. tf 5 CO S 


<u 9 p ^ 

1 - S ^ ' 

2 s «r^ 

^ <U - CO 
£ «rt 04 0 ) • 

3 </) o 

w >- 2 ra 

“Ifs- 

ra 3 2 <-> 


^ s 2 |: 

2 “ n “ 
^ 2 ° *> 
?£•?=£ 
•2 "D § 'S 

-Q 0 } c O 

2 S o -s 

o E 8 . 
o <-> o = 
co' c ^ w . 

IgS.I 

= H O W 

S “2 i 

c 2 - o 
2 i £ CO ■ 
g.-D S 2 

liii 

K IS I I . 


<0 ^ £2 * 
9 c <« .E 

to 0) ^ _ 

2 551 °= 

® to ic 9 
CO u 

^ 2 n> 

c ^ c ^ 

ni 5 o 2 

m 2 

S ° " 

o ® ^ L> 

■§ S S-g 
n !» ?, a 


«o (o "2 
^ "o •£ 

(O = ^ 

CO iS _ w 
a; Q. .£ ro 

^ £ a " 

P E - c 

■S " c " 

2 si 8 

« 5 §1 
2 'S § 8 - 
8^8 s, 
Sf H-a 

2 s j£ S 
0. E iS tS 



119 


UNITED STATKS HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVFS 
COMMITTEE ON RESOURCES 

STATEMENT SUBMITTED BY STATE OP LOUISIANA TO SUBCOMMITTEE ON 
ENERGY AND MINERAL RESOURCES 

The Department of Natural Resources of the State of Louisiana, as oversight agency for the 
development of mineral resources from slate owned lands and walerbottoms, has a vested interest 
in the issue of federal take-in-kind royalty from offshore production due to the fact that Louisiana 
receives a monetary share of royalty paid to the federal government on 8(g) production. The position 
of the State of Louisiana can be concisely summed up as follows: 

The State of Louisiana does not at this time have the personnel, agency expertise or budget 
necessary for it to properly market oil and gas produced from State owned lands and waterbottoms. 
Such a function would require hiring, either under private contract or as part of the civil service 
system, marketing experts, economic forecasters, economists, minerals futures analysts, etc. at a 
prohibitively large increase in the budget. Accordingly, if the State of Louisiana received its share 
from royalty on 8(g) production in-kind, the same prohibitive budget increase for additional 
personnel would be necessary or the State would have to hire a private marketing agency to market 
its in-kind product. In either case, the State would not likely benefit from any potential increase in 
its royalty share in that the cost of marketing would more than offset any increase in value received 
for the sale of in-kind product. 

The State of Louisiana is presently restricted by stahitoiy law, namely: La. R.S. 30: 142-144, 
as to how it may dispose of any in-kind royalty product. With regards to in-kind royalty gas, La. 
R.S. 30:142 states that sale must be by public bid unless the gas is being used to satisfy human 
needs. That statute goes on to define human needs as: 

1 . ) Maintenance of gas and electrical services for residences, correctional facilities or publicly 

owned water, sewerage and drainage facilities. 

2. ) Maintenance of agricultural operations. 

3. ) Maintenance of commercial and industrial business activities utilizing less than three 

thousand Mcf on a peek day. 

4. ) Maintenance of public services provided by municipal, cooperative or investor owned 

utilities who come under numbers 2.) And 3.) herein above. 

5. ) Maintenance of depressed energy-intensive industry which meets certain specified 

requirements. 

Then, even if the use to which the gas is put meets one of the above requirements, the Public Service 
Commission sets the minimum sales price. In-kind royalty oil, under La. R.S. 30:144, is limited to 
sales to small refineries. 

Tire limitations imposed on the sale of in-kind royally product by sialutoty provision negate 
any marketing strategy thus depriving the Stale of the possibility of increased revenue derived from 
the sale thereof. The present statutory scheme for handling in-kind royalty would have to be 
changed by the Legislature of the State of Louisiana for the State to be able to take advantage of 
marketing its own in-kind royalty product. 

The possibility of regulations, presently the subject of speculation, and proposed Louisiana 
mineral lease changes which would set the market value of royalty oil at the spot price of oil at an 
aggregating facility such as Empire or St. James would dictate that the State of Louisiana, without 


120 


sufficient marketing expertise to “trade” oil at different locations around the country, would be 
forced to sell at tlie best price it could get in the area. Accordingly, the State would not be interested 
in receiving in-kind royalty oil unless Uie State could guarantee a sale at a price equal to the spot 
price at the aggregating facility, which the Stale, under the royalty value clause of State mineral 
leases compels its Lessee to obtain and pay the proportionate royalty value to the Sute, and its 
purchaser could receive a sales price greater than the spot price at the aggregating facility. 

The State of Louisiana, in performing audits for the Minerals Management Service on 
production in the 8(g), is well aware tliat tlie federal government may not be getting its proper 
royalty value from production in the 8(g) and may benefit from taking in-kind royalty and marketing 
its product. Because the federal government may have the requisite personnel, expertise and budget 
to adequately perform the marketing function, the value reeeived for sale of in-kind royalty product 
would possibly exceed the royalty value received when the lessee sells the royalty portion of 
. production. However, at this time, the State, for the reasons set forth herein above, does not feel that 
it would benefit by taking in-kind its share of royalty from production in the 8(g). Nevertheless, 
conditions could change and circumstances could arise that would make it desirable for the State to 
take its share of 8(g) production in-kind. Therefore, the State of Louisiana would support legislation 
that gives the State such an option. 



121 


Jim Magagna 

Director of the Offlce of State Lands and Investments 
Director of Federal Land Policy 

Madam Chairman, Members of the Subcommittee, I am Jim Magagna, Director of the 
Office of State I,ands and Investments and Director of Federal Land Policy for the State of 
Wyoming. I applaud your initiative in providing this important forum for a dialogue on the 
issue of royalty in-kind. The State of Wyoming, under Governor Jim Geringer, has assumed 
a leadership role in seeking development and implementation of a cost efficient, effective federal 
royalty in-kind program providing an opportunity for full participation by affected states. We 
are appreciative of this opportunity to share our efforts and expectations with members of the 
Subcommittee. 

Wyoming’s intense interest in a royalty in-kind program for federal oil and gas royalties 
is based, in part, on expaiences and frustrations with the current federal royalty program. The 
affected states are recipients of fifty percent of federal mineral royalties on a “net receipts 
sharing” basis. Better explained, the states receive fifty percent of the net royalties after a 
deduction of up to 25% percent of the costs of administration of the minerals program. 
Wyoming has long been frustrated in its efforts to obtain a full accounting for these deductions. 
In 1993 the State completed a study of the projected cost of administration of a state operated 
royalty administration program. We remain confident that this study has demonstrated that a 
state designed program meeting all basic federal requirements could be operated at a significant 
cost savings to both state and federal royalty recipients. However, lack of full disclosure of cost 
breakdowns for the federal program has precluded direct comparison. 

When, in 1995, the Department of Interior announced its proposed devolution of the 
Minerals Management Service (MMS) functions to the states, Wyoming was quick to come to 
the table. However, devolution proved to be the elusive greased pig-always just beyond reach. 
The proposal was withdrawn without opportunity for meaningful dialogue on acceptable terms 
for implementation. 

Wyoming worked closely with members of Congress, in particular our own delegation, 
to assure that delegation of roy^ty functions to the states was contained in the Federal Oil and 
Gas Royalty Simplification Act (FOGRSFA). Although we were successful in this effort, the 
final language was more limiting in delegable functions and provided for greater Secretarial 
discretion than we had sought. 

Since passage of FOGRSFA we have worked diligently with MMS in development of 
Standards and Guidelines for implementation of the Section 205 delegation provisions. 
Wyoming has represented the Western Governors Association in this process. Consistently, 
MMS has given a very narrow interpretation to functions that are delegable to the states. 
Similarly, MMS has generally maintained that, in assuming delegable functions, the states would 
be required to use the same processes and forms that are currently used by MMS. These 
constraints leave no opportunity for state inventiveness and operate counter to the express 
purpose of delegation-reduced administrative costs. 


1 



122 


Members of the Subcommittee are familiar with the current effort by MMS to develop 
new methodologies for valuation of royalty oil. Wyoming supports this effort insofar as it is a 
recognition of the difficulties in valuation caus^ by nonarms-length transactions between 
affiliates. HowevCT, we remain concerned that the proposed valuation based on NYMEX pricing 
does not sufficiently relate to the realities of the regionalized Wyoming marketplace. We ate 
not confident that a valuation approach can be devised which will have common geographic 
applicability. While Wyoming’s interest in a royalty in-ldnd approach precedes this MMS 
valuation initiative, we believe that the difficulties with oil valuation demonstrated by many of 
the comments on the proposed rulemaking provide added incentive to all interests to seriously 
consider royalty in-ldnd. 

While each of these experiences has provided a powerful incentive for Wyoming to call 
for a re-engineering of the federal royalty program, we are equally motivated by the 
opportunities for revenue enhancement provided by a carefully designed royalty in-kind program. 
Significant ongoing enhancement will result from major cost reductions associated with a 
program that no longer relies on collection, analysis and auditing of pricing data. More 
importantly, we believe that the marketplace holds rewards for those who are willing to bear the 
risks normally associated with participation in the private sector. The State of Wyoming is 
prepared to assume these risks as to its share of federal royalty oil. 

The 1997 Wyoming L^islatuie took the first significant step toward positioning the state 
to take its share of federal mineral royalties in-kind. The Legislature pass^ and the Governor 
signed into law Senate File 148, now Wyoming Statutes 9-4-fi01(g). This subsection provides: 

The state, should federal law not proscribe such action, is authorized and 
empowered to receive its gross percentage share of federal mineral royalties 
from the production of oil and gas which is due under the provisions of the 
act of congress of February 25, 1920(41 Slat. 437, 450; 30 U.S.C. §§ 181, 

191) as amended, in the form of the actual production from federal mineral 
leases covered under that act of congress. If directed by the governor, the 
production shall be taken by the state in lieu of royalty receipts. The 
production shall be taken in the same percentage of volume as the gross 
percentage of royalty proceeds allowed by the act of congress. Any sale or 
disposal of the production shall be administered by the director of the office 
of state lands and investments or his designee. The director, subject to 
criteria established by the governor, shall sell or dispose of any production 
taken by the state from federal mineral leases. Prior to receipt of any 
royalties, the director shall promulgate necessary rules and regulations to 
carry out this subsection. 


MMS, in February, issued draft options for a federal royalty in-kind feasibility study for 
on-shore oil to be conducted in Wyoming. In response to this proposal, Wyoming presented to 
MMS a proposal to allow the Slate of Wyoming to take its share of federal royalty in-kind and 


2 



123 


market same during the term of the proposed federal pilot project. The Wyoming proposal 
including an example of how it might operate in one Wyoming county, Campbell, is provided 
as Attachment A to my testimony. While this pilot proposal has received favorable response 
from MMS staff, it is our understanding that MMS believes it is currently lacking statutory 
authority to effect a direct transfer of royalty oil to a state. A pilot project could be a useful tool 
in testing the design of a royalty in-kind program. However, due to the limited volumes involved 
in a pilot resulting in negative economies of scale for both market power and administrative 
costs, it should not be viewed as a comparative test of net returns. 

In April of this year I had the opportunity to travel to the Province of Alberta to visit 
with industry and proving officials regarding the successful royalty in-kind program operated 
by the Ministry of Energy. I was accompanied by two legislative leaders and a member of my 
staff. There are important diffsences in the Canadian situation. Significant among these is that 
ownership of government minerals rests not at the federal level, but in the provinces. The 
evolution of the current Alberta program has little opportunity for parallel in the U.S. As I 
understand this program, prior to 1985 the province took possession of 100% of production 
through the gathering process, then transferred to producers their share. Following deregulation 
in 1985, the provincial royalty share was marketed by the Alberta Petroleum Marketing Council 
who would also market for independent producers for a per barrel flat fee. Beginning in 1995, 
apparently due to pressure against government competition and program costs, the province 
contracted for private sector marketing. Many of the fundamental components of the current 
Alberta approach represent a useful starting point for development of a federal royalty program. 

There are several key elements to making a royalty in-kind program successful and 
acceptable to Wyoming: 

1. The stales must have the right to receive at or near the lease its 50% gross share 
of federal royalty oil and gas. 

2. The states should have the opportunity to receive and market the federal share of 
federal royalty oil and gas provided the state offers a price no less than that 
otherwise available to the federal government. 

3. The state and federal royalty interests must maintain the right to receive a cash 
loyalty payment for de minimus production. 

4. The states’ share of federal royalty oil equals fifty percent. Participating states 
retain the full net proceeds from sale. States opting to receive a cash payment 
from federal in-kind royalties receive a payment of fifty percent of net federal 
proceeds less a deduction of no more than the actual administrative costs of the 
federal in-kind program. 

5. Reporting and auditing requirements for participating states are limited to those 
necessary to collect and verify lessee production and delivery volumes. 


3 



124 


I am aware of several principles which have been developed by industry organizations which I 
believe will be presented in later testimony. Wyoming gener^y supports these principles. 

Propo' design and implementation is critical to the success of a royalty in-kind program. 
The program must reflect the concons and the input of the states, producers, marketers and the 
MMS. Program design should not be confined by the constraints of current legislative authority. 
Rather, Congress must be prepared to give clear legislative authorization and direction to a 
program with the potential to mazimize net returns to the state and federal royalty interests while 
minimizing burdens on oil and gas production. 

While adequate time must be devoted to program design and implementation, there are 
two key market factors affecting Wyoming which cause us to urge you to move expeditiously. 
On the oil side, Wyoming producers ate beginning to see significant market impacts from the 
flow of Canadian oil into Padd IV markets as a result of the Express Pipeline. Negative price, 
and therefore royalty and tax, impacts can perhaps be countered by more aggressive marketing 
of Wyoming production. This effort could be substantially enhanced by the State’s ability to 
aggregate and offer a significant volume of royalty oil. 

Wyoming contains one of the most significant remaining reserves of natural gas in the 
United States. The primary current opportunity for market growth exists in the midwestem and 
eastern states. This opportunity too has caught the attention of Canadian producers. There are 
currently up to seven proposed pipelines and pipeline expansions to move Canadian gas into 
these markets. The state has undertaken several initiatives including a gas marketing project and 
a Gas Fair to seek new market t^^rtunities. Our ability to offer assured long term gas supplies 
could likewise be enhanced by a royalty in-ldnd program. 

The State of Wyoming is committed to being a leader in a partnership to develop a 
federal royalty in-kind program containing the elements which 1 have outlined. The states, 
MMS and industry can benefit from a properly designed program. Our experience with 
development of the Section 205 Standards and Guidelines, which I earlier addressed, provides 
a clear lesion on the need to have all interests simultaneously involved in the design process as 
full players. I urge Congress to provide a clear expression of its support for the royalty in-kind 
concept and a truly collaborative process for its development and implementation. 

I thairk you for your careful consideration of my comments. Wyoming stands ready to 
assist you in moving forward with this initiative. 


4 



125 


ATTACHMENT 

A 


MARCH 25, 1997 


WYOMING PROPOSAL TO TAKE STATE SHARE OF FEDERAL ROYALTY IN-KIKD 

OIL 


The State of Wyoming hereby offers an additional option to the 
Minerals Management Service' February 21, 1997 draft options for a 
federal royalty in-kind feasibility study onshore (Wyoming) . That 
is: The State of Wyoming be allowed to take its share of federal 
royalty in-kind and market same during the term of_the proposed 
federal pilot program. 

ASSUMPTIONS 


This State option proposal is proffered under the assumptions that: 


*Federal lessees/operators will be under a mandate from MMS to 
participate in a royalty in-kind pilot, delivering State share 
royalty production as directed by the State. 


*The primary goal of the pilot project is revenue enhancement for 
the in-kind royalty share volumes taken, if and when taken, 
during the term of the pilot. 


♦Consideration will be given to the State's sharing in federal 
pilot program funding for the administrative costs related to 
in-kind royalty volumes taken. 


PILOT FOCUS 


The State proposes a pilot in-kind royalty oil program focusing on: 


♦Federal unitized production from high-volume units from which 
the State also currently receives a production allocation, and 
federal unitized presence is a significant percentage of total 
unit production. 


♦Taking initially from an area with sufficient transportation 
capacity and proximity to the Rocky Mountain market center 
within Wyoming. 

♦Taking initially from an area with significant proximate 
production concentrations - Example: a by-county or township 
concentration . 


126 


March 25 , 1997 

State Royalty In-Kind Proposal - Federal Production Share 
Page 2 


PROGRAM BASICS 


Proposed program basics for State R-I-K pilot: 


estate share of federal in-kind royalty oil production available 
on a competitive bid basis only, on a total available unit or 
field basis, inclusive of State in-kind royalty oil volumes, as 
a minimum. Total royalty in-kind volume shares (federal/state) 
from all units in the aggregate may be bid. 


*Bid package to include call for bids detailing bidder 
requirements, sample contract and property schedule. 


*Bids received to be compared to current market and current net 
royalty value as a basis for acceptance or rejection of high 
bid{s) . 


^Reservation of right to reject any and all bids and receive 
direct cash royalty payment for State share marketed by 
federal lessees /operators. 


♦Purchaser (s) assuine(s) all responsibility for taking 
delivery, transporting and marketing crude beyond custody 
transfer tankage. 


♦Requirement for purchaser(s) to take or pay for ail State 
share in-kind royalty produced volumes on a monthly basis. 


♦In-Kind purchaser to retain all revenue from downstream sale 
and provide payment monthly on all volumes at contract price. 


ACCOUNTING CONSIDERATIONS 


♦Use existing State bid package and contract documents, modified 
as necessary to accommodate federal production issues. 


♦Federal and State lessees/operators to continue reporting to 



127 


March 25, 1997 

State Royalty In-Kind Proposal - Federal Production Share 
Page 3 


respective agencies as applicable. 


♦State receives monthly a report of unit sales volumes supported 
by crude run statements/purchasers statements as verification 
base documentation. 


♦Production verification accessible electronically from Wyoming 
Oil and Gas Conservation Commission and Department of Audit 
computerized access to federal forms 3160 and 2014. 


♦State costs should not increase dramatically assuming cooperation 
from State and federal agencies and lessees/operators, and given 
existing direct relationships with producers/operators and 
proximity to the area. 


♦Purchaser of in-kind royalty provide electronic funds transfer to 
State Treasurer, acknowledgement documentation to Office of State 
Lands and Investments along, with custody transfer pipeline and 
truck run tickets to support volumes purchased. 


Example Countv: Campbell. Wyoming 


♦Federal production approximately 52% of total county crude 
production. 


♦State in-county production approximately 6%. 


♦The first ten units (arrayed in order of descending volume) 
within county in which State/federal production exists, would 
yield greater than one-thousand barrels per day as State's share 
of in-kind royalty available for sale. 



128 


Target County: Campbell County, Wyoming 

1996 Monthly Volume: 

Federal - 715,673 bbls (52,03% of County Production) 
State ' 85,545 bbls (6.22% of County Production) 

Federal Units: 



Volume 

Federal 

Interest 

State 

Interest 

Hartzog Draw 
.(Johnson Countv also) 

430.512 bbls 

70% 

2.5% 

North Buck Draw 
(Converse Countv also) 

331.637 bbls 

55% 

07 %- 

Sandbar East 

51,913 bbls 

90% Muddv “A*’ 

40% Muddv “C 

05% 

Alpha 

41,009 bbls 

72% 

04% 

Highlight 

40.942 bbls 

28% 

04.9055% 

Raven Creek 

36.631 bbls 

24% 

11.8111% 

Rozet 

37.161 bbls 

96% Mtnnelusa 

32% Muddv 

00% 

02.9208% 

House Creek 

34.374 bbls 

53% 

08.41% 

Bone Pile 

(Converac Countv alsol 

30.024 bbls 

09% 

.000164 

Pine Tree 

26.351 bbls 

100% Shannon “E” 

82% Shannone “CE” 

00% 

00.71808% 

Lone Cedar 

23.060 bbls 

03% 

46.195019% 


129 


FOLLOW-UP ADDRESS: 

Jim Magagna, Director 
Office of State Lands and Investments 
122 West 25th Street, 3W 
Cheyenne, Wyoming 82002 

307-777-6629 
307-777-5400 Fax 
j magag®missc. state, wy. us 



130 


Written Statement by 
Larry Nichols 

President and Chief Executive Officer 
Devon Energy Corporation 
representing 

Independent Petroleum Association of America (IPAA) 
Domestic Petroleum Council (DPC) 

California Independent Petroleum Association (CIPA) 
Colorado Oil and Gas Association (COGA) 
Independent Petroleum Association of Mountain States (IPAMS) 
Independent Petroleum Association of New Mexico (IPANM) 
Louisiana Independent Oil and Gas Association (LIOGA) 
National Ocean Industries Association (NOIA) 

New Mexico Oil and Gas Association (NMOGA) 
Oklahoma Independent Petroleum Association (OIPA) 
Petroleum Association of Wyoming (PAW) 

Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Association (RMOGA) 
before the 

Committee on Resources 
Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 
U.S. House of Representatives 
July 31, 1997 


Dear Madam Chairwoman and Members of the Committee: 

I am Larry Nichols, president and CEO of Devon Energy Corporation 
(“Devon”), an independent producer who has federal onshore production, I am 
here today on behalf of Devon and CIPA, COGA, DPC, IPAA, IPAMS, IPANM, 
LIOGA, NOIA, NMOGA, OIPA, PAW and RMOGA. 

Madam Chairwoman, members of the Committee, we always appreciate 
the opportunity to work with you in the pursuit of a more simple, certain and 
efficient program for collecting revenues due the Treasury and states from 
federal oil and gas production. During the 104th Congress, I testified before this 
Committee to encourage the Minerals Management Service (MMS), states and 
industry to seriously examine royalty in-kind as a possible alternative to the 
increasingly complex and contentious requirements for paying royalties on gas 
production. At the close of the 1 04th Congress, much progress was made in 
advancing royalty in-kind. We were encouraged by the report language 
contained in MMS' 1997 appropriation requiring them to pursue additional oil 
and gas pilots for royalty in-kind. 



131 


During the past year, the need to explore for alternatives to re-engineer 
the royalty collection system has dramatically increased. Through proposed 
rulemakings for both oil and gas, the MMS plans to add more and more 
complexity and uncertainty to the royalty collection system. Quite frankly, we are 
headed the wrong direction. These rulemakings would have the federal 
government chase its molecules to remote markets far removed from the lease 
and “net back" using complex and other undefined and arbitrary formulas to the 
wellhead in an attempt to estimate value at the lease. 

Such a system will be costly for the taxpayers and encourage disputes 
over what costs can be deducted to estimate a wellhead value. For over 25,000 
leases spread throughout the western United States and the Gulf of Mexico, it is 
not a simple task for the federal government to netback from burner tips and gas 
pumps to the wellhead, especially during this era of deregulation. This type of 
net backing scheme will only result in winners and losers at the wellhead, 
including the federal government. 

If a producer decides to sell its production at the wellhead and not 
participate in the downstream market, then the value received at the wellhead is 
appropriate for royalty payments, not theoretical netbacks. Deciding to 
participate in markets beyond the lease presents a new area of risks, costs, and 
rewards—significantly different from those undertaken to produce the oil. Yet, 
MMS is proposing rules which expect producers to undertake those risks by 
entering into a midstream market at no cost or risk to the government. In 
addition to being intrusive into private business practices, this approach 
disregards lease terms which require royalties to be paid on the value of 
production removed or sold from the lease, not on the value of natural gas 
marketed in New York City or oil marketed in Cushing, Oklahoma, at no cost to 
the government. 

If MMS wants to derive value from downstream markets, they have the 
means readily at hand - royalty-in-kind. All of the agency's concerns and 
perceived problems over how to value royalty could be addressed by a royalty 
in-kind program. The MMS seems to concur based on the many public 
statements it has made since 1 994. Again and again, MMS has stated that 
royalty in-kind “will simplify government procedures, streamline reporting 
practices, eliminate duplication and waste, and provide better services at 
reduced cost to taxpayers and other customers ' Further, the MMS has claimed 
that royalty in-kind could remove them from “the complex practice of determining 
the appropriate value of production and eliminate disputes.” 

We couldn't agree more that an appropriately designed royalty in-kind 
program may result in these benefits, recognizing that the analysis may be 
different for oil than for gas. One of MMS’ very own consultants for royalty 
valuation matters has stated, “The only way to be absolutely certain that a fair 



132 


market value is received for royalty oil is to take the oil in kind for sale.”(See 
attachment). The consultant could not have said it better. Royalty in-kind 
accurately measures value by capturing all value resulting from a transaction 
between a willing buyer and a willing seller at or near the lease. By taking in 
kind, MMS should gain benefits. It will bring to an end its valuation 
controversies with lessees. The MMS will have the opportunity to earn higher 
rewards than the market holds for successful risktaking. 

You are probably wondering why even a small independent who always 
sells at the wellhead and currently is allowed to pay royalties on gross proceeds 
is in support of a royalty in-kind program. Why would this type of producer be 
willing to deliver a royalty fraction of its production to the government? With 
dach change to the valuation regulations, the MMS continues to encroach on the 
principle on which independents conduct their businesses: that production is 
best valued by sales at the lease, not by downstream transactions. For 
example, the current proposal for valuing oil royalties emphasizes downstream 
prices over prices a producer receives at the wellhead. With each rulemaking 
change, MMS discriminates against companies by desiring all producers to 
undertake downstream risks, free of cost to the lessor, and in essence punishes 
independents by regulating an expanded duty to market. The only way a 
producer can be certain that MMS will never mandate marketing for wellhead 
producers or require payment of phantom income is to have MMS or the states 
take the entire federal royalty stream in-kind. 

We strongly support MMS' current initiative to study the option of 
marketing its own royalty oil and/or gas. In response to the FY 1997 
appropriations report language, the MMS held a series of workshops across the 
country to discuss the feasibility of moving ahead with a royalty in-kind re- 
engineering project. During these workshops, I believe MMS heard a consistent 
message from the oil and gas industry— yes, we are interested in determining the 
feasibility of designing a royalty in-kind program which will result in a more a 
simple and certain royalty collection system. 

We acknowledge that there are a number of design issues, depending on 
whether the royalty stream is oil or gas, that need to be resolved before the 
government moves forward with a royalty in-kind program. If all parties can 
agree to the mission and principles of a successful royalty in-kind program, 
timely resolution of design issues is likely. During MMS' royalty workshops held 
this spring, we agreed to outline for MMS and states the goals, principles and 
design elements of a successful royalty in-kind program. To initiate this process, 
representatives from a number of oil and gas associations from across the 
country have formed a royalty in-kind workgroup (workgroup). After a number of 
meetings, I am glad to report to the Committee that the workgroup has 
developed a mission statement and principles for designing a successful royalty 
in-kind program: 



133 


A Royalty In-kind Mission Statement 

To design a federal royalty in-kind program that will eliminate 
valuation uncertainty and that will be attractive to federal, state, and 
private sector stakeholders while recognizing the differences between oil 
and gas production. 

Description of Royalty In-Kind Principles 

1. Reduce administrative and compliance burdens while 
providing the opportunity for federal and state governments to 
piaximize their revenues. 

The MMS and states. The MMS and states should have the ability to 
optimize value by aggregating volumes, determining the most favorable 
sales location, arranging transportation, and negotiating the terms and 
conditions of the sale. The potential for increased revenues will require 
the MMS to manage risks and costs associated with marketing royalty oil 
and gas. 

Producers. Federal lessees should not realize an increase in 
administrative costs or experience operational burdens, but have certainty 
through elimination of disputes associated with royalty valuation. Similar 
benefits will also accrue to the government. An effective royalty in-kind 
program should not impose upon lessees any costs or obligations beyond 
the lessee's obligation to deliver at or near the lease. Reporting should be 
related to volumes produced and delivered, not sales prices or other 
related valuation information. 

Marketers. Marketers should be provided a business opportunity which 
has an acceptable risk/revenue ratio thereby enticing participation by the 
most professional and successful marketers in the business. 

2. Require transactions at or near the lease that fulfill the lease 
obligations. 

The royalty in-kind production must be delivered at or near the lease. 

The government must give sufficient notice and take for a certain 
minimum period of time. Once delivered at a royalty in-kind delivery point 
at or near the lease, the lessee’s royalty obligation must be completely 
satisfied. A lessee has no duty to market or transport the government’s 



134 


oil or gas past this point. All risks and costs incurred downstream of the 
royalty in-kind delivery point should be borne by the lessor or its 
purchaser, in the hope of realizing maximum revenue from reselling the 
production downstream. 

The purchaser who takes delivery at the royalty in-kind delivery point is 
actually taking from the government and performing under a separate 
contract. The lessee and the government's purchaser have no 
contractual relationship with each other. An effective royalty in-kind 
program should not hold the lessee liable for the purchaser's failure to 
perform under the royalty in-kind contract, nor should it hold the 
■purchaser liable for the lessee's failure to perform under the lease 
contract, 

3. Provide that when the government takes in-kind it must take all 
royalty production for a time certain. 

If the government takes its royalty in-kind, it must give sufficient notice, 
and, for a time certain, take the full royalty fraction tendered by the 
lessee(s) from a given property. The government has no right under the 
lease to defer its take obligation or leave its production in the ground. 

The government has no right under the lease to defer any production from 
either new or existing leases. Otherwise, lessees will be unfairly 
burdened by having additional marketing and operational problems with 
which to contend. 

4. Require use of private marketing expertise to streamline 
government operations. 

The government’s oil or gas should be marketed through a competitive, 
privatized system in order to maximize benefit and streamline government 
operations. 

5. Provide the states with the opportunity to be involved in 
designing and implementing the program. 

At couple of states - Wyoming and Texas - have been actively promoting 
royalty in-kind concepts. In addition to being actively involved in the 
design of a government royalty in-kind program, the states need to be 
given the opportunity to participate in the marketing of federal royalty 
stream taken in-kind. While states should be given latitude in marketing 
federal royalty oil, any program for state marketing should follow these six 
royalty in-kind principles. 



135 


6. Make royalties taken in-kind broadly available for public 
purchase. 

The purchase of hydrocarbons subject to this royalty in-kind program 
should be made available on an open competition basis to a broad-based 
public market. This should include providing the opportunity to market to 
a broad group of interested and qualified marketers. 

The workgroup is now compiling a list of design issues. A sampling of 
design issues include handling new production when it comes on line, 
transportation arrangements for the government (or its marketers) for privately 
owned lines, balancing, processing, equity production, producer obligations for 
transportation, liabilities of the marketer, an open and fair competitive system for 
in-kind volumes, and notification and other administrative burdens. Design 
issues should not discourage us from continuing to explore royalty in-kind. 

To determine if a successful royalty in-kind program is feasible, the 
workgroup will attempt to resolve these issues. As conclusions are drawn, we 
will meet with marketers, states, and MMS to ensure our conclusions 
accommodate their needs. After attempting to reach agreement with all affected 
parties, we will provide a full report of this process to the Committee. We hope 
to be able to submit this report to the Committee within 90 days. 

State and foreign governments appear to have successful in-kind 
program. Their experiences can guide us in designing a successful royalty in- 
kind program. As compared to these other models, it does appear that MMS 
could achieve dramatic administrative cost savings over its current system of 
royalty in value. For example, the Province of Alberta, Canada, currently 
employees only 33 people to run a royalty in kind program which sells 146,000 
barrels of oil per day. The MMS employs hundreds more employees for an 
equivalent amount of production. In fact, the MMS continues to receive 
appropriations for more and more auditors year after year. The agency and 
states could dramatically reduce costs — if the program is properly designed - 
and, by assuming certain costs and risks, potentially increase royalty income. 

Again, the MMS consultant agrees: “There would be some overhead costs 
associated with marketing the oil, however, the cost savings in auditing and 
compliance, coupled with higher value, could prove to be quite advantageous to 
a state agency.” However, MMS seems hesitant to accept even their own 
consultant’s advise and counsel because they believe their 1996 gas royalty in- 
kind experiment lost revenue. We believe it is not appropriate for MMS to draw 
this conclusion because the gas experiment had a number of design flaws which 
prevented MMS from obtaining additional revenues. 



136 


There are a number of ways in which the pilot could have been improved 
to achieve higher bids. The agency made some mistakes, such as taking gas 
during mid-winter, not providing sufficient notice and information to bidders, 
preparing incomplete bid packages (including errant index points, no 
transportation information, no quality information), not aggregating volumes in a 
meaningful way (thereby preventing the warranting of minimum volumes), and 
not examining closer the cost to move through privately owned lines. These 
mistakes, combined with the fact that MMS chose not to assume any costs or 
risks associated with the downstream market, produced bids that were lower 
than might have otherwise been obtained. The truth is that no third party non- 
producer marketers successfully bid on the gas taken in-kind during the 
experiment. 

The manner in which MMS quantified the alleged "loss” is flawed as well. 
In simple terms, the MMS believed it was obliged to try and approximate the 
exact price producers would have been paid for gas the government chose to 
take in-kind. First of all, there is something inherently wrong with this type of 
analysis. When it sells royalty in-kind, the prices MMS receives under the given 
conditions of the sale, such as point of sale, quality of the production, length of 
the contract's duration, and so forth, are the fair market values for that 
production . If the government believes it needs to compare expected royalty 
payments to in-kind proceeds for regulatory scoring purposes, the approach 
MMS took is suspect. The MMS tried to approximate what royalty payments 
would have been for in-kind volumes by projecting forward from royalty 
payments made during the previous year. Market conditions are not static. 
Market conditions last year or market conditions for production from other leases 
in the Gulf of Mexico, do not have a direct correlation to market conditions being 
experienced by MMS for its in-kind volumes, or for other volumes being 
produced from that same well. 

Before “scoring” of the impacts of a royalty in-kind program is pursued, we 
suggest that economic experts be consulted to reach agreement on the 
appropriate measures. For more detailed comments regarding revenue 
neutrality, please refer to the testimony being presented by Mr. Fred Hagemeyer 
with Marathon Oil Company. 

Before MMS moves forward with a royalty in-kind program, we need to 
build a royalty program that adheres to the six principles discussed above, 
corrects the flaws of the gas experiment and accommodates all design issues. 
Furthermore, we need to determine if there are legislative and regulatory 
barriers which will prohibit successful implementation of a well designed royalty 
in-kind program. As a starting point for legislative changes, we need to 
reexamine the legislative language for royalty in-kind that was agreed to during 
the 104th Congress as part of the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Fairness and 
Simplification Act of 1996 (Act). As you will recall, even though this language 



137 


had the support of MMS and industry, it was eliminated from the Act on the 
Senate-side due to procedural rules related to budget bills. After a successful 
royalty in-kind program has been built, we will then be better able to determine if 
the type of legislative language contained in the Act is appropriate. 

In conclusion, I ask for the Committee’s support to have states, MMS, and 
industry to timely complete a comprehensive report of what must occur 
operationally and legislatively for a royally program to be successful. A poorly 
designed in-kind program or test of a program, will result in a royalty in-kind 
being shelved prematurely. 

For all who support reinventing government, there is no better project 
than in-kind. Together we can determine whether in today's oil and gas 
environment, we can create a royalty in-kind program that will ensure the 
government and states are receiving their full value for production from federal 
lands while at the same time reducing costs for all affected parties. 



138 


CRUDE OIL ROYALTY 
PAYMENT ANALYSIS 



Report to the State Lands Offices of 
Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas 


February 21, 1995 

Summit Resource Management, Inc. 

P. O. Box 797467 
Dallas, Texas 75379 




139 


Improvgd Payment Rf?ulatiQru: 

Tnc first st:o in achieving bener ongoing payment from me oil companies would be cieariy defined reguiaticcs which ie: me oi; 
companies know that royalty and lax payments should be based on the true market vaiue. or the acr^ci r.ei value received. I: 
me oi! companies know that the state governments arc aware of the true market value and expect pavTnenc on such a basis, me 
iikelLhood of compliance should increase dramatically. Summit suggests that regulations be wnrten to require that the oi; 
companies pay their royalties and taxes based on "the actual /inai net value received for sale of crude on' produced f-anx me 
lease, mciiuding oil considerations, trades and exchanges, commodiry center sales, rrcnsporiaiion. and oiner deduciic.'-.s 'mere 
cppropriaie." If this is not possible due to an oil company taking the cnide oil to its own refinery, or for a-ty other rcasco. men 
ire ta.\ anc royalty price should be "the foxr market value which could be reasonably expected to be received for final soie cj like 
crude oi: at the same lease location by a crude oil marketing organization with a level of sophisticaiion similar to ihor oj me 
resoonsicie parr,. " Once new regulations have been implemented, they would, of course, need to be actively fr.rorccd lo help the 
0.1 companies undemtand what is expected of them. The sate agencies responsible for enforcement vi ouid neec to be ecucated m 
cruae oii marxetins. and the oil company payment personnel vvould need to be educated in the new regulations. 


Audi»: 

Detaiieo audits of previous payments by a qualified auditor, skilled in crude oil marketing, would need to be conducted in order 
to prove uax or royairy underpayments. It would be necessary for the auditor to trace ail crude oii traces, evr.nanges. and final 
sales To is vvould therefore require that the auditor have me necessary experience and knowiedge to know where to look tor 
cocume.nujtion of unwritten or un-linkcd trades which may have been deliberately put in place to evade aucits. it is very possioie 
i.hat at leas: some of the oii companies would cooperate wnh the state agencies after learning Lhai the sutes had the auditing 
exDcmse :o locate the underpayments. 


Tne . way to be absolutely certain that a fair market value is received for royalty oii is to take the oil in-'<ind for sale by the 
stats ags.ncy. This can be very effective m locations wncrc me volume of royalty oil is large, but it may be impractical where the 
stats s rovairy oil is small or where additional physical facilities would have to be built to segregate me state s oil. There would 
be some overhead costs associated with marketing the oil, however, the cost savings in auditing and compliance, coupled with the 
higher vaiue. could prove quite advantageous to a sute agency. For e.xamplc. in the Yates Field, the State of Texas has recently 
received a.", average of approximately S2.00 over posted price and signitTcandy m excess of the other reported pnccs for the same 
field. On srr.ail leases and in tax compliance, however, m m-kind program would not be practical. 


Royalty Payment .Analysts 


s iinrr.i: Resource .'•lunugemeni. Inc. 


pjpi ■ n 






140 


Statement for the Record 
Larry Nichols 

President and Chief Executive Officer 
Devon Energy Corporation 
representing 

Independent Petroleum Association of America (IPAA) 
Domestic Petroleum Council (DPC) 

California Independent Petroleum Association (CIPA) 
Colorado Oil and Gas Association (COGA) 
Independent Petroleum Association of Mountain States (IPAMS) 
Independent Petroleum Association of New Mexico (IPANM) 
Louisiana Independent Oil and Gas Association (LIOGA) 
National Ocean Industries Association (NOIA) 

Natural Gas Supply Association (NGSA) 

New Mexico Oil and Gas Association (NMOGA) 
Oklahoma Independent Petroleum Association (OIPA) 
Petroleum Association of Wyoming (PAW) 

Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Association (RMOGA) 
before the 

Committee on Resources 
Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 
U S. House of Representatives 
July 31, 1997 


Document2 



141 


FRED D. HAGEMEYER 

COORDINATING MANAGER - ROYALTY AFFAIRS 

Madam Chairman and Members of the Committee: 

1 am Fred Hagemeyer, and I am pleased to be here this afternoon representing Marathon 
Oil Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of USX Corporation. Marathon is a fully 
integrated oil company with 1996 revenues of $16.3 billion. The company is involved in 
worldwide exploration, production, transportation, and marketing of crude oil and natural 
gas, and domestic refining, marketing, and transportation of petroleum products. Marathon’s 
1996 domestic production from 20 states was 122,000 barrels per day of crude oil and 
natural gas liquids, and 676 million cubic feet per day of natural gas. Marathon has the 
nation’s eighth largest refining capacity with refineries in Gatyville, Louisiana; Texas City, 
Texas; Robinson, Illinois; and Detroit, Michigan. These refineries ran a total of 511,000 
barrels per day in 1996. Marathon is involved in wholesale and retail marketing of refined 
products. In 1996, the company had refined product sales of 704,000 barrels per day, which 
included 412,000 barrels per day of gasoline. 

Marathon holds many federal and Indian leases both onshore and offehore. In the federal 
OCS 166 Lease Sale in March, Marathon and its bidding partners were awarded 1 1 blocks 
in 9 prospects in the Gulf of Mexico. These prospects increased Marathon’s inventory of 
Gulf prospects to 50. In 1996, Marathon paid royalties of over $84 million for oil and 
natural gas produced from federal and Indian lands. In addition to the royalty paid in-cash, 
the Minerals Management Service (the “MMS") took crude oil valued at over $9 million in- 
kind through the small refiner royalty-in-kind program. The royalty-in-kind volumes were 
taken primarily from OCS leases and onshore leases in Wyoming and Colorado. 

We are here today to discuss royalty-in-kind (“RIK") as an alternative method for satisfying 
the royalty obligations of producers with federal oil and gas leases. Royalty-in-kind is 
certainly not a new topic. The MMS has always had the option of taking its royalty in-kind 
as opposed to in-value. By fully exercising this option and marketing its royalty production, 
the MMS would eliminate valuation disputes with its lessees. Industry’s interest in a 
comprehensive royalty-in-kind program and the certainty it would provide to federal lessees 
was demonstrated earlier this year. The public workshops held by the MMS this spring in 
Casper, Wyoming; Houston, Texas; New Orleans, Louisiana; and Farmington, New Mexico 
to discuss and review possible options for a major royalty-in-kind program were widely 
attended by all segments of the oil and gas industry. Marathon actively participated in these 
sessions and welcomed the opportunity to candidly discuss critical features of a workable 
RIK program. Royalty-in-kind was also a recurring theme in the testimony offered at the 
April 15 and 17, 1997 MMS public hearings on the January 24, 1997 Proposed Rulemaking 
on Establishing Oil Value for Royalty Due on Federal Leases, and on Sale of Federal 
Royalty Oil. In published comments to the proposed federal rulemaking, royalty-in-kind was 
suggested, in some form, by almost all of the major oil and gas trade associations as an 
alternative to the proposed rulemaking. Royalty-in-kind is also supported by at least one of 
the consultants used by the MMS to develop the proposed oil valuation regulations. In a 
February 21, 1995 repon to the State Lands Offices of Colorado, New Mexico, and Texas, 


2 



142 


Summit Resource Management, Inc. said, “The only way to be absolutely certain that a fair 
market value is received for royalty oil is to take the oil in-kind for sale by the state agency." 


Marathon applauds the MMS' decision earlier this year to conduct an in-depth 
reengineering of all core processes of the Royalty Management Program. Marathon, and 
the oil industry in general, has developed a great deal of expertise over the last ten years 
in reengineering business processes. Reengineering is the term used to describe 
fundamental changes to a process. It is not just rearranging steps, but rather evaluating 
each step, eliminating those which are not value added, and adding new steps, if necessary. 
At Marathon, we have learned that reengineering an entrenched process is not easy, but if 
all stakeholders are engaged in the process and it is done properly, the results can be 
significant. Many times the benefits are much greater than anticipated, because it is difficult 
to identify all the indirect benefits. As part of the MMS’ reengineering effort. Marathon 
believes a RIK program can be created which will fundamentally add value to the MMS’ 
royalty process. Royalty-in-kind is a concept whose time has come. The key is mrning this 
opportunity into reality. 

As discussed at the royalty-in-kind workshops, a comprehensive in-kind program need not be 
complicated. If the MMS were to take its royalty oil or gas in-kind at or near the point of 
production, the MMS would control the valuation of its share of the production, and a federal 
lessee would only be required to report production volumes. The MMS could take its royalty 
barrels at the point established by the Bureau of Land Management onshore, or the MMS 
offshore, for the measurement of volumes for royalty purposes. The MMS could then contract 
with a number of companies with marketing experience to act as the MMS’ agents to aggregate 
and market the royalty oil or gas for optimal value. 

By taking its royalty oil or gas in-kind, the MMS would experience three key benefits. First, 
the MMS would have the oppormnity to optimize the value of its royalty oil and gas in the 
marketplace. Second, a royalty-in-kind program would alleviate the complexities and 
uncertainties of determining market value at the lease. When its royalty is taken in-kind, the 
market value is simply the price the MMS receives from a willing buyer. And third, the 
administrative burdens of both the MMS and the federal lessees, especially audit and litigation 
costs, would be reduced significantly or even eliminated. 

A review of the current royalty payment process shows it is fi-aught with redundant steps 
and disputes over valuation. This process begins with the reporting of production volumes 
to the MMS. Another report is submitted to the MMS showing the volumes and values 
being paid by the lessee. The MMS then compares these reports and begins a cycle of 
checking and auditing the reports and payments. It is during this process that disputes 
between the MMS and the lessee arise. Although many disagreements over royalty 
payments are successfully resolved, they consume the time and resources of both the MMS 
and industry. Almost all of the lengthy disputes and lawsuits are over valuation issues; very 
few concern volume discrepancies. 


3 



143 


If the MMS would take its royalty share of production in-kind, at or near the wellhead, the 
valuation review and audit cycle would virtually be eliminated. By selling its royalty share 
of production, the MMS would be assured of a price it agrees to for a particular lease. A 
streamlined process could be created where only a volume report would be sent to the 
MMS. Certainly, the MMS would have to verify the volumes, but that is a rather 
straightforward process. The administrative savings achieved by reducing the audit function 
and the expense of litigation would be one avenue of revenue enhancement. 

The second channel of revenue enhancement is the MMS' opportunity to aggregate volumes, 
determine the most favorable sales locations, arrange transportation, and negotiate the terms 
and conditions of the sale of its royalty production. Participation in these activities can 
result in optimized value if the MMS is willing to manage the risks and incur the costs 
associated with the marketing function. Expertise of a competitive private marketer would 
allow the MMS to participate in the described activities in the most efficient manner 
possible and thus achieve the greatest possible revenue benefits. 

During the last several weeks, a multi-association task force has been formed to develop a 
workable federal royalty-in-kind program. This group is comprised of representatives from over 
a dozen oil and gas trade associations, including the American Petroleum Institute (“API”), 
Independent Petroleum Association of America (“IPAA”), Rocky Mountain Oil & Gas 
Association (“RMOGA”), Domestic Petroleum Council (“DPC"), Independent Petroleum 
Association of Mountain States (“IPAMS”) and Mid-Continent Oil & Gas Association 
(“MOGA”). Marathon is an active participant in this task force through its membership in API. 
The efforts of this task force are important to Marathon for two reasons. First, Marathon would 
welcome the certainty of knowing its royalty obligation was fulfilled once the royalty barrels 
were delivered to the MMS. And second. Marathon recognizes that expertise in all segments 
of the oil and gas business will be necessary to develop a federal royalty-in-kind program that 
is viable and workable. The multi-association task force is a means to effectively utilize the 
expertise and resources of a wide variety of oil aixl gas companies in developing a federal RIK 
program. 

Marathon believes this multi-association task force offers a great opportunity to develop a 
meaningful, well conceived RIK program which addresses the major concerns of all 
stakeholders. Essentially, this task force is embailcing on a major reengineering initiative which 
is not inconsistent with the general reengineering goals of the MMS. It seems that the 
Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources can benefit tremendously from the efforts of 
this task force. This process is not easy, but we feel it is vitally important in developing a 
successful RIK program. 

The mission of the task force is “To design a federal royalty-in-kind (“RIK”) program that will 
eliminate valuation uncertainty and that will be attractive to federal, state and private sector 
stakeholders while recognizing the differences between oil and gas production. ” To accomplish 
this purpose, the task force identified six principles which a royalty-in-kind program should 
encompass. 


4 



144 


First, the program should reduce administrative and compliance burdens while providing the 
oppoitunity for federal and state governments to maximize revenues. The MMS and states 
should have the ability to optimize value by aggregating volumes, determining the most 
favorable sales location, arranging transportation, and negotiating the terms and conditions of 
the sale. The potential for increased revenues will require the MMS to manage the risks and 
costs associated with marketing royalty oil and gas. Federal leases should not realize an increase 
in administrative costs or experience operational burdens, but have certainty through elimination 
of disputes associated with royalty valuation. Similar benefits will also accrue to the 
government. An effective RIK program should not impose upon lessees any costs or obligations 
beyond the lessee’s obligation to deliver at or near the lease. Reporting should be related to 
volumes produced and delivered, not sales prices or other related valuation information. Also, 
marketers should be provided a business opportunity which has an acceptable risk/revenue ratio 
thereby enticing participation by the most professional and successful marketers in the business. 

The second principle requires transactions at or near the lease that fulfill the lease obligations. 
RIK production must be delivered at or near the lease. The government must give sufficient 
notice and take for a certain minimum period of time. Once delivered at an RIK delivery point 
at or near the lease, the lessee’s royalty obligation must be completely satisfied. A lessee has 
no duty to market or transport the government’s oil or gas past this point. All risks and costs 
incurred downstream of the RIK delivery point should be borne by the lessor or Its purchaser, 
in the hope of realizing maximum revenue from reselling the production downstream. 

■The purchaser who takes delivery at the RIK delivery point is acmally taking from the 
government and performing under a separate contract. The lessee and the government’s 
purchaser have no contractual relationship with each other. An effective RIK program should 
not hold the lessee liable for the purchaser’s failure to perform under the RIK contract, nor 
should it hold the purchaser liable for the lessee’s failure to perform under the lease contract. 

The third principle provides that when the government elects to take in-kind it must take all 
royalty production for a time certain. If the government takes its royalty in-kind, it must give 
sufficient notice and for a time certain take the fall royalty fraction tendered by the lessee(s) 
from a given property. The government has no right under the lease to defer its take obligation 
or leave its production in the ground. The government has no right under the lease to defer any 
production from either new or existing leases. Otherwise, lessees will be unfairly burdened by 
having additional marketing and operational problems with which to contend. 

The fourth principle requires use of private marketing expertise to streamline government 
operations. The government’s oil or gas should be marketed through a competitive, privatized 
system in order to maximize benefits and streamline government operations. 

The fifth principle provides for states to have the opportunity to be involved in designing and 
implementing the program. At least one state, Wyoming, has been actively promoting the RIK 
concept this year. In addition to being actively involved in the design of a government RIK 
program, the states need to be given the opportunity to participate in the marketing of federal 


5 



145 


royalty stream taken in-kind. Any program should follow these principles. 

Finally, the sixth principle makes royalty taken in-kind broadly available for public purchase. 
The purchase of hydrocarbons subject to this RIK program should be made available on an open 
competition basis to a broad-based public market. This should include providing the opportunity 
to market to a broad group of interested and qualified marketers. 

An important step in designing a royalty-in-kind program is to look at an example of an 
existing RIK program. In November 1988, the General Land Office (“GLO”) in Texas initiated 
a royalty-in kind program for oil, followed by The University of Texas System (“University”) 
in 1990. Since 1988, the GLO has taken all of its royalty oil in-kind from the Marathon- 
operated Yates Field, one of the largest onshore oil fields in the United States, The Yates crude 
oil is gathered and transported from the lease to a central battery unit where custody transfer 
takes place. Currently, the GLO is taking over 2,(X)0 barrels per day in-kind. Marathon also 
has experience with the University’s RIK program as operator of the Big Lake Field. 

Overall, Marathon’s experience, with both Texas royalty-in-kind programs has been positive. 
The programs provide certainty for the in-kind barrels by satisfying Marathon’s obligation to the 
lessor and eliminating protracted disputes over valuation issues for both Marathon and the 
lessors. Marathon firmly believes greater benefits could be recognized by both the state and 
Marathon if these royalty-in-kind programs were expanded. Furthermore, as an operator of four 
refineries and a net purchaser of crude oil. Marathon welcomes the opportunity to bid on the 
royalty barrels offered by the GLO and University. 

One of the lessons learned from the Texas RIK programs is that any new comprehensive 
program is going to experience start-up problems. During the first year of the Texas programs, 
there were problems concerning which party was responsible for gathering costs, the 
arrangement and verification of transportation, and the proper allocation of production. For 
example, there was a dispute between the first purchaser of the GLO’s Yates crude and 
Marathon regarding the delivery point of the oil and the 12Vi cents per barrel gathering fee. 
The purchaser evenmally paid the gathering tariff, but not until Marathon, as operator, expended 
a great amount of time and effort on the matter. Marathon would be remiss if it failed to 
acknowledge that this testimony might be much different if it were given in 1990. However, 
over time producers, purchasers, and the state have been able to work through these operational, 
transportation, marketing, administrative, and communication issues. 

While not without imperfections, the royalty-in-kind programs in Texas are very workable, 
viable alternatives to royalty paid in-value, and Marathon believes a wide-scale royalty-in-kind 
program is also workable for federal lands. It is imperative to understand that adequate time 
must be allowed to overcome the initial hurdles of a royalty-in-kind program. There is no way 
to totally eliminate the learning curve. The MMS must recognize that the early stages of an RIK 
program or even a shon duration pilot program can, and most likely will, provide misleading 
results. Only after the program has been in place for an extended period will meaningful results 
be obtainable. For this reason, the MMS must be very careful if it chooses to implement and 


6 



146 


evaluate any royalty-in-kind pilot program. In feet. Marathon believes it would be more prudent 
to expend the effort to develop a permanent royalty-in-kind program that could be phased in over 
time. 

Madam Chairman, in your letter inviting me to testify in today’s hearing, you asked that I 
comment on how a national program could increase revenue to the federal and state treasuries. 

A properly developed RIK program provides the federal government with the opportunity to 
not only achieve revenue neutrality, but also to increase net revenue. Both the MMS and 
industry generally agree that value can be added downstream of the lease by aggregating 
volumes, determining the most favorable sales location, arranging transportation, and negotiating 
the terms and conditions of the sale. In addition, a comprehensive RK program will allow 
significant cost savings to the federal and state governments. However, Marathon realizes 
legislation may be needed to ensure that a comprehensive RIK program satisfies the requirements 
of the federal and state government as well as federal lessees. 

Marathon is concerned that the impact of a royalty-in-kind program on the federal and state 
treasuries be analyzed properly. When the MMS decides to "check” on its progress, it must 
add cost savings from reduced overhead to revenue enhancement in order to determine the 
degree to which the program is a success. As illustrated by Marathon’s experience with the 
RIK programs in Texas, any review or analysis during the first year can provide misleading 
information. Marathon believes this is the case with the MMS’ review of the 1995 Royalty Gas 
Marketing Pilot Program. The MMS’ analysis of this program concluded that royalties collected 
during the pilot were less than would have been collected if the MMS continued to collect the 
royalties in-value. However, like the Texas experience. Marathon believes the real benefits of 
a comprehensive federal RIK program can only be realized after sufficient opportunity to work 
through the initial problems. Unfortunately, the MMS’ gas RIK pilot program did not allow 
sufficient time to work through the difficulties encountered. Moreover, the results of the gas 
RIK pilot program were far from dismal. 

As previously indicated. Marathon participates in a number of industry associations, including 
API, which are concerned with royalty valuation issues. API recently completed an assessment 
of the MMS’ review of its 1995 Royalty Gas Marketing Pilot Program conducted in 1995. The 
key points of API’s smdy of the pilot program are: 

• With such a limited test, it is statistically inappropriate to estimate revenue 
neutrality as a single number rather than as a range of possible values. If proper 
adjustments were made for uncertainty, the MMS could have found the pilot 
study was well within the expected range of revenue neutrality. 

• As a result of the lessons learned from the pilot program by industry and the 
MMS, program modifications will enhance revenues in an expanded and 
permanent program. These lessons learned include those related to transportation 
arrangements, the packaging of gas taken in-kind into larger volumes, and further 
administrative cost savings. 


7 



147 


Finally, a more careful analysis of the longer run consequences of a well-designed 
program will likely find that revenues would be greater than what was estimated 
by the MMS. Proper recognition of the economic incentives resulting from risk 
reduction and administrative savings will encourage operators to extend the 
effective life of fields (thereby prolonging the stream of royalty payments) and 
increase lease bonus payments on new leases. These impacts were not accounted 
for by the MMS in its evaluation of the pilot program. 


Attached to this testimony is the report prepared by the American Petroleum Instimte. The 
concerns raised by the API must be addressed before any final conclusions are drawn regarding 
the budgetary impact of the gas royalty-in-kind pilot program. Furthermore, because neither 
API’s approach nor that used by the MMS strictly follows congressional budget score-keeping 
procedures, another study has been initiated which will, in a more formal way, address the 
revenue effects of the pilot program using the required congressional budget scoring rules. This 
study will be available in the near future. 

In summary. Marathon believes the time has come for the federal government and the oil and 
gas industry to seriously consider royalty-in-kind as the best long-term solution to satisfying the 
federal lessees’ royalty obligation. A properly developed RIK program could streamline the 
royalty process for the federal and state governments and the oil and gas industry. 

Marathon’s participation in the multi-association task force is a clear indication that the company 
is committed to helping develop an RIK program that will satisfy the major concerns of all 
stakeholders. Marathon, along with many other federal lessees, is committed to working with 
this Committee and the MMS to develop a workable royalty-in-kind program. Working together 
we can minimize many of the start-up problems which may occur and shorten the learning curve 
for both the federal government and the lessees. A royalty in-kind program can be a winAvin 
proposition for all parties involved. 


79513.01 


8 



148 


Comments on the MMS Royalty Gas Marketing Pilot Program 


Background 

The Department of Interior's Minerals Management Service (MMS) collects 
royalties on oil and natural gas produced on federal leases. Traditionally, these 
royalties have been based on the value of production, as measured by the companies. 
The MMS audits the valuation estimates made by companies and challenges the 
estimates when it believes errors have been made. The process is characterized by 
continual disputes and is costly, both for the MMS and for the producing companies 
who must document and defend their valuation estimates. For this reason, MMS has 
considered collecting its royalties in kind rather than in value. By taking title to its 
royalty share of natural gas (or oil) it could in principle directly capture the market 
value of its royalty share, thereby eliminating disputes concerning how its royalty share 
is valued by the companies. As a result, both Ihe MMS and producing companies 
would save money emd resources. 

During 1995, the MMS conducted a pilot program in which it collected royalties 
in kind on natural gas production from a limited sample of offshore leases. MMS then 
sold its royalty sheire to private marketing firms which had bid on this gas. The aim of 
this pilot program was to assess the operational feasibility of collecting royalties in kind 
and, specific^y, to determine whether MMS would lose revenues by changing to a 
revenue-in-kind (RIK) system. The pilot program proved to be operationally feasible. 
However, in its review of the program the MMS concluded it was a revenue loser. 

MMS estimated that its revenues were 6.5% less than would have been collected imder 
the traditional valuation method. 

To determine whether its pilot program was revenue neutral, the MMS first 
estimated the price in each month that it needed to receive on its royalty production so 
that revenues would have been equivalent to what MMS would have received under the 
royalty valuation system. For each month in 1995, MMS applied the year-to-year trend 
in prices of production from leases not included in the pilot program to its royalty 
production, using as a base the monthly 1994 prices. The monthly 1994 prices were first 
adjusted upward by 3% to reflect the historical impact (as estimated by MMS) of audits. 
In comparing the prices it actually received in each month to these estimated prices, 
MMS concluded that its revenue loss amounted to 6.5%. 

This paper offers some comments on the MMS review of its pilot program and 
its finding that an RIK program would likely be a revenue loser. The conclusion to be 
drawn from these comments is that the option of collecting royalties in kind should not 
be rejected on the basis of this initial pilot program. 



149 


1. The benchmark used by MMS to determine whether its pilot program was revenue 
neutral was a point estimate of the revenues it would have collected under the 
traditional royalty valuation system. Given the uncertainties surrounding any 
forecast, it would have been more appropriate to forecast a range of revenues that 
would have been expected under the traditional royalty system . 

Normal variability and noise in data result in deviations from any point 
estimate. Given the volatility of gas prices, the vmcertainty surrounding the impact of 
future audits, and the limited (and nomepresentative) sample of leases in the pilot, any 
forecast of the revenue neutral price is bound to be uncertain itself. This is why 
forecasts typically include confidence intervals around any point esHmate. A 
confidence interval indicates the range of values which deviate from, but which, in the 
sense of statistical sigirificance, might be fully consistent with the forecast. Thus, it is 
entirely possible that a deviation of ±6.5% from MMS' point estimate is statistically 
consistent with revenue neutrality. And, as discussed below, several improvements in 
the RIK pilot would have increased revenues and reduced the estimated deviation, 
thereby increasing the likelihood that the program was in fact revenue neutral. 


2. The benchmark of revenue neutrality used by MMS is too narrowly defined and 
does not take into account the indirect impacts. A more broadly-defined benchmark 
might find that an RIK program yields more revenue than estimated by MMS. 

To determine whether the revenue collected from an RIK program would be 
acceptable, the MMS limited its focus to the flow of revenues on an existing sample of 
leases. The "test" concerned whether, during this one-year period, revenues on these 
leases were equivalent to an estimate of what would have been received had the 
traditional valuation process been in place. But this test ignores both indirect and 
longer term impacts. 

First, bonus bids for new leases would be higher under an RIK program since the 
administrative costs borne by lessees would be reduced. Reduced costs would increase 
the expected value of any lease and hence induce companies to bid more for the lease. 
Thus, the MMS would benefit from larger bonus bids. 

Even on existing leases, an RIK program would lower administrative costs. 

Since these are a function of the level of production, incentives at the nrargin would be 
improved. Lessees would find it profitable to keep wells in production longer than they 
otherwise would have. Thus, over the lifetime of a well, additional revenues for the 
MMS would be generated. The potential for such revenue is not included in the MMS 
revenue impact assessment 

The converse of this argument also holds. If MMS were to increase its effective 
royalty rate, its revenue from existing operations would increase. However, because the 
market for leases is compeHtive, the negative impact of higher royalty rates on 
production would result in lower bonus bids on new leases. And, reduced profitability 
would shorten ultimate production from existing leases, and hence the long term flow 
of royalty revenue to MMS also would be reduced. 


2 



150 


3. 1 ransportation costs on gathering lines are not a barrier to revenue neutrality 
when the concept of revenue neutrality is properly defined. 

A recurring theme in the assessment of the pilot program (by the MMS and by 
the Office of the Inspector General) is that transportation costs that private marketers 
must pay for transportation use of non-regulated gathering lines are a barrier to revenue 
neutrality. Under current regulations, gas producers who own gathering lines are 
limited to charging transportation rates which cover "actual costs" as defined by 
regulatory authorities. The MMS argues that if marketers must negotiate transportation 
rates with owners of gathering lines, then the amount they wUl bid will be accordingly 
reduced. Thus, the argument goes, MMS will receive less than it would imder the 
current valuation system given that the transportation charge that gets deducted from 
the royalty value of its gas is regulated. 

In part, the MMS seems to be saying that the pilot program worked in the sense 
that the firms which bid on its royalty gas were able to realize the true market value of 
the gas, but that the program was a revenue loser because regulatory treatment of 
transportation costs on some gathering lines provides the MMS with an advantage over 
private firms which must pay market rates for transportation. Removal of a regulatory 
advantage obviously would make it difficult for any RIK program to be revenue neutral, 
especially if the benchmark of revenue neutraUly is limited to a consideration of year-to- 
year flows in royalty revenue. But this merely says that the source of revenue loss to 
MMS is attributable to the removal of a regulatory advantage, not that marketers are 
incapable of realizing the market value of natural gas. 

More fundamentally, if the concept of revenue neutrality is expanded {as 
discussed above) so that it includes revenues received from producers from bonus bids 
and lifetime production, then higher transportation costs do not necessarily result in 
reduced revenues. If gas producers who own gathering lines find that they can charge 
more for transportation for the royalty portion of their gas, they will be induced to bid 
more for new leases. And, to the extent the profitability of production from existing 
leases is increased because owners can charge more for royalty gas transportation, they 
will have an incentive to extend the life of the well, thereby prolonging the flow of 
royalty payments to MMS. 

4. Larger gas packages would increase MMS revenues. 

In a review of the MMS pilot program, the Interior Department's Office of the 
Inspector General identified a number of changes that would have increased the flow of 
revenues. Perhaps the most important was the proposal to package gas volumes in 
larger sizes. The review found a direct correlation between bid prices and gas volumes. 
In fact, on the four bid groups which contained over 10,000 MMBtu per day, bid prices 
were almost 6 cents higher than the overall average bid. The average package contained 
about 4,800 MMBtu per day. 

To put this in perspective, recall that MMS estimated its loss at $0.0974 per 
MMBtu. TTre estimated percentage revenue loss was 6.5%, implying an average base 
price'of $1.4985 per MMBtu. If larger packaging could have reduced this loss by $0.06, 


3 



151 


the adjusted reduction in price (=$0.(B74) would have been just 2.5% under the revenue 
neutral base price. Obviously, the four bid groups comprising larger volumes do not 
make up a statistically significant sample. Nonetheless, the evidence suggests that this 
one change alone might go a long way toward making an RIK program revenue neutral, 
even when the concept of revenue neutrality is narrowly defined. 

5. The sample of leases in the pilot program was not representative of overall gas 
operations and the estimate of the revenue neutral price may be biased upward. 

Another potential problem with the pilot program is that the leases included in 
the pilot program were not representative of overall gas operations in the Gulf of 
Mexico. The leases were volunteered rather than selected at random A basic rule in 
any sampling procedure is to select at random Volunteers for a test may have a 
different set of incentives than the universe being sampled and hence the results can be 
biased. 


Another indication that the leases in the pilot were not representative is the fact 
that the January 1994 price received for gas not included in the pilot averaged $2,139 per 
MMBtu whereas the price received for gais which subsequently was included in the pilot 
was just $2,063 (even after increasing the actual price upward by 3% to adjust for the 
assumed impact of future audits). 

If gas which is valued less highly is susceptible to more volatile price 
movements, then the fact that average gas prices fell by 22.6% between 1994 and 1995 
means that the price for gas production that was part of the pilot program would have 
declined more than 22.6%. In such a case, the MMS estimate of what constitutes the 
revenue neutral price for 1995 is too high. In turn, this means that the price actually 
paid was closer to being what the MMS would have received under the current 
valuation system Thus, this factor also might have caused the pilot program to be more 
revenue neutral than MMS believes. 

6. Administrative cost savings could well be larger than what is estimated by MMS. 

There is every reason to believe that the government administrative cost savings 
from a permanent and all-inclusive RIK program are larger than what is projected by 
MMS. The full impact of regulatory change can take a considerable period of time as 
regulated entities eventually find new, more efficient practices. Estimating 
administrative cost savings by simply assuming that fewer employees are required does 
capture the potential gains from new practices. At a minimum, an independent 
assessment of potential savings is required. Such em assessment should provide a range 
of potential savings rather than a point estimate. 

7. Changes in a new pilot RIK program would further contribute to revenue 
neutrality. 

The Department of Interiori s Office of Inspector General identified several other 
changes that should result in increased revenues for MMS. The review by this office 
found that the lack of guaranteed gas volumes in the original pilot resulted in lower bid 


4 



152 


prices. By withholding some gas, the MMS could develop a reserve to cover unexpected 
reductions in production. Such reductions make it more costly for marketers to cover 
their commitments and hence they bid less than they would if they knew they could 
draw on this reserve gas supply. In addition, many of the participants argued that 
allowing a longer period to formulate bids would result in higher bids as those bidding 
would have more time to gather information. 

Finally, MMS could experiment with different bidding procedures. For example, 
it could try a two-round bidding process whereby the top three or so bidders have the 
opportunity to submit their best and final offer. This might result in higher prices. 


DN: worddocsXmmspilot; 7-23-97 


5 



153 


For the record I would like to indicate that several 
endorse my written comments; including ; 

Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Association 

National Ocean Industries Association 

Independent Petroleum Association of America 


associations wish to 

RMOGA 

NOIA 

IPAA 



154 


Written statement by 
Sue Ann Hamni 

Vice President, Crude Oii Marketing 
Continentai Resources, Inc. 

Representing 

Independent Petroleum Association of America (IPAA) 
Oklahoma Independent Producers Association (OIPA) 
before the 

Committee on Resources 
Subcommitlee on Energy and Mineral Resources 
U.S. House of Resources 
July 31, 1997 


Dear Madam Chairwoman and Members of the Committee: 

I am Sue Ann Hamm, vice president of Crude Oil Marketing for Continental Resources 
Inc, (ContinentaJ), a privately held, independent producer who has federal onshore production. I 
am here today on behalf of Continental, IPAA and OIPA 

Continental is an exploration company. We have under contract eight or more rigs year 
round, drilling about 80 weQs a year. Our exploration budget for 1996 was over $50,000,000 and 
is even greater for 1997. Most of the wells we drill arc in the Rockies, and are what is known 
as horizontal wells. They are drilled to a vertical depth of 8,500, and then to a horizontal depth of 
8,000 feet. We are able to do this through the availability of new technology, which allows us to 
drill areas which formerly did not have an acceptable rate of return This opportunity also exists 
for the federal government and states. 

Two years ago I began the crude oil marketing department for Continental. 1 have also 
built and managed gas marketing departments for two different companies. I have found that 
taking an active part in marketing our production can create a greater return than sitting back and 
accepting offers gti'en us. By assuming downstream costs and risks, one can create higher prices. 

In marketing our oil, I look for the highest net rcrum. In the past, w'e sold our oil ai the 
wellhead. I have found that our company is able to realize a higher average price per barrel by 
maidiig all the transportation airangements, exchanges and then final sales to refineries. We have 
even built our own gathering systems where we found this to lower our transportation costs. 

When we first began to take our marketing efforts downstream, we encountered a great deal more 
risks and costs than we had anticipated. However, over the long run, we have been able to realize 
a higher net price for otir oil. We have a number of ways to measure this. Because we are in the 
market, we know the price others are presently receiving for like production. 



155 


When reviewing wellhead pricee, we realized that with the greater risks, end by accepting 
marketing costs, we might be able to realize greater rewards. We were willing to take those risks. 
We hired a marketing consultant He helped us move downstream in our marketing eiforts. He 
advised us on the systems we needed in place to handle the sales each month. Scheduling and 
s eining the correct volume for the following month still remains a challenge. It is veiy difficuh to 
predict for fiilure months the volume which will be produced and delivered into pipeines and 
trucks. There is always a deviation from the actual production volume However, since we began 
to build inventoiy in the pipelines on which we transport, we have been able to deal with swing 
volumes much more efficiently, and with less cost. 

As we have became more sophisticated in our marketing eflbrts, we began to take in kind 
the oil and gas from our outside operated imerests. This is somewhat analogous to the situation 
MMS would be in where it would take its royalty production from wells which h did not operate. 

It is more difficult to set up taking in kind production from a well we do not operate. If the well 
is not very prolific. 

To determine whether it is economical for us to take in kind our production, we look to a 
number of factors. The first is what the transponation costs are to get the production to a market 
center. The second is what the prices are downstream . The third is wbat price/prices will 
purchasers offer to take the production at the wellhead. The fourth is what price are we receiving 
through the operator. One factor we do not even consider is what price is the operator receiving 
through his contract and are we receiving all of that We do not consider audits a value enhancing 
measure. It is more like a dollar chasing a quarter. After we consider all the factors, we choose 
the method through which we will receive the highest price. Sometimes we simply opt to let the 
operator continue marketing the production for us, and paving us our proportionate share of the 
revenue they receive. Other times we take it in kind. These are very simple economics. 

We produce approximately fifteen thousand barrels a day of oil. This is 6.86% of MMS s 
royalty volume. We produce 75,000 mcfofgas per day. This is 2.92% of MMS’s royalty gas. 

Of this total production, less than 200 equivalent barrels per day of oil are federal royalty barrels. 
Obviously this is a negligible amount for us. 

The question then, is, why are we even interested in the issue of federal royalty 
production if, ‘Ve do not have a dog in this fight”. We prefer to take the broader view, as 
Madam Chairwoman has recommended. This is to stay involved, even on issues which do not 
presently affect us, MMS does not operate in a bubble. There is a ripple effect as a r^t of any 
of their actions. If there actions are inequitable, then this will necessarily have a negative impact 
on the entire domestic oU industry. This concerns us. 

The present situation between MMS and the oil and gas industry has to be one of the most 
adversarial relationships of any agency and its related industry in the United States. It has become 
so much so, that many companies do not allow their executives to speak with an MMS 
representative without a lawyer by his side. This must be changed. The domestic oil and gas 



156 


industry cannot survH'e with this exlrenroly aggressive government supervision and oversight. 
RecogniziQg this, our company looked to an altemaiive which could refocus efforts from 

one of taking reactive measures, to one of taking proactive measures. This is how we run our 
business. It should also be so with the government’s toineral revenue martageraent. 

Because our exploration efforts were extending into the northernmost parts of the United 
States, we began to look at Canada as our next frontier. To leam of any potential problems we 
might encounter with oil pricing and marketing, I took a trip to Calgary to become acquainted 
uith the Canadian producers and leam about their oil marketing methods. Knowing that the 
Crown owned a great part of Canada, I was concerned about the problems associated with 
working with the govenunent, and paying for its royalty share of production. This, of course, 
assuming we would be successful in our exploration efforts. We wanted our only risk to be 
exploring for oil. We did not intend to assume the risk of pricing the government’s royalty 
production. The companies I met assured me that marketing the Crown’s oil was not a problem. 
An act had been passed which required the government’s agency, Albena Energy, to take the 
Crown’s oil in kind. The act is titled “Petroleum Marketing Act”. Through this, the producer 
was relieved of any funher liability once he delivers the production to the Crown’s representative. 
Alberta Energy is required to take its oil in kind, and is given broad powers regarding marketing 
the oil. A copy of this act is attached . 

To further explore the impact of this act, I met with representatives of the crude oil 
marketing department for a Canadian producer. They are a large producer and one of three 
contracting agents for the Crown's royalty oil. We discussed the various aspects of their 
arrangement with Alberta Energy. They found the contract to be financially rewarding for a 
number of reasons. Because they were already marketing their own oil, they had the expertise 
and the systems in place to take on and market additional oil. .Any additional oil to market 
enjoyed their economies of scale. The five cent marketing fee paid by Alberta Energy covered 
any additional cost to market the Crown’s oil, and provided an acceptable return. Once their 
contract expires, they indicated they intend to place a bid once again. 

Several of the employees with the Canadian producer’s marketing department had worked 
for Alberta Energy prior to hs privatiaacion of crude oil marketing. They had been able to bring 
to the producer their knowledge of the agency's production and procedures, ll was suggested I 
speak with Don OlLneck, the director of crude oil marketing for AJberta Energy. I met with Don 
and found him to be very knowledgeable of crude oil marketing, and a true systems expert for the 
aggregating and tracking of the Crown’s royalty production. He created the system within 
.Alberta Energy which aggregates and traces the oil to the point where revenue is received. This 
system is so cfScient that it utilizes only 33 employees for the management of 146,000 barrels of 
oil per day. This is in comparison to MMS’s approximately 1800 employees managing the 
revenue from 204,000 barrels of oil per day and 2,565,636 mef per day. It must be 
pointed out, however, that of these 1800 employees, a number are involved in leasing offshore 
activities. Obviously. Alberta Energy has a more efficient method for managing its royalty 
revenue. Even if the two methods, ours and .Alberta’s, are revenue neutral, there would be 



157 


tremendous cost savings by using Alberta’s, this would result in higher net payment for all the 
recipients of federal royalty produaion revenue. 

Don Olineck assured me that Alberta Energy is very pleased with its method of oil 
marketing. It is simple and certain. Simple in the fact that a minimum number of employees are 
required to administer the program, and certain in the feet that it is receiving the market price for 
its oil. 


Can This royalty in kind program work for the U.S.? It most certainly can. Canada’s 
royalty in kind program fulfills all the principles agreed to by the industry royalty in kind 
workgroup of which I am a participant. As a producer and marketer, I know that it is workable in 
the U.S. After speaking with Don Olineck, I know that it is workable from the government’s 
perspective. 


Arguments have been raised that there is no comparison between Alberta’s oil production 
and MMS’s production. I must differ with these arguments. There are great similarities. The 
volumes are similar. MMS manages 204,000 barrels a day, compared to Alberta Energy’s 
146,000. Geographic diversity is similar. All of Alberta’s is, of course, in Alberta, a province 
much smaller than the U. S. However, 77% of MMS’s volume is in the Gulf of Mexico, a 
geographic area much smaller than Alberta. The number of different producing leases is similar. 
MMS has 70.000 held by production leases, 25,000 of which are active. This is compared to 
Alberta’s 63,000 held by production leases, 30,000 of which are active Finally, the number of 
operators is not all that great a difference. MMS has 2,000 producing operators while Alberta has 
500. 


As you can see. the differences between the two countries’ production is not all that great. 
However, as pointed out earlier, the difference in the methods is night and day. with dramatic 
differences in the number of employees. My point is not that Albcna Energy has better 
employees. The point is thai AJterta Energy employees have a better, more efficient system to 
work with. 

Even with all MMS employees, the perception of some is that MMS is not receiving the 
market price for its production The solution is not to write and implemem more complex and 
controversial rules in the valuation of oil and gas. rules that force wellhead producers 
to use downstream values at no cost to the lessor. This would only add more employees, and 
would not necessarily result in any higher price. The MMS needs to consider RIK— RffC the 
Alberta way. 

To follow the Alberta program, MMS would have to take its production at the wellhead. 
There, the operator would deliver to MMS’s designated representative the royalty volume. The 
operator would coiuinue to deliver to his own purchaser his share of the volume. The only 
difference from the operator’s currem methods would be to carve out the royalty share of volume. 



158 


as opposed to the royalty share of value. By carving out the royalty share of volume, a number of 
accounting steps would be eliminaled for the operator. This should make the program attractive 
to operators. 

After taking delivery at the wellhead, MMS’s representative would have to negotiate the 
necessary transportatioa and exchanges to a market center, or to an individual purchaser. From 
there, the representative would determine whether the price is higher at the market center, or 
whether it needs to transport or exchange to another market center, or enduser. As a producer 
and marketer, we have to arrange and pay for a number of transportation routes and exchanges, 
and we do this for approximately 1,000 leases. We do this with two employees. MMS’s 
representatives would have to do this for up to 25,000 leases. Tlus is possible. The set up cost 
would be high. But no higher than paying salaries and overhead for ten times too many 
employees as is the current situation. 

Don Olineck has offered to assist in any way necessary to help MMS set up this program 
Industry is also a good source for MMS to utilize. In order to stay in business in the current oil 
and gas environment, companies must maximize their revenue and minimize their costs. We are 
experts at this. As stated before, our company cannot afford to spend a dollar chasing a quarter. 
Neither should MMS. Let us help MMS develop their program. 

I am a member of the industry RIK workgroup. We have come a long way in agreeing to 
the principles of an RDC program. There are still some design issues to resolve. Transportation is 
a big issue. MMS representatives have stated on numerous occasions that transportation is a big 
hurdle. Maybe so It can be overcome. We need some input from MMS. What is their comfort 
zone for transportation rates on pipelines? For regulated pipelines, is it a FERC approved rate? 
For unregulated pipelines, is it whatever the market will bear? Or is it some predetenmned rate? 

A number of solutions have been discussed None have been agreed upon. There is a solution. 
We can find it if we all work together on this one. 

Another issue which has been agreed upon is to give the states the right to take their share 
of the production in kind. It is realized that this may have to be done legislatively. This would be 
to guarantee the sraies the full right to take their production in Idnd. Industry is in fiJl support of 
this. The only condition is that the entire federal royalty stream be taken, be it by the federal 
government, state government, or both. Another item agreed upon was that all the states need to 
adhere to common principles for any state taking its royalty in kind lOGCC could be designated 
as the body to organize this. 

Obviously the present royalty system is not working. There is no reason to believe more 
Riles can fix it. MMS cannot hire enough auditors to assure it that it is receiving true market 
value. A pilot project has been suggested by MMS. They are apparently apprehensive about 
takmg aft their royalty in kind. Why? If they are afraid it will M if they take it all on at once, 
then I offer the following suggestion. Begin now developing and designing the system, a system 
for success. There is enough expertise out there to build a program that works, if given the 



159 


appropriate tune and attention. Have a goal of a year from now to begin an in-ldnd program, tf 
all parties can agree to an appropriate design. This is a large undertaking. It is not 
insunnountable. We, industry, do it all the time. We can help. 

It has been questioned whether it would be possible for MMS to take its od in kind from 
leases which have no pipeline connection and are trucked. Yes, it is possible. hdMS’s 
representative could contract with the current trucking company to haul MMS’s oil also. The 
trucking company would then deliver the oil into the same pipeline it was already using, giving 
MMS credit for its volume. MMS’s representative would take the oil from there With some 
production, MMS’s representative will, out of economic necessity, use the current transporter of 
production, whether it is oil or gas, or trucked or piped. In this manner, MMS is bound by 
economics the same as any other nonoperating interest. 

A technical issue involves MMS's representative scheduling and selling the correct volume 
for the following month. All marketers have to deal whh this uncertainty. MMS would have to 
build inventoiy on the pipelines which its production is transported. These volumes could be used 
as swing volumes for any shortages of MMS production This costs money, however. 

Sometiines as much as fifteen days production. This is only one of the costs which MMS must 
incur in order to take advantage of downstream markwing opportunities. 

A final issue which needs to be resolved is whether MMS or the private sector wdi 
perform the marketing functions. This answer is easy. MMS should competitively bid out the 
marketing function of its royalty to the private sector. This solution has industry support . MMS 
would take custody of its royalty volume at the wellhead and could then turn the production over 
to rts representative. Criteria for determination of the successful bidders who become MMS 
representatives is yet to be developed. Once again, we look to Alberta s criteria for choosing the 
successful bidder. FoUowing Alberta Er^rgy’s scenario, the bidder, if chosen, commingles MMS 
royalty production svith its own at the market center. The chosen bidder shares with MMS its 
proportionate share of all revenue, less actual costs, on the final sale of the commingled 
production. MMS would have the full right to audit this marketer. It would also receive copies 
of all contracts regarding production sales or exchanges. The marketing arrangements would be 
totally transparent for MMS to follow. In remm, the marketer would be paid a marketing fee. 
MMS would narrow its number of operators to audit from 2,000 down to a ftactipn of this 
number. The number would be determined by the way production is divided geographically, type 
(oil or gas), and quality. MMS should have no shortage of bidders to market 
its oil. The MMS opportunities for net increases in revenues could be tremendous after costs and 
risks. Potential exists due to aggregating of large volumes and downstreaming marketing 
activities. 

In the past, MMS has attempted a pilot RDC project. According to MMS, this has been a 
feilure. From what 1 have learned of these projects, MMS did nothing more than offer to parties 
the royalty production at the wellhead MMS wanted a sure price right then. This is called 

hedging. Sometiines you win, sometimes you lose. It depends on which way the market goes. 



160 


This type RDC is not what we are proposing. This project was doomed to feilure for other 
reasons also. MMS unhitentionally restricted bidding through design flaws. Simple economics 
show the more buyers there are, the higher the price MMS took none of the downstream risks. 
Accordingly, it received none of the dow-nstream opportunities. 

The industry RIK workgroup is preparing a list of design guidelines to implementing an 
RIK program. This list will be submitted to the Subcommittee, hopefully within ninety daj's. For 
a number of reasons, the guidelines should be carefully considered. The vast knowledge and 
marketing expertise which is behind the preparation of the guideline is of great value to the 
government. The guiddinc report includes state involvement and has lOGCC support. It will 
have industry support. With our help. RIK wiH work. 

Please accept my offer to help, as well as IPAA’s and OIP.A’s, in any way possible, in 
attempting to design and advance an RBK. program for Federal royalty production. 



161 


Statement for the Record 
Sue Ann Hamm 
Continental Resources, Inc. 
before the 

Committee on Resources 
Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 
U S. House of Representatives 
July 31, 1997 

Independent Petroleum Association of America 
Oklahoma Independent Petroleum Association 
Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Association 



162 




163 


NOTE j 

All pctsoDS iii^dnj[ usti of ttus axisoitdation amc rnnindcd that It vo 
tegulaiivc sanction, »fan the smcadtnonis have ben tsnbodied fex cxmvcrtiencc 
of l e fip n c e only, snd that the odfinal Acts s^iooW- be axMlited for sJl 
pmposcs of intcrpicUng and applying the law. 



164 


PEmOUEUM MARKETING ACT 
CHAPTB<(V5 

Tahlt of Contoftt 

t yfinirirmc 1 

Patl 

Aibcttk Fe<iT:)oim Mateting CO(nilii«$iOD 

AIb«a PefiDteasi Mskctisg Comaiissian 2 

Comaasaoo lacet itt g* 3 

Of&ces 4 

By-laws 5 

OfBcds and ODptoyces 6 

D tk* gatiwi 

OMtaOBsioa as Crown «g^ 7 

I^Qsiaas 8 

Hscalycaur 9 

Aucfiior 10 

AnmuJscptxt 

fiaaedug 17 

Gcacol powers 13 

I>«rt2 

Mwtaeong of the Crown’s Royjity Shsfc of Cmdc Oil 

Defimrioos 1^ 

Murtiting of Crown's roysJiy »*>a»e 15 

i>iiisctionroinsrciratorscor;c»adedl 15 

IXspo*ibonofsalcspro«*ds 

Dddjargoaodrcfxxtiag 18 

Rognijskxis 19 


OPB majesty, by and wiit tbe advice and coEsent of itic 

LegUlstive Asseotbly of Alberta, esacts as follows: 

SeMSm ^ In this Act, 

(a) “CocunissKXj’’ raaos the Alberta Petrotaan Ma«tet>ag 
CoounisEum; 


1 



165 


AKiorta 

Pt^niauta 

UaAatin^ 

Cenvnisnon 


CnnniBi fa o 

m—llnji; 


C^P-5 F^OLeUMMARKETlNC aSA 1380 


(b) “Department" ni«:M6th6l><p*itiiieat cal' Energy; 

(c) “Minuter'’ means die MSnister of IBnergy; 

Cd) “pcolapes plus" means pcaam es pltu as deSned in 
ret^daiions toder tbe Afinei and Mmtrah Act mpecdns 
royalty. 

aSA I««6cr-Ssl;19<3c40<2J9WcO-l$J lU 


PAHTI 

ALBERTA PETROLEUM MARKETING COMMSSION 

2(1) There is hereby created a ooiponrtiofiwUir tile □3ine‘'AJberU 
B e troteum Marketi ng Contcgsaon"wfaiehihiflcoiisist of not more 
than 3 tnernbeis appointed by the Li enteoant Covemia is CoundL 

(1^ TheljeuteruatGoyeroorifiCouncQ 

(a) shall dcsi^ine ooe of the membets of the Commission as 
chanroao and another m vice-chairman; 


(fa) mayjpcescxibe (he term of office ofanyioeiiibet or the tean 
of omen of the chainnan or viee-chaimun; 

(c) preacribe Ae rates of icanmcranon to be paid by the 

C ntn miTOin n tn the memh erl tt( dv Pnmrmtrmn 

C3) The memben of the CommisSiOii dall be paid by the 
Canmassoa duar reasonable traveling aad living expenses while 
abs en t from theier otdioaiy place of residence and ia the ooonc of 
tbeir (htties ax raendien of tto Coininissioo, in accordance with the 
by-laws cS the Coonnisaoe. 

(4) TfK-vice-chaiaaan of the Commission shall exercise aad perform 

the powers aad dudes of the chainnan in the cvetd of tfac absence or 

mahility to act of the chairman or a vacancy in the ohSce of chainnao. 

USA 19«>cf-5 jzaws C13 s5 


3(1) Subject » wbtection (2X a mqoriiy of the tnembets of the 

Cotzunisskra cotudioiex a qeocum at a fflcstisg of Ac Consnisdim. 


tfooeorZ vacancies occar in fee mmnbcrsfaip of the Cnmmtssnia 
ffiA fyfiwrromg twmhws or mpTiher. as thccBse may be. inxy cxctcise 
an ibe powezs of (he Cctnnnssion. 


(3) At hs meetings, (he ConmusBoniiuycxcicisc any of its powers 
by lesohition except when some otber mode of exerctsiiig the power 

is pc csc ribed in this or any other Act 

USA 1910 d>-5»3;lM5el3t5 


2 



166 


(MfiSM 


By^dwa 


Offosfsaad 

«rjptojr*«- 


DulmyHnn 


Cantnaaian 

acCromn 

agent 


Faaljaae 


SSA19S0 PEI»?miMMASKEnNG Obfj-P.S 


4(1) The head office, of tfaeOonmriwioosbaP beat a plane in Alberta 
ttoignatf^ by ftcLiei<left«nf Governor in ConndL 

(2) ibcCofflmutiaainayestablii^aDyatheriTCfKesaiidBgcaciesit 
considers cspediciii. 

KSA IW0C}VS»4 

5 ( 1 ) The Cat ronis sion may nakc by-laws r wprrtin g Ate caning of 
Bieetmgs of the CQainiissM& jsd the condoclof busaesat (iieni, tbe 
duies and condoct of members aod gcaezalfy as to die cooduci of tbc 
busmesa and afEiiis of tbe Comntisaoft. 

(2) The Jtamleaians Act anpluis to by-Uws of tbe Coausdsaon. 

USA IMO tfS ti 

6(1) The Cormni«ion may appoint any offieers and etnployces it 
coisidera necessary aod prescribe their duties and their salaries or 
lemnaeeadaa 

C2) Tbe Commisakai may obtain tbe tcivkci of any Bgems or 
advisers or persons piDvxhng technical or proftssiona] tervicts of a 
idad requited by the CoQinnssioa m connection with ha bostoEss and 

aShxrs. 

llSAl«0cf-S»6 

6,1 The rnmitiitgmt oay in writiag d ele g a te any power, duty or 
fttncdon cosfened or impoaed on it by thia Act or any other Act or 
any icgulatioo to any petsoo. 

l99Scl3i5 

7(1) The Cooimission is fee all pnt pos c s an agent of the Crown in 

right of Alberta tod its powers may csercised only as ffli aeeot of 
the Crown in right of Alberta. 

(2) An aeden or odkcr Icpd proceeding in respect of any right or 
obtigatwn acquited or iacwied by the CommUsion oo behalf of the 

ia righ t of Alberta, whether ic its nattic or in dbc name of ibe 

Crown in ligju of Alberta, may be brought or taken by or as*«« 

indae erf the Oomsisssaorti in any cooit that would 

lKv«iariedictk>aif(hBCoiim]Biioit were Aot an ascot of the Ctown. 

^ nsAiywrf-ser 


6 Repealed 1984 cP-3S.lt51. 

9 The fiscal year of the Caninissiot>i« the calendar year, mileas 

odierwise prescribed by the Tifsiinijint Goveroor irt Cn t uiril 


3 



167 


Audbx 


Annal ictx^ 


Financing 


Ch^ P-S PCnUXEUM MASKBnNG 19*0 


10 The Andhcr General is Gic audicy of tfie Cnnrmii^ion. 

SSA19Sac{>-S>tO 


11(1) The Camcomionsitallaisiaallr, after tile end of its fiscal year, 
jM C fjait; a gcaccal t e {icu.t smmnanelAg its tixnsas^iooa aad afbks 
dtHxog its last focal year and shownie the revesacs and escpentiiiures 
thniiis that fieriod, aa aodited balance sheet and (mjr other 
iaformatkm that tite UeuteaaM GovenKsr in ConocO may reqtsire, 

(2) When theteport c ta epae ei l. the Mmirtef shall lay a copy of it 
hettatetheLegi^lariveAsseinbiy if itjsthensiaineapdtf tg>t, wiitiia 
15 days of the oofmaeacemeat of the next ensdog sitnng. 

KnA.l90Oc{^S«ll 

12(1) The Proviodal Treasurer pay to the Cofanrisskn the 
moxrey eoted by tbr: Ixfislatsfe fbi the psirpcscs of the CoGtmission 
in equal mcmihly icstBlzoents unless othezWise i£re<d between the 


(2) If ibe money voted by the Legklatnie for the pmpeaes of the 
Comtniiiioa is not tuffirirsiT for the Cnmmiwian to mczi its 

obliptfioits as they become doe, the Lieutenmt Governor in Cooccil 

may anthorize the ftrmacul lyeasnrer to maJte payments to the 
Cotannssion from the General Revenue Foncl. 

(3) Xbe Comniissioii, with the approval of the Minister and to the 
yiirynt pennitBed by the Minister. 

(a) may from tin^ to tfriw. borrow ntoocy from any person or 
enter iirn overdraft atTasgciBetits with a bank, ci treasury 
briBch. for the poqroac of meeting its ohijgaiioQs as they 
become due. Hid 

(b) n»y give security fee the repaymenc of thai money- 
ed) The lieoJEJuntCioveiaor in Couwaliiiflyaiaboiiic the Provincial 

Tteastirer to guarantee oo behalf of the Oown in ri^ of Alberta the 

lepaymeot of any inoncy bonowod by the COnnttiwoo porsaain to 
subseeboa (3) aod ioteroton that money. 

(5) After the eod of ewch &eal year of the Commissioo, the 
Comrnissioa shaB, when teqoesW to do so by the Provincial 
TtcMtcr atid to accordance with his dkcctioos. pay to the Pro vincial 
TteasBiex fr* deposit in tbs General Rtofoone Fuad the net profit of 
the Ctomniisrian Ibf the jmxedios fiscal year or the part of that net 
profH ipedfied by the IfroviHcia) Tycasttrer. 


4 



168 


POuers 




Clown's 

nyi%6Mrs 


RSA19S0 PeniOLEUM MiuUCertNG CIttp.r-9 


13 ( 1 ) TheCoi&ffiusiori)BStiiccq)adty*ftd,tobjeatotlusAct.the 
rigilts. p O » m ^nd priviloges Of s natmal perso n. 

(2) The Comnnssioii, in tfae conduct of to tnrgnftCTOTrfaeStire. may 
cjieccise is rights, powers aod privilc^ in the coone of 

(a) caoyittgoe (ho business of ac<iuitiog.sefiing and exchanging 
cmdeosi.conifejqtr. sad synfcaic orate oil and prodacts of 
any of them and ciigagiag in activities telated or iaddcotal 
to ciuu boriness. 

(b) ezerdsing and pa for m ing its fmatcoos under this or any 
other enactmcBt xid 

(c) acting in any odier circainstaaces as an agent of the Crown 
in right of Albetta. 

RSA 1K0sf>^ (13^986 c29 cht942 e28 s2 

PAtrr2 

MAflKETIMG OF THE CROWN'S ROYALTY 
8HAREOF CRUDE OIL 

14 iDtitisPart. 

(a) ■^#giecinertriiicansafcase.ljcw«:.pcit3ikoin»cr»acionof 
petrolcom arid naniial gas righa or pceohamt rights ixncd 
pursuant to die Mows <z)id ifoiemir Ae/ or its predecessors 
and to which sectioo i 17 of the Motes and Minaais Act. 
applies; 

(a.1) “entde oir means the crude oil coaproienr. of pcaoteian: 

(b) 'leasee*' means tbchnidci of an agreeaienrsccotditig to the 
cecotds of the DepwmeoL 

RSA 19*0 rf.5 *I A;t986 c29 *2 

15(1) Subject to (he regolatioDs, the Coinmisrioo 

(a) eball yggpt delivery vriOnn Alberta of the Crowa's royalty 
chare of the crade oil r ecov er ed pursuant to an agrtxnicac 
sndmjwied to bedefivoed toil by soctiofi 1 17 of the hftAcs 
andM 'm^raUAct, and 

(b) sballaeU the Crown's royalty share of erode oil at a price dial 
is in the pubhc (irtERCt of Alberts. 

(2) Keseried I992c21s3. 

RSA WeaeP-S •t5;I9*« C»12;1W2 c2» O 


5 



169 


Diwottonto . 

tranBaHtf 

aamciwlBoi 


gk>8 p iOC fco^t 


Chap-P-S I^racajeOMMAMaElWG RSA1980 


16(1) WIiCD tiic CdimnisslQfl tvhbcs to amoge for the tUjntB^ of 
awfe Oil ddivereil to it pucsoant to SBCtioa IS, tbc: CommissioB may 

(«) dttect the operator of a pipeHte to transmit Accnde 03 b; 
hgpjpclmetogBongcfaciliry wADxaradfrignatedby the 
Co mmitti oB oc to a poist jo AlbetLi d caifflu ted tbe 
Cosubissiaa that iscamute to a starry &dl^, or 

(b) sniijest: to subscctkot (2), direct the owoer of any stocage 
ftctlijy in Alberta to acc^ the erode oil for stnragB and to 
store it in that storage ftcililj', 

snl^ect to the payniebt of cornpeesatios for it by the Ccanmission in 
accordance subsection (3) or (4). 

(2) Tlw Commission sfasS not make a diitcaon rada aibsrrtioa 
(l)(b) in respect of a Stonge faciiity consntnig of as takdergroond 
fatmatiix] oiilcB an approval has been pererioasiy obtuned from tbe 

Energy Resooiocs CoiWervaxian Board pursoant to sectioo 26(1 X<i) 

of die Oiland Gas CanservadonAct 

(3) Wbcna.directiaoistnadebydieConinussionuDdcrstabsectiDii 
(IXa) and Ate Catanthsioa is iinabic to teach an agtt cmc at with the 
owner or t^etstor of the japeline as to the just and reasoaable chaigcs 
to be paid ^ the Coouttisswa for Ihctntisinssioncf the erode oil by 
that lupdioe^ section 1 01 of the /’tthhc fyiziizter &>anf Act applies. 

(4) WhenaditcctuM iscnadebytbcCoinmisaionuiidcrsijbsectioii 

(l)(b) and dtc Commission is unable to reach an agiettneot with the 
nwwrr Of j Snrnf ifar -<nrage f»g»Kty fts to the jafl and rca son a h le 

charges to be paid by nc Conunissioo 4or the oorage of the crude odl, 
dif.THihtieTlbTifirisBosnimay. ondie^ipiicatian of the Conrmfrooa 
or tbc odier party to the disiHitc, fix those Stonge dsages. 

(5) A person who docs not comply wilh a direchon given m him by 
-die Cotnmisxion sabsecdon (1) is guilty of an rdfencc acd 
tiahle to a fine not rrnreding $5000 each day that the failure of 
compliance cond owes. 

(6) ffapetaon dots wacosnpiy with a direction givea to him by tbc 
Commisaon under subseOioD (1 }, diefl, whetlKr or not he has beca 
convicted of an offen ce muier subsection (SX the Camniiasion may 
by originating notice apply to the Ctnrt of Queen's Bench for an 
order Trqniiing that petsoo to comply with the direetjon. 

aSA WiO cP-5 .16:1986 c29 iiiwz t28 Vi 


17 IheCommissioastiaB pay the proceeds of safes of cradc oil by 
it undo’ dns intiie PnrrhKial Trtasiira' for deposit ifiibe Geaml 
Bevenoc Pomd an accordance with the di irr'Ji on t t of the Provincial 
Tieasnrer. 

' {tSA19«aei>d(nj9a6e2»t2 


8 



170 


BSA]9«0 PETROLEUM MARKETING Cii^P-S 


Dtetw^and 

mopoitilio 


190 ) Sttbjcct to tfag aecOOB. thedeKwgy tottc Commi Mioo of Ac 
Gown's lojulty shore of crude oil recovered i > ws«.yi t to an 
a gt oe i ncat operates CO disduree the teieewMiieyect 10 his liabiliiTy 
Co pay ihir royally to the Grcm in zijttt Albeitt. 


(2) The LitaiteiianC Governor in Cou n c il may maheiegulaCiocs 


(a) fEspccoo£ Bfocnulioa to he fuinwiiftl to the Cnmniissioii, 
tbc penoas reqidmi to funiah ibat infocnuitio&, the foon in 

<v>iTr^lriiMf f i| f ipiw»rir»i»TVKr li^fiiniHhl»rf J<v<ttl^tiwv»unrhin 

whiefa the mfonnaiioa autst be thraished; 

' (b) lespectiiig the xtBpcoition of pecamnypcDaitics payable to 
the CoouBissioii. ihc cacu natonc e s m wMcb (be penalties 
nay be iofosed, the petsoos babic to pay ibe penahiee aad 
the time by wbteh the penalties nmst be paid; 

(o) recpecting ibe icxpecdvc rights, poweis, liabilaies and 
ob&gafioas of the Cofflaiissioo« lessees and oCbcn ia tbc 
event tbal the quantity of crxle ad dclivoed to the 
Comiitissos aader tins Pst in a nootb is less than or greaoet 
than the Crown's royalty share of the crude od actually 
payable ia KSpeer of (bal aonfii. 

(3) Witboot litmong tbc powers of tbt LiaateBtmi Governor in 
Cootsal noder snhsretioa (ZXc)) TCgalatioTis s»y be nude mder that 

(a) respecting tbc p ow ers of the Commissioii, in (be eveai of a 
deficiency in deliveries of the qaaDBXy of the Crown's 
loyalty abate of crude oil under an agreenxal in a month, 
soTwithsUadmg scctioa 117 offbtiMinaaiidMpurcJsAcl, 

<i) to ttszptibepayiiieat of mooeym lieu of delivery of 
die de fi cicot qunlity, or 

(ii) todhccatbepayioeMtotbeCoaimissiooafanatnotist 
of lEOaey iVtrrmhifd by it in accordance with the 
regnlaCioos as the vahie to (be CiowB of dK deficieat 
qusatity: 

(b) lEspectiiig (be powers of tbc Crinunission. in (be event of 
deliveries of entde oil to tbc Coomtuaon ia a moolfa in 
ateeas of (be qnaatity of Ibe OtowB 's royalty liian! of crude 
oil for dot nwotb. to act as (be agret of Ac owner of tbc 

quantity lat (be sale and delivety of the cseess 

q nanriT ymappTchaterm a cco nfa nicewiriithefegiilafioBS. 

(4) Where nasals paid to tbc Commiaaion pursuant to icgulatioiu 
rm/iw siibaeerinn OXaX 


7 



171 


Cht?. f-5 perttOLHIM MASKETtMC RSA 19«0 


(tt) (lieinoae^rslullbedecaicdlobcpeQraUeaDderanaQKenKoi 

andtobe p ro3eBfafiom»l»et«fcofaiiticoilfbr(hep<»pocc-s 
af sedioa nandstallfDr^odierpuipijsesbedMmcdtofcc 
a moDcy ttyytify parable tm etude oil imdccaa agmnent 
■ed 

(b) tbeiuQmicntoftiKiQoaeyopezatestodbcfasts^tbcicoeeof 
an a g r ecmoi t with reepect to the lessce ‘1 liabilky to pay 
xoyal^ cft emde oil to the Chnni in tight of Alboia to ttte 
extect that the money trpiwmts the traloe of dtctoyaJty on 
etude oU as detennmed vDtdcT the Kguledou. 

(S) A lailme to comply witb ibe tc;gii]atLam ttader this sectuxL in 

leapectofasagieemastshall, for the pnipote* of sectiaa 44(lXoXi) 

Mines and Minerals Act, bedeersicdto bceftilorctDContply 
with that Act in telatKa toibeagieetncfil. 

CQ Repons end other initemetioD mpplicd to the Conmnssioo 
pursuant to regubtioas under dris sectioa shalL &g the purpoaes of 
sectiOD 39 of the A/oter and Mmerois Ac/; be deemed to be sopplied 
under that Act 

RSA 1910 cP-$ •lt;19C3 c40x$;19«6 c2» sZa9U cl9 at; 

t»9zc28iS;t9$dcl«s3 


n«gLMiwL: 19 Tiic Lieutenant Govemer in Cooncil may make ees»^oti3 

providing for any raadlkcr ia connection wiA or incidental to the 
admznutrptiaa of this Part. 

RSA I$W>cP-Sai» 


Parts 3, 4 and 5 Repealed 19 fi£ e 29 s 2 . 


» 



172 


Edmund P. Segner, III 
Executive Vice President & Chief of Staff 
Enron Corp. 


I am Edmund P. Segner, III, executive vice president and chief of staff of Enron 
Corp., a diversified energy company headquartered in Houston, Texas, with assets of $19 
billion and operations in 19 countries. As a major participant in the upstream, midstream 
and downstream domestic energy markets, Enron has a direct interest in the proposed 
royalty-in-kind program for federal oil and gas production as both a marketer of oil and 
gas and as a producer. Enron Capital & Trade Resources (ECT), a wholly owned 
subsidiary of Enron Corp., is one of the largest purchasers and marketers of natural gas 
and the largest wholesale marketer of electricity in the country. ECT actively purchases 
gas produced from federal lands and offers marketing and risk-management services to 
public and private entities. 

I am also a director of Enron Oil & Gas Company (EOG), a majority-owned 
affiliate of Enron, that explores for oil and gas in the United States and abroad. Last year, 
EOG’s production on an energy equivalent basis was 93% natural gas and 7% crude oil, 
reflecting Enron’s overall focus on natural gas. During the first half of 1997, EOG 
produced for its own account approximately 5000 barrels per day of crude oil and 
condensate and 275 Million cubic feet per day of gas from federal lands, making it a 
significant independent producer of oil and gas on the public domain. A wholly owned 
subsidiary of EOG, Enron Oil Canada, Ltd., is active in the exploration and production 
business in Canada and has participated in one of that country's province’s royalty-in- 
kind program on the oil side. 

Through its gas pipeline group, Enron is a leader in natural gas transmission. It is 
comprised of four interstate natural gas pipelines. Northern Natural Gas, Transwestem 
Pipeline, Florida Gas Transmission and Northern Border Pipeline. In addition, this group 
also operates two intrastate pipelines in Texas and Louisiana. The combination of these 
systems equals more than 32,000 miles of mainline transmission pipeline. 

Also affiliated with Enron Corp. is EOTT Energy Partners, L.P. (EOTT). EOTT, 
through its operating limited partnerships, is engaged in the refined products, natural gas 
liquids, and crude oil marketing and transportation businesses, both in the United States 
and in Canada. Like ECT, EOTT purchases oil produced from the public domain. Enron 
Corp., Northern Border, EOG, and EOTT are each public companies whose shares, or in 
the cases of EOTT and Northern Border, limited partnership units, are traded on the New 
York Stock Exchange. 

Because of natural gas’s importance as an environmentally sound fuel and 
because significant quantities of this country’s natural gas reserves are located on federal 
lands both onshore and offshore, Enron believes that the method used in determining 
federal royalties is critical to the efficient development of our energy resources. One fifth 
of our nation’s oil reserves and one third of our gas reserves are located on federal lands. 
Natural gas is an abundant, versatile, and reliable fuel with domestic production 


2 



173 


accounting for over 85% of national consumption. Natural gas is the fastest growing 
input of the electricity generation sector. Perhaps best of all, when burned in state-of-the- 
art combined-cycle units to generate electricity, natural gas reduces pollution emissions 
between 50% and 100% in the eight major categories compared to advanced coal-fired 
technologies.' As the Department of Energy summarized last year in its International 
Energy Outlook^ , “natural gas is the cleanest of the fossil fuels, and reserves are 
abundant. Environmental considerations and technological advances in gas-fired 
electricity generation are making it the fastest-growing fossil fuel worldwide. ” For these 
reasons, federal royalty policies should be considered in a broad, dynamic context. 

Gas Industry Background 

Recent changes in the natural gas industry, including the deregulation of wellhead 
prices and the demise of pipelines as the primary purchasers of natural gas, directly affect 
the current debate over royalty valuation. For decades the interstate natural gas industry 
was tightly regulated. Wellhead prices for natural gas were subject to federally mandated 
price ceilings. Most gas was sold to interstate pipeline companies that transported the gas 
to end users such as local distribution companies. Today, federally initiated market 
reforms have resulted in a robust wellhead market. Regulated wellhead prices for gas 
dedicated in interstate commerce were entirely repealed in 1993. Pipelines are primarily 
transporters, not purchasers of natural gas. Merchant sales by interstate transmission 
companies were replaced by marketing companies and open-access transmission between 
1985 and 1993. And around the country, states are beginning to implement open-access 
distribution programs to allow end users to procure natural gas from their preferred 
supplier and turn to their local distribution company for transportation services only. 

These changes in the natural gas market have resulted in seemingly intractable 
disputes between royalty recipients and producers of gas, both in the public and private 
sectors. I will briefly discuss some of the issues that have arisen between federal lessees 
and the federal government momentarily. It is our belief, however, that most, if not all, 
of these problems can be substantially eliminated by introducing a program in which the 
federal government takes and markets for its own account its share of oil and gas 
production from the public lands. At the same time, we believe that a properly designed 
program can provide the government with the assurance that it is receiving the full 
market value for its share of production while simplifying and streamlining its operations. 
In short, we believe that a properly designed royalty-in-kind program can result in a 
“win-win” situation for both the government and the private sector. 


' Gas-fired combined cycle plants offer the following emission reductions: sulfur dioxide, ash. and sludge (-100%), 
particulates (-95%), nitrogen oxides (-81%), and carbon dioxide (-58%). Study by ICF-Kaiser for Enron Corp., June 
1996. 

^ Energy Information Administration. International Energy Outlook. May 1996, p. 35. 


3 



174 


The Elements of a Suceessful Royalty-in-Kind Program 

We believe that the essential principles necessary for the implementation of a 
successful royalty-in-kind program are simplicity, predictability, and fairness. Under the 
current system, royalties are based on the value of production. Value is to be determined 
on the basis of the producer’s receipts when he or she sells the production under an 
arm’s-length contract. The federal share of production is sold along with that of the 
producer. Since the royalty share is typically only one-eighth (for onshore production) or 
one-sixth (for offshore), the government’s interest is protected since it is in the economic 
self interest of the producer to obtain the best price possible for the lion’s share of the 
production. 

When a producer is affiliated with a company that is active in the midstream or 
downstream markets, matters become more complex. Value is still to be based on the 
prices established under the arm’s length contracts, but the producer’s receipts are no 
longer used to determine the royalty obligation. They are to be compared with the prices 
received by other producers in the field or area where production occurs to make sure that 
the non-arm’s length proceeds are comparable. The problem from a producer’s 
standpoint is that, for competitive and anti-trust reasons, he or she carmot simply call 
other producers in the area and make inquiries concerning their prices. Further, the value 
for royalty purposes can never be less than the producer’s proceeds, but it can be more. 
The proceeds which would have been deemed the value if sold to a non-affiliate are left 
open to question. Such a producer is left in uncertainty as to whether or not the value 
used for reporting and paying the government for its share of production was correct. 
And value, like beauty, is in the eye of the beholder, especially years down the line when 
the producer’s payments are subject to audit. 

Benefits of a Royalty-in-Kind Program 

The above is a vast oversimplification of the current system, but in its essentials, 
it is correct. There have been in recent years many efforts to deal with these issues. A 
Negotiated Rulemaking was instigated by the Secretary of the Interior in an effort to 
come up with new rules to value gas. That committee’s work resulted in the publication 
of a complex proposed rule that, due to a number of factors, was ultimately withdrawn. 
Other proposals and issues currently confront die government and the industry. A well 
designed royalty-in-kind program would cut through these problems. Simplicity would 
be achieved for both the government and the producer. The government could, like the 
Province of Alberta, utilize the expertise of private sector experts in marketing its 
production for a fee rather than attempting to develop its own internal expertise in this 
complex area. Producers would enjoy both a vastly simplified system of complying with 
their obligations to the government and the knowledge that they will not be second 
guessed years later concerning the values upon which they reported production. Fairness 
would also be achieved on many fronts. Small producers and large producers would be 
treated similarly. Companies that are active in multiple phases of the industry would not 


4 



175 


be placed at a competitive disadvantage as a result of engaging in more than one line of 
lawful business. 

A. Advantages to the Government 

A well designed royalty-in-kind program offers many advantages to the federal 
government over the current program of receiving royalties based on value. Such a 
program would assure the govenunent that it receives the full market value for its share 
of production. The most sophisticated marketing companies offer the ability to access 
markets nationally, and to provide both efficiencies in operation and economies of scale. 
Such companies also offer access to sophisticated information systems that will allow the 
government to receive timely and accurate information. 

By utilizing the expertise of sophisticated marketers, the federal government 
should realize increased revenues through the aggregation of its substantial volumes, as 
well as significant administrative savings resulting from greatly simplified auditing 
requirements, an absence of disputes with producers concerning the value of production, 
and a reduction in administrative appeals and litigation resulting in a streamlined, more 
efficient agency. 

B. Advantages to Producers 

As an aside, f d like to note that Enron Oil & Gas Company is member of both the 
Domestic Petroleum Council and the Independent Petroleum Association of America. As 
members of these organizations, we have participated in the formulation of their 
recommendations and fully endorse their comments to this subcommittee. 

1 would now like to describe the benefits that we have experienced with a royalty- 
in-kind program in Canada. As I previously noted, EOG, through its wholly owned 
subsidiary Enron Oil Canada, Ltd., produces oil in the Province of Alberta, Canada that is 
subject to Alberta’s royalty-in-kind program. Our experience under that program has 
been extremely positive. Valuation disputes under the program are virtually nonexistent. 
Further, the program is simple to administer from both a logistical and an accounting 
standpoint. Its chief attraction is its practicality. We are able to comply with our royalty 
obligations by implementing relatively simple computer programs and relying upon a 
single accountant who spends less than four hours a month in filing required reports. In 
addition, the Province bears its proportionate share of downstream costs like any other 
interest owner, thus providing equitable treatment to its lessees. 

We also note that since June, 1996 Alberta has utilized the expertise of three 
marketing companies in disposing of its share of oil production. Prior to that time, 
Alberta’s oil production was marketed by the Alberta Petroleum Marketing Commission, 
a government agency formed in 1974 to gather and market the province’s crude oil and 
synthetic crude received in-kind as royalty from Crown leases. 


5 



176 


In February 1 994, the Alberta government announced that it was getting out of the 
oil marketing business as a part of a major restructuring and downsizing of the Ministry 
of Energy. Most significantly, between February, 1994 and April, 1995 a joint 
government-industry task force exhaustively examined the feasibility of moving to a 
value-based cash royalty system such as is presently used in the U.S. In April, 1995, the 
Minister of Energy advised that a cash based royalty system could not be implemented 
because it would result in a financial loss to the province and create an administrative 
burden for both industry and government. 

We believe that our experience in Alberta shows exactly the benefits to both the 
industry and to the government that a well designed royalty-in-kind system can have. We 
accordingly urge that this subcommittee give serious consideration to the experience of 
our Northern neighbor in judging the efficacy of royalty-in-kind programs. 

I would also like to briefly discuss our experience under the Interior Department’s 
pilot royalty-in-kind program conducted in the Gulf of Mexico during 1995. While we 
did note some logistical and reporting problems, our overall view of the program was 
positive. I think that those who participated in the program, both in the private sector and 
in the government, recognize that there were minor problems with the pilot program. 
These problems do not, however, cause us to question the overall desirability of a 
successful royalty-in-kind program. Rather, they serve to prove the old saying “the devil 
is in the details.” These details can best be addressed by utilizing the experience of those 
who participate in the industry, both producers and marketers. Only in this way can a 
system that meets the needs of the federal government and the industry be met. We 
would be pleased to assist in the development of such a system in any manner possible. 

In addition, we recently began to participate in the royalty-in-kind program 
covering lands owned by the State of Texas. A property we acquired last year from 
Amoco was already in the program when we acquired it. The State of Texas, through its 
General Land Office, takes its share of gas at the wellhead. It has its own transportation 
arrangement. Basically, the State is treated like any other owner in the property. The 
program works so well that no one at Enron, other than the personnel who actually 
administer the property, was even aware that we were a part of the program until we 
looked into it as a result of an inquiry by this committee’s staff. The fact that the program 
operates so unobtrusively speaks volumes. 

Current Concerns 

As I previously noted, the recent changes in the natural gas markets have led to a 
number of controversies between industry and the government. Other controversies have 
arisen concerning whether or not posted prices for oil are indicative of tme market values. 
Central to the government’s position in connection with these controversies is its 
abandonment of the view that royalties are to be determined at or near the lease as has 
been the historical practice for more than seventy years and thus a matter upon which 
federal lessees have relied. Rather, it is apparently the current view of the Department of 


6 



177 


the Interior that royalty values are to be determined far dovmstream of the lease, after the 
value of the commodity (whether oil or gas) has been enhanced by a variety of services 
performed in the midstream and downstream markets and with respect to which 
participants in those markets have made significant capital expenditures and undertaken a 
variety of risks not associated with the risks that are undertaken by oil and gas lessees. As 
a salient example I point to the Minerals Management Service’s recently proposed rule 
that would establish crude oil values not on the basis of prices received under arm’s- 
length contraets for similar production in the field where produced, but rather on values 
determined under financial contracts traded on the New York Mercantile Exchange, 
adjusted for differentials in value, quality and distance from Cushing, Oklahoma. 
NYMEX contracts are essentially financial hedging instruments and seldom are contracts 
for the physical delivery of oil. However, the problems encountered in making the many 
necessary adjustments to a NYMEX price to even roughly approximate the values 
established in the myriad individual wellhead markets throughout the United States are 
insurmountable and the resulting burden on lessees unconscionable. 

In a recent Federal Register notice, MMS indicated that it intends to radically alter 
its present definition of an arm’s length sale, the linchpin of the current MMS valuation 
rules. This latter proposal is of the utmost eoneem. MMS would redefine arm’s length 
sales to mean the first sale outside a group of affiliated companies. Such a rule would 
require a wholesale revision in the manner in whieh much of the natural gas business in 
the United States is today condueted. Gas has beeome, like grain, porkbellies or orange 
juice, a fungible commodity. Gas is purchased, aggregated and disposed of through ever 
more complex transactions. The risks undertaken by those companies, including Enron, 
which have participated in this revolution in the midstream and downstream gas markets 
are far removed from the risks historically required of oil and gas producers. 

Companies such as Enron (and there are many) which participate in both the 
production phase as well as the midstream and downstream markets would be placed at a 
severe competitive disadvantage if such a rule were ever to become law. Competing 
producers could rely on the price they received in determining their royalty obligation 
while producers with downstream affiliates would be subject to significantly increased 
record keeping and compliance costs as well as being subjected to second guessing 
concerning its reported values years later. Such a rule would unfairly penalize companies 
that engage in more than one level of production and distribution. 

Further, any such rule is fundamentally at odds with the manner in which natural 
gas is marketed today. Natural gas producers no longer dedicate the production from 
specific properties to specific sales contracts. Most production today is sold under 
contracts that specify no source of supply, but rather require that specified volumes are to 
be delivered to designated delivery points. Producers can and do supply gas to such 
delivery points from various sources of supply, including their own production or, in the 
event of a shortfall in production necessary to satisfy a firm delivery commitment, by 
purchases from other producers or marketers. Even when a producer’s own production is 
used, it may come from any number of properties upstream of the point of delivery thus 


7 



178 


rendering impossible the determination of downstream resale proceeds from any specific 
property. 

Similarly, midstream marketers do not supply their downstream customers with 
gas obtained under specific purchases from identifiable producers. Rather, production is 
aggregated at pooling points where it is bought and sold or transported to other points, all 
in the marketer’s efforts to maximize its profits by seeking the best market that is 
available. In short, such a rule would be tantamount to requiring a bank to calculate the 
interest it earns for loaning the money of a specific depositor. The total impracticability 
of any such a rule if applied to the banking industry is obvious. It is no less so in the 
natural gas business. 

These proposals, and there are others as well, reflect a view by the MMS that it 
should substitute its own regulatory oversight for market forces. It has been said that 
those who know no history are doomed to repeat it. I simply call to your attention the 
morass of litigation, regulatory uncertainty, and market distortions that have accompanied 
every attempt to substitute governmental judgment for competitive market forces in the 
oil and gas markets. The regulatory quagmire resulting from govemmentally mandated 
pricing distinctions between “old oil” and “new oil” in the 1970’s and the tremendous 
burdens on both government and the industry resulting from federal attempts to regulate 
wellhead prices for natural gas from the mid-1950’s through 1993 come immediately to 
mind. 

Conclusion 

It is for these reasons that a royalty-in-kind program is so important. Competitive 
bidding for the government's share of production would simply and fairly establish its 
value while providing the best means available to assure that the government receives full 
value for oil and gas production from federal lands. It offers the government the ability 
to realize the maximum value for its share of production while streamlining its 
operations. In short, we believe that such a program will provide certainty, simplicity, 
and fairness for the government and the industry. Our experiences in Alberta and Texas 
confirm this belief Accordingly, we urge that this subcommittee give serious and 
favorable consideration to the establishment of a royalty-in-kind program for the federal 
share of oil and gas production. 

I would like to thank the members of the subcommittee for this opportunity to 
testify before you today and offer our assistance in developing a successful royalty-in- 
kind program that will meet the needs of both the federal government and the oil and gas 
industry. 

1 would welcome any questions you may have. 


8 



179 


Edmund P. Segner, III 

Executive Vice President & Chief of Staff 

Enron Corp. 

1400 Smith Street 
Room EB-5025 
Houston, TX 77002 
(713) 853-5299 



180 


EDMUND P. SEGNER, III 
Executive Vice President & Chief of Staff 
Enron Corp. 


Edmund P. Segner, III is executive vice president and chief of staff of Enron 
Corp. Prior to assuming his current position, he was senior vice president of investor, 
public and government relations at Enron. He joined the company in February, 1988 as 
vice president of public and investor relations. He serves as a director of Enron Oil & 
Gas Company and Enron Global Power & Pipelines, L.L.C., listed on the New York 
Stock Exchange as EOG and EPP, respectively. 

Before joining Enron, Ed was assistant vice president for equity research at 
Drexel Burnham Lambert, Inc. Previously, he worked for eight years at United Energy 
Resources, Inc., and began his career in 1976 as a member of the audit staff of Touche 
Ross & Company. 

Ed graduated cum laude from Rice University with a B.S. degree in civil 
engineering and received a M.A. degree in economics from the University of Houston. 
He is also a Certified Public Accountant. 

Ed is a member of the Houston Society of Financial Analysts. He is Treasurer of 
the Texas Nature Conservancy and on the advisory board of the Zoological Society of 
Houston. Ed is a member of the Rice University faculty. He also serves on the Rice 
University Fund Council and the advisory board of the Rice University Center for 
Education. Ed is past Chairman of the Board of Community Partners. 


January, 1997 



181 


TESTIMONY OF 

Cynthia L. Quarterman, Director 

Minerals Management Service 
U.S. Department of the Interior 

Before the 

Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 
Resources Committee 

House of Representatives 

July 31, 1997 


Madam Chairman and Members of the Subcommittee, I appreciate the opportunity to 
appear today to present testimony on the Minerals Management Service’s (MMS) 
ongoing examination of the feasibility of taking oil and gas royalties “in kind.” We are 
undertaking this study as part of our continuing efforts to improve services to the public 
at reduced cost. We are also responding to a congressional directive to consider 
additional royalty in kind scenarios. Before discussing details of our current study, 1 
would like to provide you with some background information. 

Background 

The Department of the Interior has historically based oil and gas royalty valuation on fair 
market value, typically defined as the gross proceeds realized by its lessees under arm's- 
length sales. For many years, this served as an equitable valuation standard and continues 
to work well today in cases of wellhead or producing area arm’s-length sales. However, 
the energy industry has changed dramatically over the past 10 years. 

With respect to crude oil, the world events of the 1970’s produced new price volatilities 
and an active spot market. Spot trading at producing area market centers by middlemen, 
such as brokers and re-sellers, has increased compared to the traditional long-term 
contracts between producers and refiners. Further, many sellers now use the futures 
market for risk management and market information. Product exchanges are now a 
common method of disposing of production. 



182 


With respect to natural gas, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission’s (FERC) 
deregulation of the natural gas transportation industry, the widespread emergence of 
producer affiliates and joint venture marketers, and the evolving deregulation of retail 
natural gas and electric markets have complicated royalty valuation. 

The once-dominant wellhead sale has been replaced by more frequent “downstream” 
sales by affiliated energy marketers, especially for natural gas. A series of downstream 
transportation, processing, marketing, and risk management activities (e.g. price 
hedging) — even inter-commodity exchanges (e.g., from gas to electricity) — frequently 
occur before a first sale is made, thereby complicating the tracing and calculation of a 
lessee’s gross proceeds. In some instances, for example, a gas producer’s first sale may 
not occur until the burner tip in a residential consumer’s home. 

The changing nature of the current energy market has, unfortunately, fostered disputes 
betw een MMS and producers over the appropriate royalty valuation for oil and gas. For 
example, we have had disputes over how much of the dow nstream revenues should be 
included in gross proceeds, what deductions are appropriately made from gross proceeds 
for downstream services, and to what extent is the lessee’s duty to market for the lessor at 
locations remote from the lease. Administrative appeals and litigation have proliferated 
as MMS and the energy industry have slrtigglcd to resolve these issues. 

Changes in the energy market have presented great challenges for MMS to provide 
simpler and more certain royalty valuation regulations and guidance. MMS has attempted 
to meet the ehallenge through a series of regulatory and policy actions, using negotiated 
and revised valuation rulemakings. Regulatory and policy solutions developed to date 
have often been controversial. Flowever, we believe that progress towards solutions to 
royalty valuation disputes is tangible and that we are on the right path to successfully 
addressing these issues. 

Part of this “right path” may include implementation of a royalty in kind (RIK) program 
or programs. The complexity and divisiveness surrounding existing royally valuation 
have prompted us and many in the oil and gas industry and Congress to consider the 
potential benefits of RIK programs. In the best case RIK scenario, valuation disputes 
could be eliminated or at least reduced. Auditing lessees’ production could consist of 
straightforward volume reconciliations completed soon after the production month. 
Administrative savings could accrue to both the Federal government and industry through 
decreased royalty reporting and verification. The potential may exist to enhance Federal 


2 



183 


revenues through significant aggregation and sophisticated marketing. The extent of such 
benefits, however require more examination and analysis. While the RIK program offers 
possibilities for the marketing of Federal production, it also places the government into a 
new role similar to that of a working interest owner sharing in benefits and risks. 

MMS recognizes the potential for these benefits and, accordingly, we are seriously 
examining the feasibility of adopting RIK programs. Before discussing the early results 
of our examination, I would like to speak briefly of MMS’ 1995 Royalty Gas Marketing 
Pilot during which MMS took a percentage of its offshore gas production in kind. 

1995 Royalty Gas Marketing Pilot 

During calender year 1995, MMS took and sold by competitive bid at the lease 
approximately 45 .6 billion cubic feet of gas from 14 lessees covering 79 leases in the 
Gulf of Mexico, accounting for approximately 6 percent of the U.S. royalty share of Gulf 
of Mexico natural gas production. The pilot was an operational success, proving that RIK 
sales are feasible, however, royalties were some 9 cents per MMBtu less than would have 
been realized under the in value system. Extrapolated to all Gulf of Mexico Federal 
leases, this loss would have been approximately $82 million annually. MMS learned a 
substantial amount about RIK concepts from the pilot and from subsequent interaction 
w ith gas producers and marketers, including: 

1 ) The voluntary nature of the program put MMS at a disadvantage that likely 
contributed to revenue losses, the most obvious disadvantage being that 
volunteered leases were scattered throughout the Gulf, reducing 
opportunities to aggregate volumes and enhance values. 

2) Sales at the lease resulted in MMS not realizing value enhancements from 
downstream marketing services, natural gas liquids uplifts, and aggregation. 

3) Administrative relief to MMS and industry did not occur because only a 
few leases were included and audits of the producers’ shares were still 
conducted. 

1997 RIK Feasibility Study 

The primary objective of our current study is to determine if implementation of an RIK 
program or programs for Federal oil and gas is in the best interests of the United States, 
and, if so, under what circumstances. We use the phrase “best interests of the United 
States’’ to refer to a program that would: 


3 



184 


1) Offer potential revenue neutrality or enhancements to the U.S. Treasury; 
and 

2) Provide extensive administrative relief for MMS and industry. 

The study considers both small-scale pilots and across-the-board, “steady-state” programs 
involving substantial volumes of Federal production. In the study, we are assuming that 
the following conditions would have to prevail for the U.S. to successfully implement an 
RIK program or programs, namely: 

1) Federal lease rights to take in kind would be exercised at our option. 

2) Regulations would be promulgated. 

3) Market value benchmarks would measure program success. 

4) MMS would not audit the lessee’s production share to measure value. 

During the study, w e have conducted several types of research, including: 

1) interviewing governmental entities to learn from their RIK experiences; 2) convening 
public workshops to obtain public input on a spectrum of potential RIK options under 
consideration; and 3) surveying energy marketers to learn more about how energy 
commodities are marketed and sold downstream of the lease. 

Other RIK Experiences. The Texas General Land Office (GLO) takes oil and gas in 
kind from State leases. The GLO’s oil is sold by competitive bid at the royalty 
measurement point. GLO staff stated that RIK revenues are some 5% more than in value 
revenues. The GLO is currently in dispute, just as the MMS is, with many producers over 
the value the GLO receives in royalties. Generally, the in value royalty payments were 
based on postings, GLO has recently reached settlement with at least one integrated 
producer to pay royalties on a NYMEX adjusted price, rather than postings. Our 
understanding is that the advantage of the oil RIK competitive bid price compared to the 
negotiated royalty valuation has disappeared. 

The GLO’s gas RIK program provides gas to State facilities as an alternative to services 
provided by local utilities. Excess gas is sold on the spot market. The program has two 
primary goals: 1) to enhance the School Fund, and 2) to streamline the GLO royalty 
program. The GLO sells approximately I Bcf per month from 100 state leases in the 
Gulf The GLO reported that the program has resulted in about $1 million, annually, in 


4 



185 


additional revenues and about $10 million, annually, in savings from decreased gas prices 
for State facilities by cutting out the local utilities. Our understanding from GLO, is that 
the local distribution companies are now becoming more competitive to try to gain the 
State facilities back as customers. The schools are receiving more competitive prices, 
however, the State is reducing its margin to remain a competitive supplier. Later, 1 will 
discuss our findings on gas from the OCS. 

During the past 3 months, we have spent some time learning about the experiences of 
other governments in RIK, especially the Province of Alberta’s RIK oil program. Under 
this program, the entire Province’s Crown (royalty) share is delivered at the oil tank 
battery. The Province’s marketing agents combine Crown production with their own 
equity production, and move the crude oil significant distances to refineries where sales 
occur. The agents are paid a per barrel marketing fee. The Alberta crude oil RIK 
program is reported to be sliglitly revenue positive compared to refinery postings. We 
understand that the Alberta benchmark prices are comparable to U.S. market center 
prices, for example, the Empire and St. James market centers. Alberta has told MMS that 
their small revenue enhancement primarily results from movement of the Crown’s 
production away from remote areas with little refining capacity and demand to areas of 
many refineries with greater demand for crude volumes. 

The Alberta RIK program provides an interesting model for us to consider as we move 
forward in assessing RIK programs. I will speak further to this model later today. 

The State of Wyoming has formally expressed interest about creating a pilot RIK 
program. We have met with them several times to explore that possibility. We remain 
open to work with the State and industry in formulating a pilot program in Wyoming. 

Our offer to the State that we develop a joint implementation team remains open. 

Public Comment. MMS conducted six public workshops to obtain public comment on 
RIK feasibility. The primary public reaction to MMS’ RIK options was widespread 
support for MMS to take oil or gas production in kind. This sentiment was expressed by 
large and small producers, marketers, field service companies, pipeline companies, and 
State governments. Comments from marketers and some producers indicated that gas 
RIK has more potential for revenue enhancement than does oil RIK. Tlieir rationale is 
that the Federal government’s royalty strength is in its ability to aggregate large volumes 
of production. That characteristic is not as important in the oil market because it consists 
of refiners that typically look for incremental barrels to fill excess capacity rather than for 


5 



186 


large volumes to fuel ongoing industries as is the case in the gas market. Further, some 
commenters indicated that a large-scale RJK program would work better for offshore 
leases in the Gulf of Mexico because of the concentration of volumes in a relatively small 
area with mature pipeline/market infrastructures. 

Public comment supported delivery of U.S. royalty production at the lease, followed by 
either lease sales or downstream sales by a contracted marketing agent as the best options. 
Both producers and marketers urged MMS to adopt bold programs (rather than “pilot 
projects”) involving substantial volumes and long time periods. Producers cited 
significant administrative savings and marketers asserted revenue enhancements as the 
basis for their opinions. 

Market Survey. MMS conducted a survey of natural gas marketing companies to 
understand this aspect of the business and to determine the implications and potentials for 
marketing of U.S. royalty gas production. The energy marketers appear to possess three 
attributes that they could provide to MMS that have positive implications for marketing of 
U.S. royalty gas: 

1) Knowledge and experience gained in swapping/trading multiple 
commodities; 

2) Efficiencies from moving large volumes; and 

3) The fiill spectrum of marketing services (e.g. storage, transportation service 
portfolios, commodity swapping/arbitrage, risk management, trading on 
location differentials, and knowledge of and relationships with pipelines, 
gathering systems, processors, and customers). 

Each of these attributes could potentially increase the revenues the government would 
receive from gas production. The gas marketers each contend that MMS can enhance 
offshore gas revenues by strategic alliances with energy marketers. The primary reason 
offered by marketers is that MMS could provide market leverage for an agent by virtue of 
the large magnitude of supply from a single source. The same reasoning apparently 
underlies the recent private joint ventures between major producers and gas marketers. 

Preliminary Findings. Our examination and deliberations on potential future RIK 
programs are still ongoing, and, as such, the findings 1 discuss here today are still quite 
preliminary. However, we offer some of our tentative findings to generate discussion and 


6 



187 


to let you know the status of our analysis at this point in time. An overall finding of the 
study will likely be that, under favorable eircumstances, RIK programs eould be 
workable, revenue neutral or positive, and administratively more effieient for MMS and 
industry. Favorable cireumstances inelude: 

1) Downstream Marketing and Sales; An MMS RIK program that ean 
strategically participate in downstream services and value enhancements 
could improve Federal royalty revenue. 

2) Aggregation; The ability to aggregate and supply substantial volumes to 
end-user markets could provide MMS and its agent with market leverage 
primarily through assurance of supply. 

3) Administrative Relief: Decreased reporting to MMS, and the reduction of 
audits of the producers’ shares would benefit both the U.S. and the royalty 
payors. 

However, RIK programs would have reduced chances for success if implemented under 
unfavorable conditions, including: 

1) Continuation of audits of the producers’ shares; 

2) Statutory language reversing our current RIK authorities by: 

a) requiring MMS to take royalty in kind only at the lessees’ discretion; 

b) limiting our ability to have RIK volumes transported by the lessee at 
cost or requiring us to pay above market transportation rates on non- 
jurisdictional gathering lines to move royalty production; or 

c) requiring MMS to accept RIK volumes at less than marketable 
condition. 

3) Taking in kind Federal production scattered throughout many basins in a 
relatively large geographic area, which would decrease the potential for 
aggregation of volumes and increase the MMS learning curve for 
implementing RIK programs. 


7 



188 


With respect to crude oil, we caution against assuming that the Alberta program is 
directly relevant to U.S, crude oil RIK potential. First, the Alberta revenue information 
covers only one 6-month period and is only marginally positive. Second, the stated 
reason for the small revenue enhancement in Alberta— movement of crude oil substantial 
distances to areas of greater refining demand— would likely not occur in the Gulf of 
Mexico. This is because the U.S. Government should already be receiving royalties under 
the current in value scheme based on relatively high demand in the Gulf which results 
from a high concentration of refineries. Further movement downstream under an RIK 
system would likely not result in higher prices. 

For onshore, implementation of a new crude oil RIK system would be large and complex 
because of the scattered nature of the production. This would make such an RIK program 
a difficult undertaking that should be attempted only if revenue and administrative 
impacts for all parties are decidedly positive. 

MMS believes that our proposed crude oil valuation rule promises to provide for certainty 
in oil valuation partly by utilizing transparent market indicators tied to producing area 
market centers. Under an oil RIK program, it is likely that the Government would realize 
proceeds similar to those quoted at the market centers, which is the basis for our proposed 
valuation rule. Considering that lessees cannot deduct marketing costs under the Federal 
in value system, we believe that implementation of an oil RIK program would actually 
lose revenue because MMS would need to pay these costs under an RIK program without 
the potential for volume aggregation or downstream value enhancements of a gas RIK. 

In summary, we are not convinced that crude oil RIK is in the best interests of the United 
States. Ftowever, we have not yet quantified the relationship between direct revenue 
implications and potential administrative savings for oil RIK. We are, therefore, willing 
to work together with industry. States and the Congress to develop and conduct a pilot 
program that might help provide these answers. 

With respect to natural gas, we believe that a gas RIK that uses one or more marketers has 
the potential to enhance revenues because: 

1) MMS could receive more benefits from downstream sales of gas and 
associated liquids than currently received at the lease; 

2) the potential to aggregate production would increase under RIK if existing 
lessees of offshore royalty gas are replaced by one or a few marketers; 


g 



189 


J) downstream value additions may be more quickly captured by RIK 

programs than under in value royalties that are currently in litigation; and 

4) gas marketers generally have a more diverse portfolio of transportation 

options than many producers, and can thus use the most appropriate service 
to exploit lucrative yet often short-lived marketing opportunities. 

In sum, we are encouraged by the prospects for gas RIK from both revenue and 
administrative perspectives. We intend to proceed cautiously to develop specific 
program models consistent with the favorable conditions I previously mentioned, and to 
assess their feasibility before we make any firm decisions on whether or how to 
implement a new RIK pilot. 

Next Steps 

I reiterate that the findings I have outlined here today are preliminary, and that, upon 
further detailed economic and program analysis, different conclusions may be reached. 

We will not make any decisions before such analysis is completed. We further believe 
that it is not wise to make legislative decisions before comprehensive analyses are 
conducted. Any statutory or regulatory assistance that may be necessary will depend on 
the specific nature of any RIK program that is developed. At this point, it is premature to 
guess what type of legislative assistance, ifany, may be needed. 

Specifically, our course of action will be the following. We will first complete our 
conceptual assessment of potential future RIK programs. We then intend to work 
together with Congress, interested States and the industry to identify specific areas of 
interest in RIK. If indications remain positive that certain RIK scenarios should be 
pursued, we will develop detailed program specifications that can then be assessed for 
their likely fiscal and administrative impacts. Decisions will follow. 

In closing, let me state that the Department of the Interior is quite open to alternative and 
innovative ways to manage the revenues generated from the Nation’s public resources. 

We understand that the energy markets have changed dramatically from those in existence 
when our valuation regulations were published in 1988, and that these still evolving 
changes require us to be agile and flexible in our approach so that both government and 
industry have workable systems to manage royalty revenues. It is precisely that need for 
agility and flexibility that leads us to believe that a legislatively constructed program 
might lock in elements of an RIK program that would later turn out to be counter to the 


9 



190 


operations of the marketplace. We continue to work on two fronts to meet this challenge, 
namely to develop clear and certain valuation regulations for in value royalties, and to 
explore and implement RIK programs where they are workable and beneficial to all 
parties. 

Madam Chair, this concludes my prepared remarks. 1 would be pleased to answer any 
questions you or the Members of the Subcommittee may have. 


10 



191 


GULF CANADA 
AND 

ALBERTA’S CRUDE OIL ROYALTY SYSTEM 


REMARKS TO THE U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
COMMITTEE OF RESOURCES 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND MINERAL 
RESOURCES 

OVERSIGHT HEARING ON ROYALTY-IN-KIND 


William G, Henderson 

Gulf Canada Resources Limited 

September 18, 1997 


1082-1 (6-8-1) 



192 


GULF CANADA AND 

ALBERTA’S CRUDE OIL ROYALTY SYSTEM 


OUTLINE 

Profile, History & Process Description 

Alberta Production and Royalty Profile 3 

Crude Logistics and Pricing 3 

Recent History of Royalty Collection 4 

Government Royalty Review - 1995/96 4 

Description of Current Royalty-in-Kind Process 6 

Gulf Canada’s Experience To-date 

Background of Gulf 7 

Agency Agreement Perspectives 8 



Gulf Canada Resources Limited 
September 18, 1997 



193 


BACKGROUND, HISTORY S PROCESS DESCRIPTION 
Alberta Production and Royalty Profile 

Crude oil production in Alberta currently totals 1.2 million barrels per day of 
which approximately 81% or about 970,000 bpd is produced from Provincial 
government or “Crown” leases. The latter represents land where the Province 
has retained the mineral rights. The remainder is produced from freehold lands, 
which primarily consist of railway right-of-ways. Aboriginal reserves and original 
. settlers' leases. 

Conventional production from Crown leases is about 740,000 bpd. It is upon this 
volume that royalties in kind are based. For the government year-ended March 
1996, net Crown royalties totalled 130,000 bpd and averaged 18.1% of 
conventional Crown lease production. Provincial royalty percentages vary with 
differing crude oil qualities and are market price sensitive. As a result, royalty 
volumes can vary significantly from month to month. 

Not all royalties are delivered in kind as certain production from enhanced oil 
recovery schemes and oil sands is collected in cash. Provincial royalties are not 
charged on freehold production as instead the freehold owners are charged a 
mineral tax. This is collected in cash once per year. 

Crown royalties are produced from about 6,000 oil batteries connecting to an 
estimated 25,000 to 30,000 wells. There are some 500 companies operating in 
the Province; however the majority of these are small producers with volumes 
under 1 ,000 barrels per day. Over one-half of total production rests with thirteen 
companies of which seven are integrated with refinery operations. 

Crude Logistics and Pricing 

Alberta has two primary delivery hubs - Edmonton and Hardisty. Light feeder 
streams deliver into Edmonton for shipment on Interprovincial Pipe Line (IPL), 
Transmountain Pipeline and Express. Medium and heavy streams deliver to 
Hardisty for further shipment on IPL and Express. Most Canadian crudes are 
shipped on IPL for sale in the Chicago and Ontario markets. However, 
substantial volumes are also sold into the Edmonton area, Pacific Northwest, 
U.S. Rocky Mountain Region and southern PADD II. 

For volumes sold in Canada, pricing is usually based on two markers: 

• Posted prices issued by Canadian refiners and a few trading 

companies reflecting the price for which they will buy crude at either 
Edmonton or Hardisty. These prices reflect a variety of different crude 
qualities. 


’082 ! (6-84! 


Gulf Canada Resources Limited 
September 18, 1997 



194 


4 


• A differential off Nymex tA/TI dependent on quality, location, and 
market conditions. 

For volumes sold in the U.S., prices are based on conventional pricing methods 
including postings, Nymex, Platt's, etc. 

Recent History of Royalty Collection 

Previous to 1974, the Alberta Government collected royalties owing on a cash 
basis with prices determined from actual company proceeds. Following the oil 
embargo and energy price shocks of the early 1970's, the Canadian federal 
government threatened to impose severe oil price controls on the entire 
Canadian oil industry. This move was completely opposed by the country's net 
producers including the Alberta government. So as to give the Province 
leverage in negotiations with the federal government, the Province created the 
Alberta Petroleum Marketing Commission (APMC) in 1974. At that time the 
legislation required all crude oil produced from Crown leases to be delivered to 
the APMC. 

In 1985, oil prices were completely deregulated and the APMC ceased to be the 
exclusive marketer for all Crown lease volumes. Instead, only Crown royalty 
volumes and the Province's equity share of volumes produced from the 
Syncrude oil sands plant were placed under the marketing control of the APMC. 

Government Royalty Review - 1994/95 

In 1 994, the government in power was mandated to review the role of all 
government departments, boards, and agencies with a view to reduce the 
influence of government as well as cut costs. The APMC was included in this 
review and it was recommended that the APMC's functions be assumed by 
private industry. An industry/government task force was struck to develop the 
most desirable and cost effective way to implement this recommendation. 
Evaluation criteria were developed among which included revenue neutrality as 
compared to the previous system, minimal administrative burden upon 
producers, fairness and transparency and lower or the same government 
administrative costs. 

Three potential options were developed and reviewed: 

1 . a self-determined price cash royalty system 

• royalty valuation would be based on actual prices received upon the sale 
of all producer's production with working interest owners in the well or 
battery being responsible for payment. 


Gulf Canada Resources Limited 
September 18. 1997 



195 


5 


• this option was favored by the majority of industry's largest producers 
including integrateds as it allowed them to keep control of their royalty 
volumes 

• it was rejected by the government due to the extensive audit component 
that would be required, the problem in valuation of non-arm's length sales 
and the intrusive administration and reporting required 

2. a reference price cash royalty system 

• royalty valuation would be based on marker prices netted back to the field 
location 

• although the second choice of the larger industry producers, the option 
was rejected by the government as it was determined not to be revenue 
neutral 

3, privatization of sales using existing multiple marketers or an existing single 
marketer 

• this option was originally rejected by the task force due to the general 
opposition by industry and the problem in developing appropriate bid 
criteria and performance benchmarks. Opposition was generally in the 
context of large volume control. 

• later, and as a result of proposals submitted by a number of producers, 
the government revisited this option with a view to privatizing on an 
agency basis 

In late 1995, the government formally requested proposals from industry 
incorporating various criteria including: 

• acting as agent for the government using a pooling approach whereby 
the Crown's volumes would be pooled with the agent’s volumes and 
both parties receiving the same price. 

• a term of 5 years or less 

• appropriate credit worthiness and marketing history of the agent 

• fee to be charged 

• performance criteria 

• risk management activities 

• intelligence gathering for the government 

After an extensive negotiation process. Gulf Canada was chosen as one of three 
agents to market the royalty volumes. As Gulfs production consisted 
predominantly of light, sweet crude oil, the volumes awarded also consisted of 
light sweet oil. 



1C6?-1 i6'8Jr 


Gulf Canada Resources Limited 
September 18. 1997 



196 


6 


In addition to marketing the Crown's share of royalty production, Gulf was also 
requested to manage three policy initiatives that were currently being handled by 
the APIVIC: 


• The Westcoast initiative-a process to help manage chronic apportionment 
levels on IPL whereby production in excess of available pipeline capacity was 
moved to lower value markets in the Pacific Northwest and offshore. The 
price differential between Edmonton values and the actual sales values was 
charged to the royalty program with all Crown producers sharing in the cost. 
Volumes transported and sold under this program ranged between 10,000 to 
120,000 bpd. This initiative ended in March 1997. 

• Purging of Line 9 volumes-in 1993, the APMC reactivated the Sarnia to 
Montreal portion of IPL in effort to provide an outlet for excess Canadian 
production and as a defensive posture against early reversal. Again the 
costs of this program were shared by industry through adjustments to the 
royalty formulas. In 1996, the linefill volumes were recovered and the line 
purged. 

• Managing the government's Express Pipeline take-or-pay commitment - in 
order to ensure the Express Pipeline system would be built, the Alberta 
government committed to a substantial and long term take-or-pay throughput 
volume. This commitment is ongoing with certain portions of the commitment 
lasting 15 years. Crown sales through this commitment are pooled with Gulf 
volume sales on its commitment. 

Description of Current Royalty-in-Kind Process 

The current in-kind process has many components but can be summarized as 

follows; 

• Lessee obligation - Under the current Provincial legislation, the ultimate 
obligation for royalty rests with the lessee with volumes to be delivered in- 
kind to the Crown's agent at the closest field delivery point which may include 
a pipeline, terminal, refinery or other pipeline connected facility. 

• Ownership - Because of the agency relationship, ownership of the oil rests 
with the Crown from production to ultimate point of sale by the agent. 

• Operator based - As the operator of the producing facility is responsible for 
delivering the partner's share of production to the nearest delivery point, it is 
also responsible for ensuring delivery of the royalty share to the Crown's 
agent The operator is also responsible for forecasting of the following month 
volumes to the appropriate parties including pipeline/terminal operators, 
buyers (Crown's agent in the case of royalty) and owners. This process 



Gulf Canada Resources Limited 
September 18. 1997 



197 


7 


occurs during the first two weeks of the month prior to the month of 
production/sale. 

• Field Inventories - Royalty volumes are deemed to be delivered first and as a 
result no royalty inventories are held at producing battery locations. 

• Delivery and sale - once the royalty volumes are delivered to the agent, the 
volumes are pooled with the agent's volumes for sale and delivery to market. 
In Gulfs case, three pools are used for revenue distribution: light sweet at 
Edmonton, light sour at Edmonton and light sour in northeast British 
Columbia. Note that these pools are location and quality based. Other sour 
and heavy revenue pools are used for those agents who have been awarded 
those qualities of royalty volumes. Because of the agency relationship the 
Crown owns a portion of the inventories carried on feeder and trunk pipelines. 
Trading occurs during the third week of the month prior to delivery ending 
with trunk pipeline notice of shipments completed around the 19'" of that 
month. As agent. Gulf is responsible for ensuring supply and sales contract 
fulfillment. 

• Sales Proceeds - Collection occurs on the 25‘" of the month following sale. 
The royalty share is fonwarded to the government at the same time. Share 
calculations are supply based. 

• Reconciliation to Production - In order to ensure the correct amount of oil 
was delivered to the Crown agents, delivery reports are forwarded to the 
Crown which are then compared to production volumes reported to our 
regulatory agency - the Alberta Energy and Utilities Board (AEUB). Over or 
under deliveries are transacted directly with the facility operator using the 
agent's netback prices. 

• Performance Measurement - Proceeds remitted to the government are 
compared to performance benchmarks to ensure compliance with the agency 
agreement. 


GULF CANADA'S EXPERIENCE TO-DATE 
Background of Gulf 

Gulf is a senior Canadian oil and gas producer with headquarters in Calgary, 
Alberta. Current oil and condensate volumes marketed include: 


95.000 bpd 

40.000 

80.000 
30.000 

245,000 bpd 


equity 
third party 

Crown royalty as agent 
synthetic oil as agent 


In addition. Gulf markets over 500 mmcf/day of natural gas and 15,000 bpd of 
other NGL's. 



1082-1 i6-84) 


Gulf Canada Resources Limited 
September 18, 1997 



198 


s 


Gulfs oil volumes consist primarily of light sweet and light sour crude oil; 
however our recent acquisition of Stampeder Energy has brought substantial 
medium and heavy volumes. 

Gulfs sales are throughout Canada and the U.S with its primary markets being 
Alberta, Ontario, PADD's II & IV, and the Pacific Northwest. At times Gulf has 
arranged for waterborne shipments into the Far East, California and the U.S. 
Gulf coast. 

Agency Agreement Perspectives 
Implementation 

Gulf undertook marketing the Crown volumes in June 1 996. From a sales 
perspective, the Crown volumes were easily incorporated into Gulfs sales 
portfolio since the product types were very similar to Gulfs and the buyers were 
mostly the same. Most of the APMC contracts were assigned directly over to 
Gulf resulting in little, if any, supply disruptions to existing buyers. 

The only major difficulty encountered was from an internal systems perspective 
in that systems’ upgrades were required to handle the Crown’s reporting 
requirements and the large number of producing batteries from which Crown 
production was obtained. 

As royalty production was delivered in-kind prior to the agents’ takeover, there 
were no implementation hurdles from a Gulf or industry production, marketing 
and accounting perspective other than having the various feeder and trunk 
pipelines accept and deliver crudes under a different company. 

Prior to privatization, the APMC employed ten staff members in its marketing 
department. Upon assuming the Crown volumes. Gulf offered employment to 
four employees including one person to manage the Westcoast policy initiative. 
The other persons were hired in the supply, accounting and development areas. 
We have since hired an additional person in the accounting area. Other 
incremental administration costs were minimal. 

Operations 

Once the implementation hurdles were dealt with, the day-to-day operational 
difficulties have been minimal. One of the few recurring problems involves 
supply forecasting by the facility operators. Significant shortages or overages 
can cause logistic problems once initial nominations have been made. Although 
the agent must deal with the outcomes, it has no legal leverage in forcing correct 



Gulf Canada Resources Limited 
September 18, 1997 



199 


9 


delivery. We are currently working with the government to design a solution, 
which may include legislative penalties for incorrect deliveries. 

From an administrative perspective we have noticed a slight increase in reporting 
primarily due to the netback and pooling calculations required. The complexities 
in managing the Express Pipeline commitment have also added to this increase. 
We are currently investigating ways to automate the various reporting 
requirements. 

Advantages to the Crown 

First and foremost, the move to agency agreements allowed the government to 
achieve their goal of privatizing while ensuring minimal disruption to industry. In 
addition, as Gulf has larger volumes to market, we can offer our customers 
greater flexibility and service thereby enhancing netbacks for both Gulf and the 
Crown share. This achieves another important goal of the government - revenue 
neutrality. Thirdly, the move to agents allows the government to retain in-kind 
royalties, which after exhaustive study, is the simplest and most cost-effective 
system to administer. Although many of industry's senior and integrated 
producers will argue in favor of a cash royalty system, this view is taken solely 
from a volume control perspective. An in-kind system avoids the requirement to 
deal with all interest owners of a producing facility. As well, the in-kind system 
avoids a number of pricing implications that can arise in a cash system including 
streaming or directing certain production to one market versus another and 
pricing of non-arm's length transactions. 

As with the APMC, the current agency relationships allow the government to 
maintain a window on the marketplace as first-hand market and sales 
intelligence is available. This is extremely valuable In evaluating development 
proposals such as new pipelines or oil play developments, preparation for 
regulatory hearings and ultimately formulating government policy. 

Another important advantage to the Crown of an in-kind system is that of 
undertaking policy initiatives. As the royalty volumes are substantial in amount, 
the Crown, through its agents, can achieve or foster industry generated solutions 
by being an active participant. Examples include initiatives to alleviate 
apportionment on major pipelines and promoting market development. Note that 
these types of programs can also provide benefits to industry as a whole. 

Advantages to Gulf 

In addition to providing another revenue stream through marketing fees, the 
additional volumes have allowed for increased customer service and flexibility as 
in the case of the government. We were able to implement the move at very little 
incremental cost thus keeping this new revenue stream in tact. 


1082-1 (6-84t 


Gulf Canada Resources Limited 
September 18, 1997 



200 


10 


other Perspectives 

As mentioned previously, given a choice as to the type of oil royalty system to be 
implemented, Canadian producers would likely be split on the issue. The larger 
producers and integrateds would probably argue for a cash royalty system to 
maintain volume control while the smaller producers would likely argue for an in- 
kind system given its administrative ease. 

Although there has been some recent discussion with respect to natural gas 
royalties in-kind, they have been from a policy initiative perspective such as 
committing to a take-or-pay obligation on new natural gas pipeline proposals 
These discussions never came to fruition. The government has spent 
substantial sums revising its cash-based natural gas royalty system. One of the 
major components of the revision has been the conversion from a corporate 
price base for royalty valuation to a province-wide reference price base. The 
latter is derived from confidential industry submissions of their monthly gas sales 
to the government. The Alberta reference price is then netted back to the field 
for royalty valuation purposes. 

Implementation of a gas royalty in-kind system would be very onerous due to the 
nature of the current sales and transportation commitments. Many of these 
involve up to ten year contract carriage arrangements and a number of sales to 
aggregators are based on the life of the gas reserves. All of these situations 
have committed both the producer’s equity share together with the royalty share. 
It would obviously be a monumental task to just identify these various 
agreements let alone unwind or assign the obligations on a timely basis. Given 
the above, it is Gulfs belief that an in-kind natural gas royalty system is not a 
realistic option in Canada at this time. 


Gulf Canada Resources Limited 
September 18, 1997 



201 


Danielle Brian 

I appreciate the opportunity to present my views on the Committee's inquiry concerning the 
proposals to require the Department of the Interior's Minerals Management Service (MMS) to take 
royalties in kind, rather than in value, which is the current norm. I am the Executive Director of the 
Project On Government Oversight, since 1981, a non-profit, non-partisan government watchdog 
group. Our mission is to investigate, expose and remedy fraud, mismanagement and subservience 
to coiporate interests by the federal government. 

For the past four years, I have been examining the current federal oil royalty collection program and 
its astounding failures. I have not had experience looking into gas royalty collections, but I do know 
enough to know that the oil and gas markets are different enough that one cannot transpose 
knowledge of oil to the gas market. Over these past few years, it has become crystal clear that the 
American public, along with all other landowners with oil leases, have been losing out on literally 
billions of dollars owed to all of us, simply because we were relying on the arbitrary and archaic 
system of posted prices which undervalues crude oil. 

BACKGROUND ON WHY RIK IS BEING PROPOSED: 

Since the 1960s in California, there has existed a differential between what the major refiners 
were posting as a value and what that oil was actually worth on an open market. Since the 
NYMEX began trading crude oil contracts, it has been clear that a problem exists outside 
California as well. The problem is that all land owners, including the federal government, have 
been paid royalties on the lower posted price, rather than on the value of the oil as determined by 
the open market. Let me emphasize that I am talking about the actual value of unrefined crude 
oil, the reported prices actually paid for crude oil, and not downstream values. 

We believe the companies should be required to pay royalties based on value. The companies 
should not be required to pay one nickel more than what the crude is worth, but they should pay 
every penny they owe. The amount owed is set by the open market, which determines the 
prices, not the phoney posted price system. The NYMEX reports the prices that are paid - it 
does not project prices nor is it an index - it is a reporting of the actual prices companies are 
paying and receiving. Why shouldn't landowners receive royalties on the values corporate 
lessees actually received or acknowledged for the crude oil? 

While POGO was working to expose this discrepancy, MMS was working, too. In a move that 
has not been given the accolades it deserves, MMS concluded that relying on the posted price is 
unworkable, inefficient and most importantly it was allowing billions of dollars to go uncollected 
across the country. 

They came to this decision after the release of their Interagency Task Force that was charged 
with investigating the existence of the postings/maricet discrepancy in California. I apologize for 
the length of this quote from their report, but I believe it is critically important: 

The records discussed below, show California refiners generally preferred 
purchases or exchanges of California crude oil because, at prevailing posted 



202 


prices, profit margins were much higher than for the ANS (Alaska North Slope) 
alternative. 

Therefore, the documents exhibit the extent to which the California oil 
pricing system, i.e., refiners' posted prices, undervaiued California crudes' 
values to the refiners. Since these refiners also produced California Federal 
crude, and to the extent they paid royalty on posted prices, the royalties they 
paid did not reflect the value of the crude oil to the company . In most cases, 
its real value is never seen in the contract transactions because the crude is either 
transferred to the refining arm of the company, or it is exchanged with another 
refiner for replacement crude oil. (emphasis added) 


In other words, the companies were not paying the royalties they knew they owed the 
government. In addition to the use of postings to deliberately underpay royalties, integrated 
companies often use buy/sell exchanges to hide the true value of crude oil. This is not as 
complicated a concept as it sounds. 

Let's take, for the sake of argument, the production arm of a company called Texxon. They 
"sell" a barrel of their crude to Shellaco for $10, even though the barrel was worth $12 on the 
open market. At the other end of the pipeline, the refining arm of Texxon "buys" a barrel of 
crude from Shellaco for $10. Neither company has lost any money, even though they "bought" 
and "sold" barrels for $2 below the market price. What they have established, however, is a 
paper trail for MMS auditors that states that in an arm's length transaction, the price on these 
barrels was $2 below the market price. These are the kinds of games that these companies play 
in order to avoid paying the government, and other landowners, what they owe. 

So MMS decided to make some changes. This, as you know, is not easy for a bureaucracy to do. 
They recognized the need to streamline and make more efficient the royalty collection process, 
so they recommended moving to the market-based valuation system as reported by the NYMEX 
for East of the Rockies, and Alaska North Slope for California. This is the system the integrated 
major oil companies use to value their own oil internally, and of course, these are the prices 
being paid on the market. Not surprisingly. Big Oil raised its head. Until then, these majors had 
been quite silent through this debate. 

Now they realized these improvements to the system - which I note have not yet been finalized 
or implemented -- will result in their having to pay the federal government more in royalties. 

Not surprisingly, they did not like what they saw. 

Law firms and economists were suddenly paid to deluge MMS with criticisms of their proposed 
new rule. It should not come as a surpri.se to us that industry does not want to have to pay what it 
owes for producing on public land - it has been getting away with cheating the public for 
decades. 



203 


These efforts have produced two baseless lies which have, unfortunately, shaped this debate: 

The first lie is that RIK would be better for smaller independents, because MMS' proposed Rule 
is too burdensome for them, or that they would have to pay royalties on prices they did not 
receive. MMS' recent revision to its proposed Rule makes this argument baseless. That is, the 
revised rule allows them to pay royalties on their receipts, not a value derived from NYMEX 
prices. Simply put, the trade associations that purport to represent the interests of small 
independent oil producers are doing their members a great disservice by creating this aura of fear 
around the new Rule. 

The second lie is that paying royalties on the value of the crude imposes an unfair "duty to 
market." This is a sham. They have always had a duty to market. For example, the existing 
rules, put into effect in 1988, state that a lessee has a ". . . duty to the lessor to market the 
production for the mutual benefit of the lessee and the lessor. . and provides that MMS may 
take over the valuation computation if this is not done. The new Rule allows for the deduction of 
location and quality differentials. The myth of additional "value" added by marketers to the 
crude, over and above these differentials, is a fig leaf industry is hiding behind so as not to admit 
they should have been paying royalty owners higher royalties all along. 

The methodology used by MMS to determine location differentials, i.e. the differentials used by 
the companies in making exchange agreements, would subsume all other costs if they existed. 

Of course, we don't believe they do exist. 

To demonstrate this point, before 1986 spot and posted prices East of the Rockies tracked each 
other quite closely, once one accounted for transportation. Therefore, obviously there was no 
added value between the wellhead crude and the crude at the market. Now, with a persistent 
differential between spot and posted prices, there is no reason to attribute it to a purported 
marketing cost. Rather, it is an indication of the undervaluation of the crude. 

The point is also demonstrated by the fact that a number of large independent producers are 
getting prices that are tied to the NYMEX. 

WHY A NATIONWIDE RIK PLAN IS 
NOT IN AMERICANS BEST INTEREST: 

Ironically, industry's proposed RIK plan in some ways would not be very different from what we 
currently have. We are already relying on private marketers to get the best price available for the 
crude produced on federal land. We simply have not been sharing in that value. This system has 
not been good for the federal government, or any other land owners. 

One reason industry’s RIK plan is not in America's best interest is that it will most likely result in 
royalties based on posted prices. The marketers of the government's oil would make their profit 
by collecting the difference between postings and market prices — they would buy the 
government’s oil at postings, and sell it at the maiket price. On the other hand, under the 
proposed Rule, this difference would all go to the government, except in arm's length contracts 
involving small independent producers, who themselves, may not be receiving full value. 



204 


Independents have suffered under the posted price system along with the federal government, 
and other landowners. As characterized by one industry association, independents are ’’price 
takers" not "price setters." Like independents, MMS would be trying to sell even smaller 
quantities of crude. MMS' feasibility study notes that even the marketers do not see any benefit 
from aggregation of federal oil, assuming aggregation is possible. The lack of access to 
transportation to the market drains all of us our bargaining position at the wellhead. 

But instead of improving the situation for independent producers, the RIK program locks the 
federal government into the same powerless condition where we must accept whatever price is 
offered to us by the companies that control or own local pipelines. And guess where we end up? 
Back at posted prices. 

According to Louisiana's testimony, the potential savings we may see by reducing administrative 
costs, are likely to be largely offset by the marketing experts who would need to be hired by the 
government to handle the RIK oil. 

More significantly, the potential administrative savings would likely amount to only a fraction of 
the royalties we would collect if we implement the new Rule. The total operating expense of 
MMS is $60 million annually. The proposed Rule is estimated to increase MMS' revenue by at 
least $100 million annually. Even if the RIK plan allowed us to completely eliminate MMS 
(which it couldn't as MMS is responsible for much more than just crude oil royalty collection), 
the government would still have to collect increased revenue of more than $40 million annually 
to be as effective as a NYMEX value system. 

In MMS’ feasibility study, however, they stated “. . .despite direct inquiries, marketers were not 
able to provide convincing arguments or evidence that oil RIK would be revenue positive.”(p.l6) 
If even the people who would stand to make a profit off the RIK plan cannot show that the 
government would be any better off with it, why on Earth should we do it? 

We have heard today how effective the RIK program is in Alberta. There are enough 
fundamental differences in the relationship between government and industry in Alberta that 
their system could not be transposed to the United States. I submit that our industry would not 
be as enthusiastic about R-I-K if it were subject to such restrictions as exist in Alberta. 

THE PLIGHT OF INDEPENDENTS: 

I understand from your earlier hearing on this subject that Rep. Dooley is particularly concerned 
about the impact of MMS' new rule on the independents. I am also concerned about the impact 
on small independents, and it is quite clear that MMS has been too. In response to the IPAA’s 
concerns, MMS revised the Rule to more than compensate for their unique situation. If the 
independents do not have access to transportation to the market, as is true in California; if they 
are captive sellers, the MMS has proposed that these companies may pay royalties based on what 
they received for the crude. 



205 


WE SHOULD NOT REINVENT THE WHEEL: 

Other land owners across the country — States, private land owners and Native American tribes 
— are rising up, in some cases filing law suits, and demanding payment based on value — the 
full value owed to the land owners. The State of Texas, which testified at your recent hearing, 
has completed a settlement with Chevron. Private royalty owners in Alabama are currently 
settling with Mobil. ARCO is paying New Mexico. All of these States are being paid royalties 
based on the NYMEX. The State of Louisiana is being paid by all leaseholders based on the spot 
prices at St. James. These States have testified that given the choice, they have rejected RIK 
programs in favor of being paid on the value of the oil. The Federal government should learn 
from the decisions being made by States across the country not to use RIK. 

There may very well be unique circumstances where RIK could work. This does not mean, 
however, that MMS should accept a voluntary plan, where companies can dump on us their poor 
quality, small quantity or difficult to transport crude, they would rather not have to deal with. 

I am sure it is not lost on you that industry is in favor of RIK. Of course they are. They are 
interested in their bottom line, not ours. You can’t blame them for trying, but we certainly 
shouldn't let them get away with it. 



206 


FOLLOW-UP ADDRESS 


Danielle Brian 
Executive Director 

Project On Government Oversight 
1900LSt.,NW, Suite 314 
Washington, DC 20036-5027 
(202) 466-5539 



207 




208 


Oversight Hearing on Royalty-In-Kind (R-I-K) Program 
For Oil and Gas Production from U.S. Federal Leases 

Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources of 
The Committee on Resources 

U.S. House of Representatives 

September 18, 1997 


Presented by Richard G. Rorschach, Chairman 
National Association of Royalty Owners, Inc. 


Good afternoon. Chairman Young and members of the committee. I am Richard Rorschach, 
a lawyer with more than 35 years in the practice of oil and gas law I live in Kilgore, Texas. I am the 
Chairman of the National Association of Royalty Owners. I wish to address my comments today to 
the mineral and royalty owners’ interests in and concerns about the changes to the current cash-based 
collection system of royalty owner payments 

My organization, the National Association of Royalty Owners, has nearly 5,000 members 
residing in 47 of the 50 states. Additionally, NARO has been active with over five leading Indian 
tribes, including the Navajo, Apache, Sac and Fox, Osage and Chickasaw. NARO is dedicated to 
the needs of the nation’s more than 4,500,000 mineral and royalty owners. A large number of our 
members are 70 years of age or older. Many of us still live in a rural setting. A great many of us 
rely on our royalty income as a vital supplement to our social security payments. Many rural 
communities still find royalty income their economic lifeline. Royalty income also still enables 
many, many of our farms and ranches to survive the ravages of Mother Nature. An oil country 
banker once called the royalty income of these fanners and ranchers “the financial heartbeat of the 
heartland” So whatever affects the over 4,500,000 mineral and royalty owners has a significant 
effect upon our elderly and those of us in need of additional income. 

1 appeared in Houston, Texas, at a Minerals Management Service public meeting on April 
17, 1997. A copy of my comments on the MMS proposed rule establishing oil value for royalty due 
on federal leases and on sale of federal royalty oil is attached. 

Let me tell you how 1, as a royalty owner, and the other members of NARO view changes to 
the current cash-based collection system in the payments to royalty owners. We have wrestled with 
the problem of ’’posted prices " for years The industry, in recent years, has been in disarray on the 
policy of pricing 1 am advised that in the oil and gas producer-purchaser transaction there are at least 


- I - 



209 


200 factors which go into each very complicated pricing decision. Recently, several lawsuits have 
been filed to protest the use of "posted prices" as a basis for royalty payments, the most publicized 
of which is probably the General Land Office of Texas vs. Amoco, Chevron, Exxon, Marathon, 
Mobil, Phillips, Sun, and Texaco. Union Pacific has been added since the original suit was filed (the 
Union Pacific lawsuit is in Fayette County. Texas, while the main suit is filed in Travis County, 
Texas) These suits, and others like them, will, in my opinion, put the nails in the coffin of "posted 
prices." There will be a different method used to determine the "fair market value" of the production 
on which to base royalty payments. The question is "What is the best method'’" 

The best method, in my opinion, is the one which most easily determines the "fair market 
value" of the production with the least amount of paperwork. If the paperwork, including 
calculations and reporting requirements, becomes burdensome, the independent producer (and in 
sortie cases, the major producers) will simply plug the marginal wells on its federal lease. I am 
advised that the Federal Government has about 61,000 producing wells. Of these nearly 46,000 are 
marginally producing or low volume wells. If these wells are shut-in because of onerous 
administrative requirements on the producer, we, as nation, stand to lose nearly 140,000 barrels of 
oil production per day. And remember, any loss of domestic production, from Federal leases or 
private leases, will result in additional importing of foreign oil (Reliance on foreign oil has been 
reported by the Commerce Department to endanger our national security.) Then, let us not overlook 
the paperwork burden on Washington. Recall the days of the Federal Power Commission when 
pipelines were required to submit pricing requests. Truckloads of submissions were sent to the FPC 
and were stored in warehouses untouched. Finally, the FPC was required to issue temporary pricing 
structures until the original applications could be examined. Many never were. Would we be looking 
at a similar situation if voluminous reporting requirements are placed on producers? 

Today the average "mom and pop" business in the oil field is the operation of marginally 
producing or low volume wells These operators are now totally over their heads with regulations 
and federal environmental requirements In southeast Oklahoma, one of our key producing areas, 
I am advised that many marginally producing or low volume wells are being needlessly plugged and 
abandoned because the operators are no longer able to keep up with the reporting requirements and 
still make a profit Will we experience this type of waste on Federal leases with yet additional 
paperwork? 

How do we avoid a mass of paperwork and receive "fair market value" for our royalty? 
Royalty-In-Kind may Just be the solution. Some years ago the Texas Railroad Commission held 
monthly meetings where purchasers nominated the amount of crude oil needed for their operations 
for the following month. The meetings were held in Austin, Texas, and lasted perhaps 2-3 hours. 
After the nominations, the TRC set the monthly production for the following month. This method 
worked fairly well. Possibly with an R-I-K program the MMS could hold similar meetings in various 
districts of the US where purchasers could bid on Federal oil for the following month. 

These auctions would be open to any qualified purchaser and would ensure a realistic market 
value for the product. Obviously, the successful purchaser would consider all factors which make 
up the price of the product when making a bid The MMS would realize the maximum market price 
for the product Paperwork would be at a minimum No additional personnel would be required at 


- 2 - 



the MMS to process this procedure. 

I understand that Canada has an R-I-K procedure. Thirty-three Canadian employees market 
146,000 barrels per day of Canadian oil under this method. Further, I have been advised that the 
MMS has jurisdiction over 204,000 barrels of oil per day. The MMS has 950 employees. Surely we 
can perform as well as our Canadian neighbors. 

As a royalty owner with production from any one lease averaging no more than 2-3 barrels 
of oil per day (this is probably representative of at least 75% of NARO membership) taking royalty- 
in-kind is not an alternative. We must rely on our producers to market our production for us under 
the terms of our oil and gas leases. Our leases, like those of many Indian tribes, have grown 
increasingly more sophisticated over the past few years. We rely on and believe that our transactions, 
present and future, should be governed by our lease language, not by rules and regulations coming 
from others who know very little of our industry or our operations. Our lease language has evolved 
so that we are now getting what we believe to be a "fair market value" for our production. The goal 
of the National Association of Royalty Owners is this: 

"The establishment of fair, accurate, and workable pricing and reporting practices to the end 
that a 'true' value for basing royalty calculations can be determined." 

We in NARO think that an R-I-K program, where feasible, will meet this goal. 

This concludes my remarks I thank the committee for the opportunity to appear here today. 



211 


COMMENTS 
Proposed MMS Rule 

Establishing Oil Value For Royalty Due On Federal Leases 
And On Sale Of Federal Royalty Oil 

-- by Richard G. Rorschach, Kilgore, Texas 
Chairman, National Association of Royalty Owners 


As a beginning comment, it is obvious, considering the political climate at the MMS and 
other places in Washington, D.C., that a rule will be promulgated which will establish oil value for 
royalty due on Federal leases and on sale of Federal royalty oil. 

The intent of the proposed rule is to “add more certainty to valuation of oil produced from 
Federal lands and eliminate any direct reliance on posted prices.” This is a problem which the 
domestic industry has wrestled with for years. Recently, several lawsuits have been filed to protest 
the use of “posted prices" as a basis for royalty payments, the most notorious of which is 
probably the General Land Office of the State of Texas vs. Amoco, Chevron, Exxon, Marathon, 
Mobil, Phillips, Sun, and Texaco. I think Union Pacific has been added since the original suit was 
filed. 


Under the proposed rule, two types of sales would be recognized: 

1) the arm's length resale price, and 

2) the monthly average of the NYMEX 

It is apparent from the definitions that the MMS considers that very few, if any, sales will 
be made as arm’s length transactions. The method specified in the proposed rules using the 
monthly average of the NYMEX is so complicated that a producer, other than possibly a major, 
will not economically be able to comply. The paper work alone would be disastrous. Faced with 
the calculations and the reporting requirements of the proposed regulation, the independent (and in 
some cases, the major producers) will simply plug the marginal wells on its Federal lease(s). I 
don’t know the volume of marginal well production from Federal leases, but any loss of domestic 
production, from Federal leases or private leases, will result in additional importing of foreign oil. 
(Reliance on foreign oil has been reported by the Commerce Department to endanger our national 
security.) 

Then consider the volume of paperwork which would be sent to Washington. Recall the 
days of the FPC when pipelines were required to submit pricing requests. Trucks unloaded in 
Washington with the submissions. They were stored in warehouses untouched. Finally, the FPC 
was required to issue temporary pricing structures until the original applications could be 
examined. Some, (many?) never were. Are we looking at a similar scenario? As an example, 
consider the language on page 48 of the proposed regulations. 



212 


Page 2 


“MMS has included a copy of proposed Form MMS-4415 as Attachment A to these 
proposed regulations. Information submitted on the new form would cover all of the lessee’s and 
its affiliate’s crude oil production, and not lust informarion related to Federal or Indian lease 
production. " (emphasis added). 

MMS will need an untold number of new employees to catalogue this mass of production 
information. 

Then consider the confusion in reporting using the NYMEX value, as adjusted per the 
proposed regulations. With so many factors involved in the pricing of crude oil the seemingly 
simple calculations illustrated in the proposed rules will not result in a true market value for the 
product. The affected producer may well wonder what will be the punishment if the value is 
calculated incorrectly! And when will the incorrect calculation be discovered? What will be the 
penalty? How long will it take the statute of limitations to ran? 

What, then, might be a more simple method requiring little paper work and a more certain 
market value of the product? 

Sbme years ago the Texas Railroad Commission held a monthly meeting where producers 
nominated the amount of crude oil needed for their operations for the following month. The 
meeting was held in Austin, Texas, each month and lasted perhaps 2 - 3 hours. After the 
nominations, the TRC set the monthly production for the following month. This method worked 
fairly well. Perhaps the MMS could hold similar type meetings in various districts of the US 
where purchasers could bid on Federal oil for the following month. 

These auctions would be open to any qualified purchaser and would ensure a realistic 
market value for the product. Obviously, the successful purchaser would consider all the factors 
which make up the price of crude oil when making a bid. The MMS would realize the maximum 
market price for the oil. Paperwork would be at a minimum as would any exposure to the 
purchaser for penalties incurred for calculating an incorrect price. No additional personnel would 
be required at the MMS to process this procedure. 


The National Association of Royalty Owners, Inc. 

119 N. Broadway, Ada, OK 74820 

Phone: (405) 436*0034 Fax: (405) 436-1535 E-Mail: naro@chickasaw.com 



213 


Written Statement 
of 

Edwin S. Rothschild 
Energy Policy Director 
Citizen Action 
before the 

Committee on Resources 
Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 
U.S. House of Representatives 
September 18, 1997 


■ Dear Madam Chairwoman and Members of the Committee: 

My name is Edwin S. Rothschild, Energy Policy Director of Citizen Action, a nationwide 
consumer organization with members in 3 1 states. Citizen Action has been involved in energy 
issues since its founding in 1978. I have worked as a consumer advocate on energy issues since 
1972. 

We are here today to discuss proposals for the federal government to take its oil and gas royalties 
in kind. Before examining such proposals in detail, we would like to make several observations 
that bear directly on this issue. 

We note, first, that oil and gas industry efforts promoting royalty in kind began in earnest only 
after the Minerals Management Service (“MMS") proposed changing the valuation method for the 
collection of royalties on oil and gas produced from federal onshore and offshore lands. It is 
strange, to say the least, that for 75 years oil and gas leaseholders had no burning desire for a 
royalty in kind system and were content with a system of posted prices. When questions began to 
be raised about the posted price system and when proposals were advanced to go to a system 
using prices based on the competitive marketplace, then royalty-in-kind suddenly had some 
appeal. Moreover, having spent a great deal of time and effort in opposing the federal 
government’s sale of the prolific Elk Hills oil field, we are struck by the irony of the industry now 
wanting to get the government into the oil business, after arguing vociferously about the need to 
get the government out of the oil business. 

As a consumer organization, we are really not wedded to any one system of collecting federal oil 
and gas royalties as long as those methods or systems chosen ensure that the public, which own 
the resources, receive the maximum revenues to which they are legally entitled under existing 
economic conditions. Moreover, as Members of Congress you have the very important duty of 
examining and reviewing such proposals very closely because, as elected government officials, 
you have a fiduciary responsibility to ensure that the public, that is the U.S. Treasury, obtains full 
value for their property. 


We also would like to note that significant structural changes in the oil and natural gas 
marketplace must be recognized when considering various royalty proposals For example, over 



214 


the past 25 years the oil industry has undergone enormous consolidation. A veritable handful of 
companies produce most of the oil on federal lands. Those same producers are also the nation’s 
largest oil refiners. In these companies, oil and gas production almost always goes through one or 
more transfers within the companies before it is sold, exchanged, or refined by the companies. 
There is no such thing as an aims-length transaction between affiliates or subsidiaries of the same 
parent company. Furthermore, the large companies rarely sell oil outright, they almost always 
exchange away what they do not keep for their own use. Since most of the oil produced on 
federal lands is produced by large, vertically integrated oil companies and since there are now only 
a small number (and likely soon to be even fewer) of those companies in the marketplace, a real 
market price transaction does not exist on which to base federal royalties, or state royalties for 
that matter. Therefore, MMS’s proposal to use NYMEX as the base upon which market prices 
can be determined not only makes economic sense, but is highly appropriate. 

This is not to say that royalty in kind should never be used. On the contrary, it may make sense in 
a number of instances -- selling offshore volumes of natural gas, for example. However, we 
would strongly urge the Committee not to accept the clearly self-serving comments of oil and gas 
industry executives that royalty in kind should be applicable to any and all leases, especially not 
on a voluntary basis, as a few have suggested. Rather, we urge the Committee to examine the 
industry’s views under a clear and powerful microscope keeping in mind that it is highly unlikely 
that oil and gas producers would promote a policy that would actually increase government 
revenues at their expense. 

In your letter of invitation. Madam Chairwoman, you asked about the connection between 
structural changes in the oil and gas industry and the implementation of a royalty in kind 
collection program. We believe that there is sufficient evidence to conclude that consolidation in 
the oil and gas industry and the lack of effective competition in some key markets could undercut 
a royalty in kind program. 

Tables 1 and 2 below indicate how the ten largest oil producers in the nation have remained 
remarkably stable over time, despite the sharp decline in the overall number of producers and the 
overall decline in domestic petroleum output. In 1982, the Oil & Gas Journal proudly remarked, 
“The mere compilation of the OGJ 400 demonstrates the immense size and diversity of the 
petroleum industry.” Yet, in a few short years, this number would be whittled down, in part 
because of changing economic conditions and in part because of a spate of mergers and 
acquisitions. Gulf was devoured by Chevron; Mobil acquired Superior; Texaco bought out Getty; 
Sohio was captured by British Petroleum. There were many others, but these were some of the 
largest consolidations during the 1980s. By 1991. the 0/7 had to report that it’s 

once proud OGJ 400 had become the OGJ 300, because “industry consolidation has slashed the 
number of public companies.” And, again in 1995, the Oil & Gas Journal reported that the OGJ 
300 had shrunk down to the OGJ 200. “Mergers, acquisitions, and other forms of consolidation 
have again shrunk the Oil & Gas Journal list of publicly-traded oil and gas producers in the U.S.” 
Today, the consolidation of oil producers continues. The production units of Shell and Mobil, for 


2 



215 


example, have joined forces in California,' and Texaco recently purchased Monterrey Resources 
for $1.4 billion.' 

Industry consolidation also has taken place at the oil refining and marketing levels of the industry. 
The disappearance of independent refiners and marketers and the combination of some of the 
nation’s largest integrated oil companies has sharply reduced the number of domestic oil 
purchasers. With fewer domestic crude oil purchasers, there is less overall competition, that is, 
fewer bidders for the remaining supplies that are sold into the open market Similarly, there is also 
growing consolidation in natural gas and electricity markets. Such combinations include pipelines 
buying pipelines; gas companies buying electric companies; electric companies buying gas 
companies; and electric companies buying electric companies — all with an eye to controlling 
delivery of Btus and kilowatts from production or generation to the burner tip. The growing 
concern by the remaining small and some large independent oil and natural gas producers about 
wellhead prices for oil and natural gas has a lot to do with this growing consolidation in the oil 
and natural gas markets. In some regions, independent producers have been forced to sell at 
much lower prices because purchasers control the only means of moving the product from the 
field to market. 

Table 1 traces the changes in oil (liquids) production as reported in the industry trade publication. 
Oil & Gas Journal, for the years 1982-1 996 It clearly demonstrates that Exxon, BP, Arco, Shell, 
Texaco, Chevron, Mobil and Amoco have dominated U S. oil production. Not surprisingly, these 
are the same eight companies which are among the ten largest payors of oil and gas royalties 
(Table 3) to the U S Government paying 61% of all onshore and offshore royalties paid for oil 
Moreover, as Table 3 also shows, these same companies pay a much smaller part of the royalties 
on natural gas production (42%) suggesting that production Is dispersed among more companies, 
including many independents. 


3 



216 

































































217 


Table 2 


Liquids Production By Top 10 Companies And As A Percent 
of Top 400, 300, and 200 

1982-1996 
(000 bbis) 

Year 

Top 10 
Companies 

Top Companies 

Percent Top 10 

Top 400 

1982 

1643200 

NA 

NM 

1983 

1632800 

2357300 

69% 

1984 

1539000 

2239378 

69% 

1985 

1684300 

2417010 

70% 

1986 

1660100 

2360400 

70% 

1987 

1668000 

2343500 

71% 

1988 

1660000 

2312600 

72% 

1989 

1560000 

2145100 

73% 

Top 300 

1990 

1467000 

2029000 

72% 

1991 

1515400 

2094000 

72% 

1992 

1409800 

1967000 

72% 

1993 

1308900 

1877000 

70% 

1994 

1278800 

1854000 

69% 

Top 200 

1995 

1261000 

1828000 

69% 

1996 

1245000 

1820000 

68% 

Source; OH ct Gas Journal, various issues. 


5 









































































218 




Top Teu Ro>a]ty Payor? - 1996 | 

1 ( ontpmy 


Cux\ 

Total 


$193,043,793 

$168,662,408 

$361,706,201 


$158,395,170 

$158,965,381 

$317,360,551 

t rx * 

$156,756,227 

$91,998,760 

$248,754,987 


$88,826,287 

$122,995,288 

$211,821,575 

M-hlt 

$63,808,900 

$78,760,205 

$142,569,105 

Antf<o 

$41,649,258 

$96,934,509 

$138,583,767 

1 llWUl 

$39,437,517 

$93,051,833 

$132,489,350 

Ai^o fl’aMar) 

$42,204,665 

$63,248,893 

$105,453,558 

hAaroihon 



$91,790,669 

m 

$42,826,430 

$9,721,547 

$52,547,977 

T( III 

$883,956,842 

$919,120,898 

$1,803,077,740 

(16 rwal 

$1,452,092,920 

$2,175,636,703 

$3,627,729,623 

Percent lop leu 

61% 

42% 

50% 



Before analyzing and assessing the applicability and feasibility of a royalty in kind program for use 
on federal oil and gas leases, it is important to ask why, suddenly, the industry is making such an 
intense effort to persuade you and the Interior Department to move to such a program? First, we 
think it is important to recognize recent state and federal efforts to collect underpayments of 
royalties from previous production, the value of which was tied to posted prices. As recently 
reported by Business Week. “The current wave of oil royalty litigation was prompted, in large 
part, by eye-popping judgments against the industry. In 1992, for example, the state of California 
received a settlement of S350 million from seven large oil companies after a two-decade struggle. 
And in 1994, Alaska recovered $3.7 billion."’ Furthermore, on behalf of the state ofTexas and 
private royalty owners, Texas filed a lawsuit in 1995 against eight oil companies. The first 


6 
















































219 


company to settle the suit was Chevron which agreed to reimburse the State and the other royalty 
owners $17.5 million for payments going back to 1986. In addition, Chevron also agreed to a 
new valuation formula based on prices for West Texas Intermediate crude oil as reflected on 
NYMEX for all production after January I, 1997. On December 20, 1995, the MMS published 
an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking about possible changes to the rules for royalty 
valuation from Federal and Indian leases As explained by MMS, “The intent was to decrease 
reliance on oil posted prices and to develop valuation rules that better reflect market value.” 

The decision to move away from artificial, non-market based posted prices set off volcanic 
tremors and tectonic movement from Houston to Casper This shift from posted prices to 
market-based prices would clearly enhance federal and state revenues and sharply reduce the need 
for complex audits of intricate intra-company and other transactions We also note that both large 
integrated and large independent companies tend to refuse MMS auditors access to trading 
affiliates’ records. Clearly, without appropriate records, it becomes difficult, if not impossible, to 
track pricing transactions. 

Ironically, even though NYMEX is being proposed by MMS as the base on which to calculate the 
price at the lease (after adjusting for location and quality), some in the oil industry are claiming 
that NYMEX prices do not accurately reflect the market. A reading of oil company 10-K filings 
to the Securities and Exchange Commission, however, clearly shows that most large companies, 
integrated and independent alike, report that they use NYMEX to hedge their own oil and gas 
sales. By doing so they show utmost confidence that changes in NYMEX prices go right along 
with changes in local prices directionally and in absolute terms Otherwise, why would they use 
NYMEX? On this critical point, what should the Committee believe: what the companies tell 
their shareholders on their 1 0-Ks, or what they tell the government about a change that will help 
to correct royalty underpayment. 

Clearly, from the point of view of the public trust, MMS was moving in the right direction, 
especially with regard to dealing with the problem of non-arms length transactions. Because most 
of the transactions on federal oil leases are not arms-length, there is no competition. The 
transaction is between affiliates or subsidiaries of the same company, usually the production arm 
selling to the trading arm or to the refining arm Thus, if there is no competitive market price, 
how can the public obtain fair market value without engaging the government in long-term, 
complex audits7 Substituting an RIK program on offshore oil sales for the collection of royalties 
based on NYMEX is of dubious value. Who else, for example, other than Shell, is going to 
purchase oil from Shell’s billion dollar Cognac field in the deep waters of the Gulf? Shell clearly 
expects to obtain all the oil produced on that lease to feed its refinery in Louisiana. Thus, 
implementing an RIK program on such leases is very likely to cost the government money - 
money to pay for hiring a knowledgeable marketing firm as well as other experts and because 
there is little evidence to suggest other buyers would come a calling. Of course, the government 
could refuse to sell to Shell until Shell paid what the government thought was fair, but then Shell 
would probably complain that the government is taking unfair advantage and should be prohibited 
from such activity. Based on the structure of the market and the fact that the bulk of royalty oil 


7 



220 


production is in areas where competitive arms-lengih transactions are limited at best, we believe 
that an RIK program would not yield as much revenue to the Treasury as basing the royalty on 
NYMEX prices adjusted for location and quality. 

With regard to natural gas, however, an RIK program might be worthwhile. Certainly, it is worth 
conducting additional pilot programs to test this hypothesis. Following the deregulation of 
natural gas markets and with the beginning of deregulation in electricity markets, there is some 
reason to believe that large volumes of natural gas from the Gulf of Mexico could command 
market prices sufficiently higher than current levels. Of course, in order to work, an RIK program 
cannot be operated on a voluntary basis as some in the industry have argued. The government 
must have the authority to take as much of its royalty gas as it deems necessary to obtain fair 
market value. 

While there may be some reasons to consider RIK programs in onshore areas, it is impossible for 
the federal government to move forward unless the states do so as well. At this point in time, 
while we understand Wyoming is moving forward and Texas has made some efforts in the area, 
neither California, nor Louisiana seem to be interested in such a program. 

We’d also like to comment on several issues that have been raised by the companies promoting 
RIK. Many of their spokesmen make a big issue out of the costs of government oversight and 
auditing. According to the MMS, the annual costs of administering the entire royalty system is 
S66 million, of which approximately $20 million is used for audits. The audits, at least since 
1982, have generated approximately $125 million a year in revenue. Thus, for every dollar spent, 
the government gets about six. Secondly, industry spokespeople ignore the fact that there are 
costs associated with implementing an RIK program, not the least of which, is paying and 
overseeing marketers hired to sell the government’s royalty oil or gas. 

We also think it is curious that smaller independent oil and gas producers are complaining loudly 
about the proposed royalty system witen they are likely to do far better financially under such a 
system than they do now. The fact is that, at least with respect to oil, smaller independents 
receive the posted price for all their production, rather than the higher NYMEX-based price. 

Such a system primarily benefits the major integrated oil and large independent companies at the 
expense of smaller independent producers. Instead of criticizing MMS, we believe the smaller 
independents ought to be thanking the agency. According to the MMS’s supplementary proposed 
rule, smaller independent producers will, for the most part, not be even subject to NYMEX-based 
prices, assuming they engage in arms-lengih competitive transactions. For such transactions, they 
would be allowed to use gross proceeds paid. 

Finally, we believe it is important to point out that a number of oil and gas industry spokespeople 
have criticized the concept of “Duty to Market,” claiming that there are some vaguely defined 
“costs,” beyond legitimate location and quality adjustments, associated with moving oil or gas 
from the lease. Historically, producers have always marketed royalty production. They have an 
impled common law duty which has been legally upheld. Any attempt to alter this relationship 


8 



221 


could result in a breech of contract. Since contractual relationships undergird all of the 
government’s oil and gas leasing arrangements^ such abreech of contract, even if legislatively 
mandated, could result in extensive litigation. 

In summary, we believe that whatever royalty program is adopted or used by the MMS, it must 
result in prices determined by competitive market forces and in fair market value. We believe 
with respect to transactions regarding oil leases which are not competitive and not arms-length, 
that prices be determined on the basis of NYMEX adjusted for location and quality. We believe it 
is reasonable to proceed with additional RIK pilots, especially with respect to natural gas, since it 
appears that market conditions may be more favorable, especially in the Gulf of Mexico, for such 
a program. Finally, we also think it makes sense to cany out additional pilot programs for oil and 
gas onshore, but recognize it can only work in states that are also willing to implement such a 
program. 


9 



222 


NOTES 

1 . “Shell Affiliate CalResources and Mobil Complete Definitive Agreements on California E&P 
Company,” Shell Press Release, June 2, 1997. 

2. “Texaco to Buy Monterey Resources for 11.4 Billion in Stock and Debt,” Los Angeles Times, 
August 19, 1997. 

3. “A Royalty Pain for the Big Oil Companies.” Business Week. September 1, 1997. 


10 



223 


Supplemental Sheet 


Edwin S. Rothschild 
Citizen Action 
1900 L Street, N.W. 
Suite 602 

Washington, D.C. 20036 
(202) 775-1580 



224 


ROYALTY-IN-KIND FOR OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION 
FROM U.S. FEDERAL LEASES 

Testimony OF: 

LINDEN C. SMITH 
Managing Director 
Barents Group LLC 
A KPMG Company 

Before THE 

Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 
Committee on Resources 
United States House of Representatives 

ON BEHALF OF; 

American Association of Professional Landmen 
American Petroleum Institute 
Colorado On, and Gas Association 
Domestic Petroleum Council 
Independent Petroleum Association of America 
Independent Petroleum Association of the mountain States 
independent petroleum Association of New Mexico 
Mid-Continent On, and Gas Association 
Montana Petroleum Association 
National Ocean Industries Association 
Natural Gas Supply Association 
NEW Mexico On, and Gas Association 
North Dakota Petroleum Counce. 

North Texas On, and Gas Association 
Oklahoma independent Petroleum association 
Petroleum Association of Wyoming 
Rocky Mountain On, and Gas Association 
Rocky Mountain On, and Gas Association - Colorado 
Texas Independent Producers and Royalty Owners Association 
Utah Petroleum Association 
WY oivflNG Independent Producers Association 


September 18, 1997 



225 


My name is Linden C. Smith, and I am a Managing Director of Barents Group LLC, a 
KPMG Company. I lead the Firm’s Legislative and Regulatory Policy Practice. I am here 
today to discuss how a permanent royalty-in-kind program can provide a net benefit to the 
Federal Government, the states, and lessees, and more specifically, to focus on the federal 
policy and budgetary implications of an RIK program. I appear today on behalf of the 
following 21 industry trade associations: 

American Association of Professional Landmen 

American Petroleum Institute 

Colorado Oil and Gas Association 

Domestic Petroleum Council 

Independent Petroleum Association of America 

Independent Petroleum Association of the Mountain States 

Independent Petroleum Association of New Mexico 

Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association 

Montana Petroleum Association 

National Ocean Industries Association 

Natural Gas Supply Association 

New Mexico Oil and Gas Association 

North Dakota Petroleum Council 

North Texas Oil and Gas Association 

Oklahoma Independent Petroleum Association 

Petroleum Association of Wyoming 

Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Association 

Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Association - Colorado 

Texas Independent Producers and Royalty Owners Association 

Utah Petroleum Association 

Wyoming Independent Producers Association 

A description of these organizations is contained in Attachment 1. These associations 
represent producers of essentially all of the oil and gas produced in the U.S. — including 
the Gulf of Mexico, the Rocky Mountains, Wyoming, New Mexico, California, and all the 
other states with production on federal lands. 

Before joining Barents Group in 1987, I was on the staff of the congressional Joint 
Committee on Taxation for 11 years and with the U.S Treasury Department and the 
Internal Revenue Service for 4 years as an economist and revenue estimator. During 15 
years of Federal Government score-keeping experience, I was responsible for developing 
federal budgetary impact estimates of numerous legislative provisions affecting the IRS, 
business taxpayers in all industries, and especially in the oil and gas industry. During the 
past 1 1 years, I have performed similar work for govenunent and private sector clients, 
with a significant share of this work in the energy area. In addition to my representation 
today, Barents has also been retained to comment on MMS’ proposed crude oil valuation 
rule and has recently filed three sets of conunents with MMS and the Office of 
Management and Budget on behalf of industry associations. 



226 


I would like to address two issues today. First, I will discuss the attributes of a well- 
designed royalty system. That is, if we could step back from the practices and biases of 
the current system, what would we want a more effective and efficient replacement system 
to accomplish? Second, I will discuss revenue considerations critical to the design of any 
replacement system. Clearly, any serious legislative alternative will need to be revenue 
neutral. While an RIK program is not the only approach for addressing the many concerns 
raised by the current system, it could be the approach that best satisfies what I would 
suggest are objective requirements for a good royalty system, while accomplishing the 
revenue neutrality objective. 

Characteristics of a good royalty system 

Needs to be market driven . The general concept of fair market value reflects the agreed- 
upon cash price in actual transactions between willing and knowledgeable buyers and 
sellers with opposing economic interests. Simply stated — it is what the purchaser paid and 
the seller received. Fair market value is the principle that all parties in the debate accept - 
the issue is how to measure it. The most accurate measure of fair market value will be 
based on arm’s-length prices actually received in the marketplace. All agree, the 
marketplace for oil and gas is at the lease where the oil and gas is produced. An RIK 
program can clearly satisfy this objective if independent marketers are responsible for all 
dispositions of the federal share of production 

Recognizes that arm’s-length prices received vary from trans action to transaction. There 
is no single price for crude oil, natural gas, or indeed for any other commodity, in any 
given field or area — let alone in a region or nationwide. A number of factors cause prices 
to vary in local markets and regions across the U.S. No one, for example, expects to 
always pay the same price for a quart of milk at different locations. True arm’s-length 
prices for a given location and point in time vary depending upon the specific needs of the 
buyer and the seller. Any accurate valuation system must recognize that the appropriate 
value will fall within a reasonable range of values. Real estate is a classic example of the 
importance of location in determining price. The aggregation of volumes can significantly 
influence the price received. With different lessees controlling differing volumes, we 
expect price variation to occur. Because an RIK program will be based on market 
transactions, it will automatically capture the diversity of the marketplace. This, of 
course, would not be true of MMS’ currently proposed oil valuation rule, which assumes a 
starting point of a uniform “correct” national price for crude oil from a New York futures 
paper price that would be netted back to the lease through adjustments. There is no 
national price for milk or real estate and should not be a national price for oil and gas. 

Recognizes that value is added after oil and gas is produced at the well on the lease. 
Various steps and processes are required to deliver crude oil and natural gas to its final 
destination that add value to the produa Adding value requires investment, results in 


' MMS several times refers to the determination of value at the lease as being the objective of the proposed 
oil valuation rule. See, for example. Federal Register: January 24, 1997 (Volume 62, Number 16)|, 3747. 


2 



227 


costs, and necessitates a market rate of return whether such value is added by the lessee, 
the lessee’s affiliate, or a third party. It is no more appropriate to impose royalties on 
costs downstream of the lease, including downstream marketing costs, than it is to impose 
royalties on the costs of operating a gasoline station. Both add value to the product. 
Neither requires investment by the lessor. Neither is related to the lessor’s mineral rights. 
This value added does not result from the lessor’s ownership of the mineral rights, but 
rather results from the required investment and activities to earn a profit downstream of 
the lease. 

As I said, all agree that the value to be captured is at the lease. From my perspective as an 
economist, I believe that any approach that attempts to capture royalties on the value 
added after the lease will operate more like a tax where the tax base varies with the 
amount of investment associated with marketing. The more investment and effort put into 
marketing, the greater the tax. As a result, an approach such as was contemplated under 
the proposed oil valuation rule will distort investment choices to the long run detriment of 
the nation’s economy. An RJK program, at or near the lease could avoid this controversy 
and the potential marketplace distortions 

Is administrable by MMS and bv lessees . A system that cannot be administered will 
fiustrate the intent of all parties. While this statement may appear to be self-evident, it is a 
warning to not over complicate whatever system the Committee chooses to pursue. 

Is perceived bv all parties as providing fairness and equity to the Federal Government, 
state governments, producers, operators, marketers, and refiners . If some parties do not 
believe they are being treated fairly, the credibility of the system will suffer, compliance 
will be reduced, investment and production will fall, and the approach will have failed 
This, of course, is one reason for today’s hearing Once it is understood how an RIK 
program will and will not operate, we should be able to make progress in an area where 
there is now disagreement and controversy. 

Avoids economic distortions . Any government-mandated methodology that produces an 
inappropriate value will distort investment and production decisions One need only look 
at the economic damage suffered by the real estate industry during the 1980s. Federal tax 
incentives first encouraged over-building, and after the boom was well underway, a 
subsequent and retroactive tax policy change destroyed a great deal of economic value. If 
the effertive royalty rate exceeds the contractual royalty rate through the use of a royalty 
valuation methodology that overstates market value, less investment and production will 
result. Initially, this will raise royalty payments, but in the long run, it may reduce 
royalties and particularly lease bonus payments from government lands. 

When making investment decisions, oil and gas producers choose projects that provide the 
best return, and the royalty rate is a key component in measuring profitability. An RDC 
program would not create such distortions because the lessee would be delivering the 
royalty volumes in the percentage stated in the lease contract. 


3 




228 


Avoids distributional inequities . As with economic distortions more generally, any system 
that unduly burdens one segment of the industry more than another will result in not only 
the perception of unfairness, but also in resource misallocation. If some producers are 
unfairly burdened through disproportionately high compliance costs or below market 
returns, their operating costs \^1 increase and the value of their activity will fall. This 
clearly would have occurred under MMS* oil valuation rule as originally proposed where 
even tiny purchases of crude oil would have resulted in some operators being no longer 
eligible for the gross proceeds valuation method and being instead required to use a New 
York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX)-based value. In the long run, such distortions 
could force industry consolidation so that fewer companies will operate on federal Ituids. 
While such a policy has not been proposed, if a valuation approach should result in some 
companies bearing a disproportionate share of the costs, it would affect their market 
values and investment patterns Compared with the normal operation of the market today, 
this would ultimately lead to the sale or transfer of properties at what would otherwise be 
less than market value, or a reduction in new investment. Other producers who acquire 
these properties might not be able to operate them as efficiently. 

Care must be taken to avoid government-mandated distributional inequities that affect 
companies according to their specific characteristics, such as their roles in the 
marketplace. If a royalty system disproportionately harms, for example, refiners or 
resellers, they will be forced to play a reduced role in the market. Therefore, a royalty 
system should be designed to prevent the distortion of investment and production 
decisions based upon company characteristics. To do otherwise will lead to inefficient 
resource allocation and market distortions to the detriment of all parties An RIK system 
that applies equally to all market participants will avoid these potential problems. 

Is capable of being applied to changing markets . An inflexible regulatory approach that 
does not allow for changes in relative market values at the lease of different quantities, 
qualities, or in different locations will fail to reliably assess fair market values. An RIK 
program, by reflecting the value placed on production by the market, will inunediately 
respond to market-place changes in a way that regulations designed to establish value 
never can. 

Government revenue considerations 

Except on tax issues, the Congressional Budget Office is the congressional agency 
responsible for estimating budget effects of proposed legislation (the congressional Joint 
Committee on Taxation handles the scoring of tax issues). My comments on budget 
scoring effects are my own turd should in no way be attributed to CBO. However, they 
reflect many years of score-keeping experience. 

A budget score-keeping estimate measures the difference between a current law baseline 
and the proposed legislative alternative. Because the Committee is not yet considering a 
specific legislative proposal, it is impossible to draw firm conclusions about the budget 
consequences of an as yet unwritten RIK proposal other than to observe that the ultimate 


4 



229 


design of such a proposal will matter greatly in acMewng revenue neutrality. However, an 
RDC program that meets the criteria outlined above can be designed to at least neutrally, if 
not favorably, impact the Treasury. The fbUowing are a few of the more important design 
feature that will need to be considered.^ 

Does the proposal change current law ? Score-keepers will fece the issue of whether 
proposed legislation actually changes current law. If legislation simply provides additional 
options to MMS, it is unlikely to be scored. MMS has bare authority to take in kind 
today. To be scored, any legislation considered by the Committee must require MMS to 
act differently than it now does. 

Will the RIK program be mandatory or voluntary ? A program where MMS has sole 
discretion to determine which volumes to take in kind may under some circumstances 
generate a revenue gain because the agency could cherry-pick only those volumes that 
MMS believes will increase government revenues, while excluding from an RIK program 
those volumes where there might be no gain. As discussed above, however, score-keepers 
might not acknowledge this result because MMS largely has this authority today. 
Similarly, lessees delivering in kind only those volumes where they find it most 
advantageous to do so would be scored as generating a revenue loss. A well-designed, 
mandatory system avoids both results and would be scored. From an efficiency 
standpoint, MMS, the states, and industry are unlikely to benefit from significant cost 
reductions with an optional program. 

What is the budgetary impact on the current RIK small refiner set-aside prog'am ? In 
1995, the most recent year for which MMS has published complete data, on a value- 
weighted basis MMS took 29 percent of its crude oil in kind (2.4 million barrels or 13.5 
percent of onshore value and 19.3 million barrels or 34 percent of value offshore). While 
we do not yet have complete MMS data for 1996, as illustrated in Figure 1, the RK 
program volume and value increased by more than 50 percent over 1995 levels with 33.0 
million barrels valued at $566 million taken in kind (2.3 million barrels onshore and 30.7 
million barrels o^hore). As noted by MMS in the proposed oil valuation rule, the 
existing RK. program has been criticized for several of its procedures.’ Depending upon 
its features, RK legislation could raise or reduce revenues attributable to the existing RK 
program, even though it is already in operation. 


^ In this discussion, knowledge is assmned of certain basic score-lseping practices and procedures that 
apply to aB proposed legislation. These include the scoring of changes in Treasury cash collections within 
each federal fiscal year (ending September 30), the distinction between the treatment of some government 
revenue flows on the receipts side of the budget and other revenue Hows, including MMS receipts, as 
offsets to budgetary spending, and the consideration of budgetary consequences within a specified time 
period of at least 5 years and typically no more than 10 years. In addition, it is important to recognize in 
the scoring process that, in general, half of any onshore budgetary consequences will be shared with the 
states, trfiile all of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act budget effects, excqrt for Section S{g) leases, 
will be attributable to the Federal Government 

’ See Federal Register: January 24, 1997 (Volume 62, Number 16)], 3750. 


5 



230 


While the reasons are unclear and we must be cautious in interpreting these data without 
ftirther research, the current onshore RDC program generates a higher net value per barrel 
for MMS than does the royalty in value program. In each year from 1992 through 1995, 
the current onshore RIK program resulted in values ranging from a low of 4 percent to a 
high of 1 5.6 percent above the average value for all federal onshore oil royalty production. 
In 1995, for example, MMS received $17.00 per barrel for the onshore RIK program, 
while the average value per barrel for all onshore federal royalty oil was $14.71 per barrel. 
One possible explanation for these higher values is that small refiners may be taking m 
kind crude oil that is, on average, lighter and sweeter than is all onshore federal crude oil. 
While these data are clearly difficult to interpret without further information and analysis, 
they contrast with MMS’ concerns in the recently published August 1997 RIK study” that 
an onshore oil RIK program may have limited potential as a net revenue raiser. A much 
more serious tmalysis of existing data is clearly needed before it is appropriate to draw 
conclusions. 


Royalty Value of Oil Taken In-Kiod, 1986- 1996 


Figure 1 


.2 

1 



1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 


■ Federal Onshore Royalty Value EFederal OlSdrore Royalty Value 


Source: Mineral Revenues 199S and preliminaiy 1996 data from MMS 


^ “1997 Royalty in Kind Feasibility Study,” Minerals Management Service Office of Policy and 
Management Improvement, August 1997. 


6 



231 


Does the program create value for the Federal Government ? Additional value can be 
created in a variety of ways. Examples include allowing greater volumes to be 
aggregated, capturing a share of the value added by moving production downstream, and 
capturing benefits fi'om increased competition. While score-keepers may not always be 
able to measure the impact of each specific reason for value creation, the following factors 
play a role: 

♦ Greater aggregation of volumes can command a higher price in the marketplace. If 
RIK legislation results in MMS’ marketCTs taking larger volumes in kind than are 
currently being aggregated by lessees, increased federal revenues should be expected. 

♦ Moving production downstream adds value by reaching additional markets away fi'om 
the lease. An RJDK program provides MMS with an opportunity to capture additional 
downstream revenues. Where practical, score-keepers will typically look at the 
experience of other govraronents, sutJi as under the Alberta and Texas programs, in 
their assessment of the net impact on government revenues. In addition, experienced 
marketers are demonstrably able to capture the upper end of the value range through 
their trading aaivities. If through an RIK program MMS is able to take advantage of 
this expertise as production moves dotvnstream, there is a significant opportunity to 
increase federal revenues. 

♦ Increased competition can, by itself, create additional value. In 1995, the Federal 
Government could have taken in kind approximately SO million additional barrels and 
about 1 trillion cubic feet of gas. Potentially all that production could have been made 
available as RIK for purchase in an open and competitive market As more potential 
purchasers have an opportunity to bid for production, the value of that production 
would generally be expected to increase to the benefit of the Federal Government. 
Such an increase should be considered by score-keepers. 

How are pipeline transportation costs to be determined ? Current law on oil pipeline tariffs 
is in a state of fiux that, absent le^slation, is unlikely to be resolved for years. Various 
regulatory efforts have been underway, and there is certain to be additional litigation over 
the issue. Industry had until recently utilized FERC tarifis in the OCS. MMS’ recent 
actions and decisions have challenged this treatmem. As a result, all I can say at this point 
is that the revenue impact of this issue is far fi’om clear, and we will not know firr certain 
whether there will be a significaitt revenue impact until CBO is required to make a 
determinatiwi. Until we reach that point, the Committee should first carefully consider its 
policy Directives, and then work with CBO to see how they vrill score the issue. An RIK 
program could resolve this debate. Thus, it is premature to conclude that charging 
marketers market rates for pipeline transportation will result in a revenue loss as is 
suggested in MMS’ 1997 RIK feasibility study. 


7 



232 


Other related issues 

Are the Nation’s royalty revenues at risk? This question arose during the Subcommittee’s 
Juiy 31, 1997 hearing, which, in turn, raises two issues; (a) will federal revenues fall under 
an RK program, and (b) how will the market for crude oil and natural gas be affected by 
the government controlling a very large volume of production. 

These issues arise, in part, as a result of MMS’ pilot lUK prt^ram studies. Attachment 2 
is an August 4, 1997 Barents Group review of MMS September 1996 report entitled 
“Minerals Management Service Royalty Gas Marketing Pilot Report.” This review 
addresses the revenue neutrality methodology and conclusions of MMS’ 1995 pilot RIK 
project. Since our report was completed, MMS released on September 2 a new study of 
the same project “1997 Royalty in Kind Feasibility Study,” which addresses some of our 
concerns, but not others. Thus, our attached review serves as a preliminary indication of 
some of the issues raised by this most recent MMS analysis. 

The Committee can design a program that is revenue neutral, like any other measure, but 
careful attention must be paid to the details. Because I have no doubt that the Committee 
is well aware of the need for revenue neutrality in its deliberations, I believe the question is 
implicitly addressed to the accuracy of any revenue estimates that are provided by the 
Congressional Budget Office and by the Administration. That is, how well do the score- 
keepers do their jobs? This same issue, of course, arises with any proposed legislation that 
must be scored. It might be useful here to briefly explain the estimating process and 
factors taken into account. 

Revenue estimates are designed to measure the difference between a projection of cash 
collections under current law and under the proposed policy option. In general, the 
greatest potential for error in estimating federal budget impacts of oil- and gas-related 
legislation is the result of price forecasting errors. I have been a user of oil and gas price 
projections for federal score-keeping estimates since the late 1970s. While there have 
been periods of relative stability and reasonable forecasting accuracy, there have also been 
times of great price volatility, which can lead to errors in budget estimates that are based 
on these projections. Fortunately, in most cases, price-related errors in the baseline 
forecast and in the policy being estimated are the same. As a result, errors in revenue 
estimates for policy options tend to be either modest or to completely cancel out when 
compared with projections of current collections. Budget estimates for RIK legislation fell 
into this category where price-related uncertainty will largely apply equally to both the 
budget baseline and to the proposed legislation. Certainly other estimating issues will 
arise, including the proper interpretation of current law. The revenue estimating process 
is, however, a good one where CBO collects as much information as it can from both 
MMS and industry and then, after a careful internal review process, develops an objective 
assessment. If the Congress were to always wait until pending legal controversies and 
uncertainties were to be resolved, it would rarely be possible to act on legislation. As a 
result, I don’t think we really have much of a problem here. 


8 



233 


In response to the second issue, no one has ever suggested that the government get 
involved in marketing. Rather the issue is whether the government should hire a private 
sector marketer to give it the opportunity to maximize its revenues for which the marketer 
would be paid a fee. This would provide the government vrith the opportunity to 
participate in the downstream market - a different market from the one that exists at the 
lease. As a result of the goverament’s implementation of an RK program, there should be 
administrative savings, greater efficiency, and a reduction in controversy. Apart from any 
potential increase in domestic exploration and production activity on federal lands 
triggered by these benefits, the volume of domestic production will not change. On net, 
all parties should benefit from a more competitive market. 

How CM we address properties that may be uneconomic under an RIK program? One 
issue that may arise with a mandatory RIK program is that due to wells with small 
volumes or wells in remote locations, it may not always be cost effective for the 
government to take production in kind. A mechanism adopted under the Royalty Oil and 
Gas Simplification and Fairness Act of 1996 allows MMS and the states to axxept royalty 
prepayments to reduce administrative costs for MMS, the states, and the lessee, and to 
encourage continued production from marginal properties. Regulations should be 
proposed implementing this provision and consideration should be given to expanding it to 
include the very marginal or remote properties. 

While the Act contemplates monitoring and adjusting the prepaid amount to reflect 
changes in reserves, my view is that to firrther reduce administrative burdens it is 
appropriate to give strong consideration to selling outright the royalty stream for these 
properties. This will allow the efficient monetization of the Nation’s royalty stream by 
completely eliminating the administrative burden for states, the Federal Government, and 
lessees. The Federal Goverrunent and the states will be concerned that they will receive 
less than fair value for the payment stream, while purchasers may be concerned that they 
are overpaying, given the potential for mismeasurment of reserves and price uncertainties. 
If carefully implemented, an expanded and simplified prepayment provision should result 
in a competitive, market-based, and fair price. The private sector has significant 
experience with this approach and indeed, operators often pay premiums or bonuses to 
provide the lessor with a portion of the administrative cost savings The score-keeping 
implications of an acceleration or expansion of the prepayment approach when compared 
with current law are unambiguous — more revenue vdll be collected within the budget 
score-keeping period. 

The Committee should focus on the net revenue impact of a comprehensive program . It is 
important to recognize that legislative policy changes have numerous details that require 
discrete analysis. As a rrault, it is likely that such proposed changes contain both revenue 
raisers and revenue losers. Simply noting that one feature or provision results in a revenue 
loss is not by itself a problem. A budgetary problem occurs only if aggregate losses 
exceed aggregate gains. This is, of course, a part of the legislative process with all 
measures and would be no different here. The objective is to design an overall, 
comprehensive program that meets all of the objectives outlined above. 


9 



234 


Administrative cost savings will benefit both the U S and the states . In general, one-half 
the reduction in onshore oil and gas program costs under an RDC program will be shared 
directly with the states. Thus, states benefit most fiom an RIK program that minimizes 
costs by being applied uniformly to all production. An RIK program that applies only to 
some kinds of production or in some locations will reduce costs to a much lesser extent 
because MMS will still be required to maintain audit and valuation staff If MMS should 
only implement an RDC program in the OCS, the states would generally not benefit from 
cost reductions. 

Some benefits that cannot scored will also be significant While my testimony focuses on 
score-keeping effects, there are other economic benefits that are significant even though 
they may not score. For example, reduced administrative costs will directly benefit the 
states through higher distributions. A reduction in private sector compliance costs allows 
the economy to operate with a generally lower and more efficient cost structure. With 
domestic oil and gas production on federal lands becoming less costly, more federal areas 
may be developed, which could increase domestic production. The Department of 
Energy’s most recent statistics for July 1997 show domestic production averaging 6 3 
million barrels per day, while net imports of crude oil averaged 7.9 million barrels per day, 
thus any increase in domestic production is important. 

Conclusion 

In conclusion, a well-designed, mandatory RDC program has significant potential to 
increase economic efficiency, maintain federal and state revenues, reduce controversy, and 
be regarded as a fairer approach for the federal and state governments, lessees, and the 
Nation’s taxpayers Administrative cost savings from such a program will benefit both the 
federal and state governments It is possible for the Committee to design an RIK program 
that applies to all production on federal lands - onshore and offshore, for oil and for gas - 
that is, in the aggregate, at least revenue neutral This can be accomplished through 
careful and thoughtful legislative design within the requirements of the formal budget 
score-keeping process. 


10 



235 


ATTACHMENT 1 


AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF PROFESSIONAL LANDMEN 

The American Association of Professional LamMten (AAPL) is a vohmuay 
professional association of approximately 7,200 land professionals working in the oil, gas 
and mining-related industries. AAPL membership is comprised of landmen working as sole 
practitioner independents and employees of small, medium, and Iwge independent companies 
as well as major oil, gas and mining companies. Members of AAPL reside throughout all of 
the energy producing States. 


AMERICAN PETROLEUM INSTITUTE 

API IS a non-profit, nationwide trade association whose members include over 300 
companies involved in all aspects of the petroleum industry: exploration, production, refining, 
marketing and transportation. Many of API's members operate on federal offshore and 
onshore lands and their activities account for the vast majority of oil and gas production and 
royalties paid every year. 


COLORADO OIL AND GAS ASSOCIATION 

Stale division of Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Association. 


DOMESTIC PETROLEUM COUNCIL 

The Domestic Petroleum Council is a national trade association representing the 
nation's largest independent oil and gas producers. Collectively, its seventeen member 
companies produce a significant portion of the oil and gas produced throughout the U.S. 
from federal lands 


INDEPENDENT PETROLEUM ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA 

The Independent Petroleum Associaticm of America (IPAA) is a national trade 
association representing over 5, 000 independents exploring for and producing oil and natural 
gas in all thirty-three producing states Independents differ from other segments of die 
industry as their sole profit source is from sale of oil and natural gas at the wellhead 
Independents are very active on Federal lands and account for the nearly 65% of the natural 
gas and over 40% of the crude oil in the lower forty-eight. 


I 



236 


INDEPENDENT PETROLEUM ASSOCIATION OF MOUNTAIN STATES 

The Independent Petroleum Associatitm of Mountain States (IPAMS) is a non- 
partisan, non-profit trade association representing the interests of over 750 independent oil 
and natural gas producers, royalty owners, consultants, and service/supply companies 
operating in a ten-state Rocky Mountain area: New Mexico, Wyoming, Colorado, Utah, 
Montana, North Dakota, South Dakota, Nevada, Nebraska and Arizona. Independent 
producers are producers whose main source of revenue is ai the wellhead and who do not 
have downstream refining and marketing. 


INDEPENDENT PETROLEUM ASSOCIATION OF NEW MEXICO 

The Independent Petroleum Association of New Mexico (IPANM), founded in 1978, is 
a nonprofit trade association. IPANM represents the interests of over 600 indeperulent oil 
and natural gas producers, royalty owners, and other entities. Members of IPANM 
principally reside in New Mexico which ranks first in the Nation in terms of oil and gas 
revenues generated from onshore Federal lands. 


MID-CONTINENT OIL AND GAS ASSOCIATION 

Mid-Continent Oil & Gas Association, founded in October 1917, is a national trade 
association representing major and independeni oil and gas companies. The Mid-Continent 
Oil & Gas Association has four divisions: Texas, Louisiana, Oklahoma, and Mississippi- 
Alabama. The Association's purpose is ". . . the promotion and protection of the oil and gas 
Industry." The scope of the Association's re^nsibility is both National/Regional and 
State/Local. 


MONTANA PETROLEUM ASSOCIATION 

State division of Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Association. 


NATIONAL OCEAN INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION 

The National Ocean Industries Association (NOIA) is the sole trade group 
representing the entire spectrum of companies and individuals involved in the exploration and 
development of domestic offshore natural gas and petroleum resources. Included in this 
broad-based association membership of over 280 companies are Outer Continental Shelf 
Operators, both majors and indeperuJents, offshore supply and service industries and drilling 
and diving contractors. 


2 



237 


NATURAL GAS SUPPLY ASSOCIATION 

The Natural Gas Supply Associaticm (NCSA) is a trade association whose 
membership is comprised of both major and independent producers of natural gas. NGSA 
member companies produce and market approximately 90% of Ms country's natural gas 
production. 


NEW MEXICO OIL AND GAS ASSOCIATION 

The New Mexico Oil and Gas Association (NMOGA) represents 300 companies in the 
State of New Mexico ranging from the very large to the very small Members such as Exxon 
to members of two-man offices NMOGA has been in business since 192 7. 


NORTH DAKOTA PETROLEUM COUNCIL 

State division of Rocly Mountain Oil and Gas Association. 


NORTH TEXAS OIL AND GAS ASSOCIATION 


OKLAHOMA INDEPENDENT PETROLEUM ASSOCIATION 

The Oklahoma Independent Petroleum Association (OIPA) is a non-profit association 
representing more than 1,400 independent crude oil and natural gas producers, operators 
and cffiliated companies. The OIPA's primary focus is advocacy for the Oklahoma 
independent oil and gas industry in local, state and federal legislative/regulatory venues. 


PETROLEUM ASSOCIATION OF WYOMING 

State division of Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Association 


ROCKY MOUNTAIN OIL AND GAS ASSOCIATION 

Rocly Mountain Oil and Gas Association (RMOGA) is a trade association with 
hundreds of members, large and small, who account for over 90% of the oil and gas 
exploration, development and tran^mrtation activities in the Rocky Mountain West. 


3 



238 


ROCKY MOUNTAIN OIL AND GAS ASSOCIATION - COLORADO 
Stale division of Rocfy Mountain Oil and Gas Association. 


TEXAS INDEPENDENT PRODUCERS AND ROYALTY OWNERS ASSOCIATION 

Texas Inckpendent Producers and Royalty Owners Associaiim (UPRO), founded in 
1946, is the largest statewide tracM association in the oil and gas industry. It represents targe 
independents, small independents md royalty owners. 


UTAH PETROLEUM ASSOCIATION 

State division of Rociy Mountain Oil ami Gas Association. 


W'OMING INDEPENDENT PRODUCERS ASSOCIATION 


Wyoming Independent Producers A.ssociation (WtPAJ is a nonprofit nonpartisan 
asmtiation representing the interest of independent oil and gas producers and service 
companies that operate in the State of Wyoming. Founded in April of 1990. 



239 


ATTACHMENT 2 


PRELIMINARY ANALYSIS OF FEDERAL REVENUE EFFECTS 
OF MMS’ ROYALTY GAS MARKETING PILOT PROJECT 

August 4, 1997 


Introduction 

Barents Group LLC, a KPMG Company, was asked by Gardere & Wynne, LLP on behalf 
of a group of companies having significant crude oil and natural gas production on Federal 
lands to review a September 1 996 report entitled “Minerals Management Service Royalty 
Gas Marketing Pilot Report.” In conducting our study, we were asked to review the 
report’s findings concerning the project’s implications for the Federal budget. The report 
describes a pilot project conducted during 1995 where the Minerals Management Service 
(MMS) took the Federal royalty share of certain Gulf of Mexico gas leases in-kind rather 
than in-value. 

In analyzing project results, MMS found that while the project was an operational success, 
it resulted in a net Federal revenue loss of $4 7 million MMS extrapolated this result into 
an $82 million loss if the pilot project had been extended to take in kind the entire Federal 
share of Gulf of Mexico gas production. MMS identified certain project features that 
contributed to the estimated loss but concluded that even if these were changed, a net loss 
would still occur. 

Our analysis of MMS’ report has three major findings. 

♦ MMS’ study does not follow Federal budget score-keeping procedures . Budget 
score-keeping requires a careful year-by-year analysis to formulate revenue estimates 
over 5- and 10-year time budget score-keeping horizons.^ MMS’ study is 
characteristic of an “economic impact study” rather than a formal revenue estimate. 
An economic impact study typically measures long-run economic impacts - sometimes 
without regard to the year in which the effects actually occur. This is a crucial 
distinction that leads MMS to find a significant revenue loss, where we would expect 
to find a much smaller loss or even a net revenue gain if properly scored. 

♦ MMS does not adjust its economic impact estimates to assure that the shortfall it finds 
in lease revenues result from transactions that are actually comparable MMS’ study 
provides no assurance that its economic impact estimate actually reflects the difiference 
between lease revenues where royalty is taken in kind and where is it taken in value. 
Rather, many other unquantified factors could contribute to this gap. For example. 


* In general, the House of Representatives uses a 5-year budget score-keeping period, while the Senate 
uses a 10-year period. 

Barents Group LLC I August 4, 1997 

L: 'PROJ^K^tNALTSTDOC 




240 


MMS should adjust for (a) lower bids that resulted from the accelerated payment 
schedule required of marketers under the RIK program, (b) costs imposed on 
marketers of complying with certain record-keeping and reporting requirements for 
which the marketers expected to be compensated, but that would not be needed in a 
permanent program, and (c) the marketers’ assumption of risk associated with the 
requirement to take all volumes of royalty gas made available by the operator despite 
fluctuations in the production level. 

♦ Numerous other project design, data accuracy and validity, and methodological issues 
contribute to MMS’ arriving at an inaPDropriate assessment of the revenue effect of 
the pilot program . The combined effect of conceptual problems, errors, and poor data 
likely leads MMS to significantly overstate the negative economic impact of the pilot 
program. 

In this report, we identify areas requiring further investigation and correction, where such 
corrections are possible. Where corrections are not possible or practical, these factors 
may assist in the design of a future RIK program that is structured to allow the Federal 
revenue impact to be properly measured 


Project Design 

Several program features were identified by MMS as contributing to negative revenue 
effects. Among the frictors that MMS identifies as contributing to a revenue shortfall are; 
(a) inadequate time was allowed for MMS to develop the program and for marketers to 
prepare bids, (b) additional information is required in the bidding documents, and (c) a 
future program should be initiated before the winter season.^ MMS did not attempt to 
estimate the revenue consequences of these factors. 

Potential for self-selection bias. MMS’ pilot program is based upon 79 leases 
volunteered by 14 volunteer lessees. Those lessee’s believing they have the most to gain 
from an expanded RDC program will have a natural tendency to volunteer for such a 
program, while lessees believing they will more likely be worse off will tend not to 
volunteer. As a result, revenue losses tvill more likely occur in a voluntary program than 
in a mandatory program. Only a mandatory program with a statistically valid sample of 
leases and lessees should be used for a revenue analysis. 

Program duration may have been too short to fairly evaluate the revenue effect of the 
pilot project. The pilot project lasted for one year - from January through December 
1995. As documented in the report, a number of marketers dropped out early because 
they had different expectations regarding the program’s operation and the availability of 
transportation. As a result, initial start-up costs may have significantly influenced the 
bidding. In addition, marketers may not have had sufficient time to understand the 

‘ Testimony of Cynthia L. Quarteiman, Director, Minerals Management Service, U S. Department of the 
Interior before the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources, Resources Committee, June 27, 1996. 

Barents Group LLC 7 August 4, 1997 

Lt'eRONlllCPINALTSTDOC 





241 


characteristics of the lease and the required transportation arrangements, and could 
warrant deliveries of a lesser portion of the volumes of gas in contractual relationships. 
The existence of these problems likely reduced bids and Federal revenues. A program of 
this duration was, however, useful for determining the existence of and solutions to many 
operational problems. 

Period during which pilot was conducted was one of volatile prices and changing 
market conditions. As shown in Figure 1, U.S. Department of Energy data show much 
lower natural gas wellhead prices in 1995 than in 1994. On average, wellhead prices were 
15 percent lower in 1995 than in 1994, ranging from 24 percent lower in March 1995 to 2 
percent lower in December. Institutional relationships may also have continued to change 
during this period as a result of FERC Order 636.’ The implementation of a pilot project 
during this period with buyers being required to establish new marketing relationships very 
likely affected bid prices and Federal revenues. 


Figure 1 

COMPARISON OF 1994 AND 1995 NATURAL GAS WELLHEAD PRICES 
Reported by the U.S. Department of Energy 



Marketers expected to recover through lower bids the cost of post-production value 
added costs and services that were unique to the pilot program. Marketers undertook 
pilot program responsibilities for which they expected compensation through bid prices, 
while lessees are required to undertake similar responsibilities without compensation. 

’ FERC deregulated the natural gas pipeline industiy with the issuance of Order 636 in 1992. 

Barents Group LLC 3 August 4, 1997 

U PRQJWK^INALTSTJXX 


242 


Because these costs would be unnecessary under an ongoing RK program, the lower bids 
received in the pilot program should not be charged against the revenues that would be 
received under an ongoing program. While we have not attempted to list all possible 
value added by marketers for which they expected compensation, these include preparing 
Form MMS-2014 and providing volumetric and valuation data for the purpose of 
measuring the revenue effects of the pilot project While providing data for use on the 
analysis of a pilot project is desirable, there is no reason for these costs to be experienced 
in a permanent program. 

Purchasers were required to accept 100 percent of the royalty gas made available 
despite the fluctuation in production levels and to arrange for all transportation. While 
comparable transportation costs are generally deductible by lessees paying royalties in 
value, the economic cost of bearing the risk for taking all volumes and arranging for 
transportation are generally not deductible. Because marketers can and will build these 
additional costs into their bids, this difference will contribute to MMS’ estimated revenue 
loss. The revenue effects of these features could be mitigated through design changes in 
future programs - particularly if MMS is willing to accept some risk in exchange for 
higher revenues. 

First-time pitot program costs may have influenced bids and lowered Federal revenues. 
MMS cites one marketer’s estimate “that fees of $0.01 to $0.03 per MMBtu could be 
expected.” MMS also refers to the Texas RDC program where the State pays $0.03 per 
MMBtu for contract administration expenses. This impUes costs ranging between about 
0.7 percent to 2 percent of revenues.* While numerous adjustments would likely be 
needed to develop a more accurate comparison, the experience of Alberta with their oil 
RK program is that marketing costs equal about 0.2 percent of revenues.’ This indicates 
that with more experience a carefully designed and folly operational program may result in 
marketers bidding significantly lower margins, an increase in Federal collections, and a 
significant reduction in MMS’ estimated revenue loss. 

An accelerated schedule may have resulted in marketers rather than MMS benefiting 
from the gain on natural gas liquids A “partially avoidable factor” cited by MMS as 
contributing to the revenue loss was that suffident Btu information was not made 
available to marketers so that they could take into account the enhanced value of natural 
gas liquids. As a result, they may have bid lower values than warranted. This will 
artificially increase the estimated revenue loss. By using Btu content data now available, 
MMS should be able to adjust the results of the study to reflect the opportunity to realize 
additional Federal revenues from NGL sales. 


* Because margins were not separately stated in bids, MMS reports only the range provided by one 
potential bidder. Using information in the report and national aggregate relationships rqrorted by the 
Department of Energy, we adjust for the relationship between heat content and volumes to estimate the 
0.7-percent to 2-percent range in margins as a percentage of total revenues. 

’ This figure is based upon Alberta’s experience over the Jurte 19 % through May 1997 period. 

Barents Group LLC * August 4, 1997 

LmomrrriKiLrsrjioc 



243 


MMS and the Office of Inspector General identify numerous other “lessons learned, ” 
many of which would result in increased net Federal revenues under an improved RIK 
program. Potential improvements the Office of Inspector General identifies include the 
following;'” 

♦ “Future pilots should encompass a (broader range) of producing companies, lease 
types, and lease ownership situations;” 

♦ “The MMS should offer bid packages with larger volumes of gas and warrant 
volumes;” 

♦ “The MMS should package lease groups along logical transportation routes;” 

♦ “The MMS should attempt to negotiate reasonable transportation fees for non- 
jurisdictional pipelines;” 

♦ “The MMS should include more information in the IFB [Invitation for Bids] and spend 
more time validating it; and;” 

♦ “The MMS should explore the concept of taking royalty gas in kind and using it in 
federal facilities.” 

While there is not uniform agreement on the OIG’s findings, they are appropriate for 
additional consideration. The OIG’s comments on larger produaion volumes are 
especially important. It is well recognized that the relatively small volumes spread over a 
wide geographic area resulted in little opportunity to enhance revenues through the 
aggregation of volumes. Implementation of the OIG’s findings could increase Federal 
revenues under a restructured RIK program. 


Accuracy and Validity of Data 

The accuracy of MMS’ analysis was impaired by the lack of accurate data. Citing a 
number of data deficiencies, MMS employed several methods for assessing the accuracy 
of its estimating methodology. In each instance, MMS appropriately identified its 
concerns, but the lack of accurate data is unfortunate and calls into question the validity of 
MMS’ conclusions. Following are examples cited by MMS: 

♦ “We eliminated the top and bottom 2 percent of the leases based on our calculated 
MMBtu values assuming that the data was unreliable.”" 


Pages 24-25. All page numbers refer to “Minerals Management Service Royalty Gas Marketing Pilot 
Report,” September 1996. 

" Page 5. 


August 4, 1997 

LypROfMT^ItULTSTJXX 


Barents Group LLC 


5 



244 


♦ “This method was not selected to be the primary method because 1) it relies on a very 
small number of leases to make a projection, 2) errors to reported data (such as Btu 
content information) could result in skewed results . 

♦ “The Auditors identified significant errors in the data contained in many reports, 
concluding that the reports were inconsistent and unreliable for both royalty valuation 
and pilot revenue impact analysis purposes.”'^ 

MMS appropriately qualifies its analysis by noting data limitations, yet it is impossible 
to tell from the report whether the conclusions drawn can be supported. MMS is to be 
commended for testing alternative analytical approaches Indeed, MMS draws comfort 
from finding that all the methods it tested indicated a revenue loss would occur. Because 
much of the data collected are suspect, however, the reader has no way to determine 
whether MMS’ findings are valid. 


Methodological Problems 

MMS* estimating methodology is not robust. MMS tested its estimating methodology 
using several procedures. Each procedure produced generally similar losses ranging from 
$4 miUion to $5. 1 million for the pilot project. MMS’ best estimate was $4.7 million. 

MMS’ preferred method is to compare the revenue received per MMBtu from the pilot 
leases in 1995 with the revenue received fi'om the same leases in 1994. The 1994 revenue 
per MMBtu is adjusted to reflect the percentage change in prices on similar leases not 
included in the pilot program. This approach raises numerous questions concerning the 
true comparability of the leases chosen. Indeed using the January 1995 example reported 
in the study, MMS shows revenue per MMBtu declining by 22.6 percent from January 
1994 to January 1995,“ while as previously illustrated in Figure 1 national average 
wellhead prices reported by the Department of Energy dropped by 16.1 percent. This 
difference may be completely explainable, but the lack of documentation is troubling. 

The methodology we would find most compelling would be one that carefully identifies 
transactions from leases where royalties are paid in value during the same time period and 
from approximately the same location and that are in most respects comparable to the RIK 
leases. Adjustments are required for all factors influencing price, such as the reliance on 
non-Jurisdictional pipelines, the distance fi'om marketing centers, differences in available 
volumes, and differences in payment terms. MMS did not undertake such an analysis. 
Comparable leases could include those fiom which the royalty was actually taken in kind. 
Here, an assessment of the value per MMBtu received by the operator could be compared 
with the value per MMBtu received by the marketer to determine whether the prices 
differed and then to study those factors that contributed to this difference. MMS 

'^Page 8. 

’’Page 8. 

“Page 6. 

Barents Group LLC 6 August 4, 1997 

L 'PRQJMi:\FlNALTSTDOC 



245 


attempted to mtike this comparison, but could not perform a complete analysis due to data 
deficiencies. MMS’ says its partial analysis of these data indicate a revenue loss; however, 
given the data limitations, this finding has uncertain validity. 

MMS inappropriately adjusted its baseline revenues to reflect a 3 percent increase 
from future audits. MMS increased its estimate of revenue collected under the existing 
royalty in value program by 3 percent to account for future audit and enforcement 
collections that would be unnecessary under an RDC program Regardless of the accuracy 
of the 3-percent estimate, this figure includes adjustments for both volumes and prices. 
Because the pilot RDC program is equally subject to volume-related audit adjustments, 
only that portion of the historical audit relationship should be assumed. We do not know 
the relative mix of price- and volume-related audit adjustments and thus do not know the 
significance of our proposed adjustment It important to recognize, however, that MMS’ 
3-percent adjustment by itself accounts for almost half of the estimated revenue shortfall 
($2.2 million of the $4.7 million total). This adjustment is particularly troubling in that a 
surge in audit collections during FY 1994, by itself, causes the 10-year average MMS uses 
to establish its adjustment to increase by 0.5 percent. Indeed, FY 1995 audit collections 
which are not included in the audit rate calculation dropped by 19.5 percent and more 
recently available data for FY 1996 show audit collections dropped by an additional 81.6 
percent. As shown in Figure 2, MMS reports that audit collections equaled only $40 
million (1.0 percent of revenues) in FY 1996, in contrast to the $268 million collected 
during FY 1994. 


MMS’ figure is based upon adjustments for oil, gas, and other minerals from oC^hore, onshore, and 
Indian leases. 


August 4, 1997 

L \PltQflRIX\flMLTSTJXX 


Barents Group LLC 


7 



246 



MMS extrapolates its estimated revenue loss to a Gulf of Mexico total without any 
documentation on its methodology. MMS concludes that the REK pilot project, if it were 
to be extended to all Gulf of Mexico gas leases would result in an annual revenue loss of 
$82 million. Because no documentation is provided on how this computation was 
performed, we have no way to assess its accuracy. Clearly any computation must assure 
that pilot project results are appropriately weighted when developing Gulf-wide estimates. 
For example, it would be inappropriate to simply scale up the estimated revenue loss on 
the pilot projea by the ratio of either gross revenues or the volume of gas production in 
the Gulf to the revenues or gas volumes in the pilot project. Adjustments would be 
required for differences in the attributes of pilot project leases in comparison with those of 
other Gulf leases. For example, if the pilot leases were to be more heavily skewed to areas 
closer to land than is Gulf of Mexico production in general, or if the sample required 
greater or lesser use of nonjurisdictional pipelines, it would be appropriate to take these 
factors into account when estimating totals. MMS provides no indication of whether or 
how it addressed these issues. 

MMS inappropriately concludes that marketing costs and non-jurisdictional pipeline 
tariffs are unavoidable sources of the revenue loss. Regarding marketing costs, MMS 
says, “We view these marketing fees as barriCTS to revenue neutrality under any similarly- 

Barents Group LLC * August 4, 1997 

L'PRamK\flH4LTST.DOC 


247 


stnictured program since the lessee must bear all costs of marketing without cost to the 
federal lessor when royalties are paid in value.”'* MMS believes that rates charged for 
transportation on non-jurisdictional pipelines “were considerably higher than actual cost 
basis allowed under current regulations.”*’ While the interpretation of the duty to market 
is a legal and contractual issue that we carmot address here, there are numerous program 
design issues that could mitigate, if not eliminate, any properly estimated Federal revenue 
loss. 

MMS does not recognize that additional Federal revenues will be realized through 
increased future lease bonus payments as a result of reduced administrative burdens 
and increased certainty Potential lessors will value the burden reduction that would 
result from the successful implementation of an RIK program. Future lessees will benefit 
from the significant reduction in uncertainty with respect to valuation adjustments. MMS 
recently reported $812 million of high bids for a Gulf of Mexico sale'* indicating that 
relatively small increases in bid prices can have large Federal revenue consequences. Any 
resulting increase in lease bonus payments would immediately increase Federal revenues 
within the budget score-keeping period 

MMS does not follow Congressional Budget Act score-keeping requirements. 
Congressional score-keeping rules require an analysis of the budgetary impact of a policy 
change for each fiscal year expressed in the dollars of that year While it is not possible to 
estimate the revenue effect of any proposed policy change without detailed conceptual or 
statutory language, one major factor MMS has not recognized in its analysis is the 
acceleration of revenues that would resu't from valuation-related audits no longer being 
required. 

Under the existing program, the collection of audit revenues is deferred for many years 
due to lags between the time of production and when audits commence, and the time from 
when any deficiency is asserted to when the Government actually receives payment. While 
the Government may be kept whole on a time-value-of-money basis through the collection 
of interest on underpayments, this analysis is not correct for congressional score-keeping 
purposes. 

If the Federal Government receives all its revenues under an RIK program in the month 
following the month of production rather than 6 or more years after the fact, the gross 
revenue from these audit collections will be brought into the 5- and 10-year budget score- 
keeping periods Assuming MMS’ 3-percent audit adjustment factor is correct, this will 
result in a substantial acceleration of revenues. 


'*Page 11. 

"Page 11. 

'* “Central Gulf of Mexico Sale 166 Nets $812 Million in High Bids,” MMS New Release, July 18, 1997. 


Barents Group LLC 9 August 4, 1997 

L •fROJ'flWFtNALTSTIKX: 



248 


MMS reports preliminary calendar year 1996 offshore gas royalty collections of $1934.9 
million.'’ For each year of acceleration brought into the budget score-keeping period, the 
Federal Government will receive an additional $58 million. Because a number of years 
worth of audit collections could easily be accelerated under such a program, the budget 
savings will be quite substantial. If there were, for example, an average lag in audit 
collections equal to 5 years and no adjustment is made for any changes in gas prices or 
production volumes, an audit-related revenue gain of $290 million would occur within the 
budget score-keeping period By making the appropriate adjustments to the program and 
the revenue estimating methodology, even more revenue should be scored within the 
budget period. 


Conclusion 

MMS has performed a valuable study that identifies many opportunities for developing a 
well-designed RIK program. While the study provides usefiil guidance on the economic 
effects of such a program, additional documentation, data validation and correction, and 
analysis is required. Once this work has been completed and proper congressional score- 
keeping procedures are observed, we believe that it is likely that a permanent RIK 
program can be implemented, which can be scored as raising net federal revenues. 


” This includes $1,865.7 million of gas royalties and $69.1 million of gas plant royalties. Largely due to 
recent price increases, gas royalties have contined to increase rapidly. Indeed, recent statistics for the first 
quarter of 1997 show Federal ofishore gas royalties increasing by 63 percent over the same period in 1996 
- from $387.9 million to $632.3 million. See “Mineral Revenue Collections, January - March 1997,” 
Minerals Management Service, p. 10. 


August 4, 1997 

Li'fiROJVlK^nULTSTDOC 


Barents Group LLC 


10 



249 


STATEMENT OF TIMOTHY COHELAN, ATTORNEY AT LAW, 
REGARDING STRUCTURE, MECHANICS, AND ECONOMICS 
OF THE CRUDE OIL INDUSTRY IN CALIFORNIA 
RELATIVE TO PROPOSED R-I-K PROGRAM 
BEFORE THE 

SUBCOMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND MINERAL RESOURCES 
COMMITTEE ON RESOURCES 
UNITED STATES HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
SEPTEMBER 18, 1997 


Madam Chairman and Members of the Subcommittee: 

Thank you for inviting me to present testimony concerning the structure, mechanics and 
economics of the oil and gas industry as it relates to the concept of using an R-I-K program 
versus federal royalty “in value.” 

I draw almost entirely from my experience in connection with a pending California state 
court civil action. Aguilar, et al v. ARCO. et al. (San Diego Superior Court) is a certified 
class action in which 22 million California consumers are represented by our office in 
connection with allegations of price fixing which, of course, the industry strongly denies. 
■Among other things, it is our belief that the normal market structure of oligopoly has 
moved from non-collusive to collusive in connection with the implementation of certain 
California regulations for re-formulated gasoline instituted in March, 1996. 

California Crude Oil Markets - A Concentration of Sellers 

California crude oil or San Joaquin Valley crude-Kem crude provides approximately 1 
million barrels of crude oil that is then primarily sold to California's refiners. Over 50% of 
the crude oil used in California is .Alaskan North Slope with the difference largely being 
comprised of California based heavy crude oils. 

The competitive characteristics of the market are rapidly changing. California upstream 
markets have recently begun to concentrate. A pending ShellTMobil merger of crude oil 
fields when matched with the Texaco/Monterey Resources merger, will result in 
approximately 60% of the daily production of California crude being controlled by three 
entities. Texaco currently produces 126,000 barrels of oil a day in California and recently 
announced plans to acquire Monterey Resources which has approximately a 54,000 barrel a 
day production in Kera Fields. Shell and Mobil also recently announced plans to combine 
oil fields in California. In 1995 Shell’s California operations produced 140,000 barrels of 
crude oil daily, second only to Chevron’s 152,700 barrels. Mobil produced 105,000 barrels 
of crude daily in 1995. Approximately 1 million barrels of oil are totally produced in 
California every day. 


1 



250 


This crude oil reaches the refining centers in the Bay area and in Los Angeles largely 
through proprietary pipelines. Heavy crude is heated for transportation or blended with 
light crude while it is placed in a crude oil pipeline. Apparently heavy crudes, however, 
are usually heated to allow for the refinery configurations which allow for refining of 
heavier crude oils. These pipeline systems are owned by three majors. Chevron, Mobil, and 
Texaco which is the biggest. 

This crude oil reaches California’s refineries which utilizing proprietary pipelines owned 
and controlled by majors. Competitive economic considerations may, and often do, come 
into play in connection with the transportation to "market.'' 

Although 25% of federal lands located in California are San Joaquin Valley heavy crude, 
the offshore federal production would also be affected by this increasing market 
concentration. 

California Refinery Mergers and CARS GAS - A Concentration of Crude Buyers 

The consolidation of California's downstream crude oil customers - the refiners - also has 
significant implications for an R-I-K. program. 

The California Energy Commission has stated California’s refining sector trends show cause 
for concern. Fewer refineries are now located in California. CEC labels a "major 
challenge" facing the oil industry over the next decade "the availability of refining capacity 
to make fuel to California’s specifications, especially reformulated gasoline and diesel." 

(See California Fuels Report, California Energy Commission. 1995.) Since 1982 the 
number of operating refineries has decreased from 44 to 24. Today California's CARS 
Phase 2 reformulated gasoline, however, is only made by 12 refineries all presently owned . 
by majors, 

California's motor gasoline markets have become extremely concentrated with recent merger 
activity, both actual and proposed. If a pending Texaco/Shell merger is accomplished, 
almost 80% of California's gasoline will be refined by four separate entities. Chevron, 
ARCO, Shell/Texaco and Tosco/Unocal. 

ToscoAJnocal, after its merger, now operates four California refineries and sells gasoline 
through over 2,000 stations under the names of British Petroleum, Circle K, Unocal and 
Unocal/76. The completion of this recent merger has allowed the consolidation of 
production and pricing decisions throughout California. The additional remaining major 
market players, Mobil, Exxon and Ultramar/Petro-Diamond, provide the market dynamics. 
They can be expected to make production and supply decisions that ensure a predictable 
and stable demand for crude oil. 


2 



251 


Since there will be fewer buyers in the market place for California crude oil due to this 
concentration, there will be increasing pressure on crude oil prices and a substantial 
motivation from this increasingly small group to acquire crude oil, whether from the Alaska 
North Slope, the Persian Gulf, or from the San Joaquin Valley fields, at the lowest possible 
price. Also given the constraints of the crude oil marketing mechanisms, it is unlikely that 
a manageable and practical R-l-K marketing system could be achieved in California. 

My involvement and concern has to do to with the increasing pressure on California retail 
prices which we believe is a direct result of industry concentration and collusive production, 
supply and pricing practices. Industry concentration in California will increasingly allow 
for wider refining margins which will increasingly cost California drivers at the gas pump. 
Following their economic interest in increasing this profitability, this new concentrated 
California refiner buyers’ market will also attempt to depress to the maximum extent 
possible, its actual operating costs including the cost of crude. 

Implications for R-I-K in California Crude Oil Markets 

Natural gas markets use "market centers" to allow for a maximum exposure to numerous 
buyers and numerous sellers to the market place. To the extent that the maximum number 
of market players is interacting, both buyers and sellers in the face of other market forces 
such as demand and product availability, the likelihood is that fair market values are 
assigned. 

The California experience indicates that the industry is in a period of substantial transition. 
Domestic crude oil markets appear to be undergoing concentrations as California evidences. 
This has the affect of placing fewer sellers into a market structure in which the government 
would be seeking to compete. In California, based upon our review, it makes no sense 
whatsoever. 

The downstream consolidation that California and much of the United States is undergoing 
also has substantial implications for any government R-I-K program. Domestic refining 
markets are undergoing “rationalization” and the overall crude throughput capacity more 
closely matches the domestic markets demand. This indicates a decreasing number of 
domestic buyers for crude oil products if the government is in the business of selling. 

In our case it has become clear that there is market power that is being exerted by the 
limited number of California oil companies that refine and market gasoline. Market power, 
of course, is the power to change a market price by adjusting the amount that’s produced. 
This occurs daily in California in connection with CARS gas. 

Substantial barriers to entry exist which also facilitates the collusive nature of the California 
refining industry. Obviously, initiating or starting a refinery in California would be difficult 
or impossible today. Also the numerous small refiners that formerly provided the extra 


3 



252 


margin of competition have gone out of business or have turned to production of asphalt or 
other non-motor gasoline products because of an inability to provide the improvements 
necessary to convert to CARB Phase II gasoline. 

A study of empirical work considering interaction among firms supports intuitive ideas 
about whether tacit or explicit collusion can persist in an industry. The familiarity that 
firms have with each other in terms of production cost plays a critical role. Each refiner in 
California, of course, knows all of the important competitive production prices of its 
competitors. Collusion thrives also where market demand is stable. California motorists 
consume something in the order of 920,000 barrels of gasoline per day with a predictable 
fluctuation between seasons. Each of California’s major gasoline marketers also monitors 
the prices of each of the other firms, including its wholesale prices at the rack/terminal and 
dealer tank wagon level. Ability to monitor output can also be a factor given the 
interaction between trading departments and the availability now of aggregated production 
records by the California Energy Commission which is now made available to each 
refinery. It has always been the case that when fewer firms are in a market, the more it is 
more likely for collusion to occur and California is now moving from nine companies to 
seven with two recent mergers, Unocal/Tosco and Shell/Texaco (merger pending). Seven 
market makers are not enough to prevent collusive pricing and coordinated production 
decisions, given the incestuous nature of supply relationships. The products that all of 
these companies make are now standardized and therefore these rival products are subject 
to common specifications such as those of the California Air Resources Board and the 
Santa Fe Pipeline system. Given this great degree of interchangeability at present, 

California’s oil refiners share among themselves imponani supply relationships, both on a 
term sale, geographic exchange and spot sale basis, that ensure that everyone's production 
capabilities will match their market share. 

These upstream and downstream trends in the California Crude oil markets have critical 
implications for the federal government in connection with its present review of whether an 
R-I-K structure would work anv'where for crude oil. The question, however, for the 
government is whether or not these market risks will yield benefits to the government in 
light of these uncertainties. 

Whether or not crude oil or natural gas is involved, relevant R-I-K. questions are: 

1 . What is the nature of the local market place in which the government will be * 
competing? 

2. What is the logical geographical definition of the downstream market for my 
product? For instance, is it domestic refiners serving a defined and 
predictable geographic area? 


4 



253 


3. What total market concentration trends occur at the upstream or downstream 
levels? Are there fewer sellers in the market in which the government will 
be competing? Are there fewer buyers in the market in which the 
government will compete? 

4. How are prices set? Will there be independent objective bench mark pricing 
or will prices be conducted based upon ambiguous market interactions, such 
as "small spot sales” which guide overall pricing levels? 


5 



254 


COHELAN & KHOURY 

A PARTMEKSHIP OF PROFESSIONAL LAW CORPORATIONS 

ATTORNEYS AT LAW 


TIMOTHY D. COHELAN * APLC 
ISAM C KHOURY. APC 
DIANA M. KHOURY 
J MARK MCNEILL 
MARGARET L COATES 


701 "C" STREET 

SAN DIEGO, CAUFCMINIA 92101-5307 

TELEPHONE (619) 595-JOOl 
FACSIMILE (619) 595-30(X) 
VOICEMAIL (619) 645-8167 


(‘Also admilied in ihe Disirici of Columbia) 

September 15. 1997 


VIA FEDERAL EXPRESS 
The Honorable Barbara Cubin. 

Chairman. Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 
U.S. HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES 
COMMITTEE ON RESOURCES 
1626 Longworth House Office Building 
Washington, D C. 20515 

Dear Chairman Cubin; 

Thank you for the opportunity to address the commission concerning proposed R-I-K 
legislation. 

This office presently represents approximately 22 million California consumers in a 
pending class action in the San Diego Superior Court which alleges that nine major oil 
companies have engaged in price fixing activity in connection with the introduction of the 
CARB Phase II gasoline in California in March. 1996, Trial commences in November of 
this year. It is our belief that California consumers have been substantially overcharged at 
the retail pump, largely because of substantial wholesale price, production and supply 
coordination by the nine major oil companies who are defendants in the case. 

In my statement prepared for presentation to the Committee, we basically emphasize 
the increasing down stream market concentration in California, a major market for gasoline 
and also concurrent upstream San Joaquin Valley crude producer market concentrafions. My 
analysis of the structure, mechaiiics and economics of the crude oil markets in California as 
it relates to the concept of an R-I-K program versus federal royalty taken in value is 




255 


CoheLui/Ofv 

California 
Class Actions 

by 

Timothy D. Cohelan 


WEST GROUP 



256 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 

Timothy D. Cohelan is the founding partner of Cohelan & Khouiy, a 
civil lidgadon firm specializing in class acdons and located in its own building 
in San Diego. Cohelan and the firm have been counsel or co-counsel in dvil 
■matters that have recovered for plaindfh over $225 milhon in verdicts, judg- 
ments, or setdements since September 1993. 

Cohelan & Khouiy have successfully prosecuted class acdons cases on 
behalf of urban homeless endded to emergency shelter, victims of a nadonal 
health insurance firaud scheme; redrees endded to pension benefits; defiauded 
investors; vicdms of discriminadon; and workers endded to back wages. 
Cohelan & Khoury are AV-rated by Mardndale-Hubbell. 

Cohelan served as Chairman of San Diego Regional Coastal Commission 
from 1978 to 1981 and regularly serves as judge pro tern of the municipal court 
and has co-chaired the San Diego Coimty Bar Association Subcommittee on 
the Homeless. He is a 1974 graduate of California Western School of Law, 
where he served as an editor of Law Review. He served as an officer in the U.S. 
Navy from 1968 to 1971 and received a BA. from the University of Arizona 
in 1967. His previous education was received from the public schools of 
Washington, D.C.; Leeds, England; and Berkeley, California. He is married 
with one child and resides in San Diego. 


iii 


[August 1997] 




257 


TESTIMONY BEFORE THE COMMITTEE ON RESOURCES 
SUBCOMMITTEE ON ENERGY AND MINERAL RESOURCES 


Thursday, September 18, 1997 


Washington, D C. 


Royalty-ln-Kind 


Bob Neufeld 

Vice President, Environment and Governmental Relations 
Wyoming Refining Company 



258 


Chairman Cubin and members ot the Subcommittee: 

My name is Bob Neufeld. I am the Vice President of Environment and Govern- 
mental Relations for Wyoming Refining Company. My responsibilities include primary 
management of Wyoming Refining Company’s current dispute with the United States 
Department of Interior's Minerals Management Sen/ice. Wyoming Refining Company 
understands the Subcommittee is studying whether and how to alleviate the disruption, 
uncertainty and inequities caused by after-the-fact changes to federal oil values. 

We also understand the Subcommittee is considering a royalty-in-kind program in 
which the United States would take their oil royalty in-kind and market it to realize income 
from federal leases. This would break the dependence on historical reconstruction and on 
non-market and wastefully expensive adjudication for setting royalty values. Rather, it will 
require the federal government to use its own arm's length transactions, the primary 
standard for setting value under today's system, as the irrefutable and final measure of 
federal oil values. An RIK oil program, correctly run, will be a significant improvement over 
the present policy of second guessing. 

My testimony today is intended to shed light on how ngt to run a royalty-in-kind 
(RIK) program. The federal government has been running a small scale RIK since 1 946. 
My testimony will describe Wyoming Refining Company, its historical involvement in the 
RIK program, how Wyoming Refining Company has been brought to the brink of bank- 
ruptcy through MMS’ interpretation of current rules and our support for a solution to this 
burgeoning quandary. 

Wyoming Refining Company is a small refiner whose only significant asset is a 
12,500 barrel per day refinery located In Newcastle, Wyoming. We are the largest private 
employer in Weston County and are one of four refineries still operating in Wyoming. In 
1 980, there were 1 4 operating refineries in the state, Wyoming Refining Company is not 
vertically integrated. We own neither oil wells nor downstream retail operations. We 
purchase crude from various suppliers which until this year included the federal govern- 
ment, and we sell refined products to wholesale purchasers. Our profit comes from the 
margin between the cost of crude oil and the sales price of our products. 

Wyoming Refining Company's largest customer is Ellsworth Air Force Base in 
Rapid City, South Dakota. Since the 1960's, we have supplied approximately 90% of Ells- 
worth’s jet fuel requirements. In addition, we produce about 50% of the motor fuel supply 
for the Black Hills region of eastern Wyoming and western South Dakota. Wyoming 
Refining Company is an important economic asset for a relatively isolated region. The 
company’s demise would mean both the loss of jobs and higher fuel prices in an area 
short on refining capacity and would have implications for our national defense as well. 

The small refiner RIK program has been an important source of crude oil for 
Wyoming Refining Company for almost twenty years. In fact, during the last ten years 
ending in 1 997, when we were forced out of the program by MMS, crude oil purchases 


Before the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 


Bob Neufeld 

Wyoming Refining Company 


COrCCLXOOC 


September 18, 1997 
Page 1 of 6 



259 


from the small refiner RIK program amounted to more than 40% of our total crude 
consumption. 

The program was authorized by Congress in 1946 as an amendment to the Minerai 
Leasing Act of 1920. Its goals, to encourage oil company competition and to enhance the 
availability and stability of American defense fuel supplies, were promoted by selling some 
federal crude to small refiners thereby denying large vertically integrated oil companies 
exclusive access to federal oil. When the Secretary of the Interior determines that ade- 
quate supplies of crude oil are not available to small refiners at reasonable prices, MMS 
elects to take the federal oil royalty from some leases in kind rather than in cash and sells 
it to qualifying small refiners. In almost all cases. RIK oil we purchased was produced by 
large vertically integrated oil companies and would not have been available to us without 
the small refiner program. In these cases, the United States realizes the same oil revenue 
through sales to small refiners rather than through cash payments from producers. 

Until the current controversy began, MMS has always invoiced Wyoming Refining 
Company based on oil values reported to MMS by the producer. We have always paid the 
invoices in full and on time. On occasion, Wyoming Refining Company has found the oil to 
be priced too high for its purposes, and we have exercised our right to cancel further oil 
deliveries. 

In spile of the fact that the small refiner RIK program has worked successfully and 
as intended for decades, current events lead us to conclude that MMS is destroying the 
program. Our story is important to the Subcommittee because it illustrates the absolute 
absurdity of changing oil values in after-the-fact adjudications. 

On May 23, 1 995, MMS sent Wyoming Refining Company a demand letter ordering 
us to pay an additional $1 ,468,431 for RIK oil delivered from one large oil company’s 
federal leases during the period of May 1, 1987 through September 30, 1992, In addition, 
Wyoming Refining Company was ordered to pay $969,569 in interest charges accruing 
from the date these additional amounts are alleged to have been due. Apparently, the 
states of Montana and North Dakota, under a delegation of authority from MMS and after 
auditing this producer's production and valuation in those two states, determined that the 
producer had undervalued the oil sold to us. As MMS would not claim responsibility for 
overseeing the producer’s valuation, MMS turned to us and imposed a retroactive price 
increase plus interest on oil sold and delivered to Wyoming Refining Company as many as 
eight years earlier ! We immediately canceled any further deliveries as uneconomic. 

In addition, MMS has informed us that other leases produced by two large oil 
companies in another state and from which we also have purchased RIK oil are being 
audited and that we can expect further retroactive increases in these cases approaching 
$4.5 million. Simultaneously, MMS adjusted current deliveries from these leases, and 
Wyoming Refining Company again exercised its option to cancel future deliveries as 
uneconomic. Now, Wyoming Refining Company no longer participates in the small refiner 
program having been chased out by the producers’ alleged valuation errors and MMS’ 


Before the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 


Bob Neufeld 

Wyomir>g Refining Con>pany 


CONOEUaOOC 


September 18. 1997 
Page 2 of 6 



260 


policy of making small refiners pay for those mistakes. The company is now in financial 
jeopardy due to MMS' allegation of their right to retroactively increase prices by more than 
$7 million over the last eight years. Please bear in mind that Wyoming Refining Company 
is not a large enterprise but a small business with stockholders' book equity not much 
larger than these demands. 

Under present rules, in order to appeal any MMS demand letter to the MMS 
Director, any RIK refiner must post a bond or letter of credit equal to the amount de- 
manded. Thus, in Wyoming Refining Company’s case our banks so far have had to 
provide a $2.4 million letter of credit. When the next demand letter arrives, Wyoming 
Refining Company will have had to post letters of credit exceeding $7 million. Unsur- 
prisingly, our banks have already told us that if another MMS demand letter were to Issue, 
we will be taken involuntarily into bankruptcy. 

Although Wyoming Refining Company disagrees with the higher value imputed to 
already purchased oil and, therefore, has not benefitted from the producer's valuation, 
even more disturbing is the government’s callous disregard for commonly accepted and 
necessary business principles. For example, by waiting eight years afte^ delivery, MMS 
has denied Wyoming Refining Company its contractual right to cancel aeliveries of that 
RIK oil. Most irritating is the fact that MMS knew as early as 1989 that the producer’s 
values were suspect but failed to notify us of this knowledge. Instead, MMS continued to 
parrot in our invoices the producer’s reported but suspect values thereby inducing 
continued acceptance rather than cancellation of future deliveries. 

Having seen the damage current policy is inflicting on small refiners and the small 
refiner program, MMS now wants to change that policy. On January 24, 1997 MMS 
proposed changes to 30 CFR part 208 which includes language stating "MMS will 
calculate and provide that [royalty oil] value to the buyer". MMS held a series of hearings 
on its proposed changes. On April 15, 1997, Wyoming Refining Company along with 
several other small refiners attended the hearing in Lakewood, Colorado. I directly asked 
Deborah Gibbs Tschudy, Chief of the MMS’ Royalty Valuation Division, whether the intent 
of this proposed change was to ensure that oil values would not be changed once the 
small refiner had paid the MMS invoice. Ms. Tschudy replied that this understanding of the 
proposed rule was correct and that the adoption of the part 208 changes would mean no 
retroactive price increases. Madam Chairman, we strongly support MMS’ adopting the new 
rules making it difficult to continue a policy that is destroying all RIK small refiners in 
general and Wyoming Refining Company in particular. 

Meanwhile, as MMS has been giving due consideration to its proposed part 208 
changes, Wyoming Refining Company has been forced to spend hundreds of thousands of 
dollars defending the producer’s reported oil values and itself from accusations that it 
benefitted from the producer’s alleged mistakes. If Wyoming Refining Company is correct 
on the law, then our entire ordeal was unnecessary, and no small refiner should have to 
endure such expense of time and money. If MMS is correct on the law, the law needs to 


Before the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 


Bob Neufeld 

Wyoming Refining Company 


CONKLXOOC 


September 18. 1997 
Page 3 of 6 



261 


be changed by the executive branch in the current process or, faiiing that, by the legisla- 
tive branch. 

Our observations gleaned from our two and one-half year ordeal are as follows: 

1 . MMS needs to decide whether it is selling oil or collecting royalties. MMS 
seems to believe that Wyoming Refining Company owes royalties to the United States. 

The word "royalty", however, does not appear in our RIK purchase contract. We never 
signed a lease with the federal government, we never produced any oil and we never 
reported on any oil values for production from federal leases. We simply took delivery of oil 
at the unit sales point and paid the MMS invoices at prices dictated to us bv MMS . The 
lease and the valuation reports were all controlled by the producer who had the royalty 
obligation, and the prices were then repeated to us by MMS in the RIK invoices. MMS 
clearly is attempting both to sell oil to small refiners and to collect royalties from them at 
the same time. We believe it is not possible to do both. Certainty in oil marketing transac- 
tions cannot exist when the federal government itself does not distinguish between a 
fundamental business mission, i.e. - generating income from natural resource develop- 
ment, and a regulatory function, i.e. - the tax-like act of collecting royalties. To improve the 
present situation lor all oil production, the United States must decide whether they are in 
the tax business or the oil and gas business. Ultimately, prices and sales should be final, 
and we hope the Subcommittee can find a way to accomplish this, 

2. MMS' behavior has prevented Wyoming Refining Company from exercising 
its contractual right to cancel deliveries. All parties agree that our RIK contract contains 
the right to cancel deliveries. Because of the timing sequence in the contract, however, the 
small refiner receives the RIK invoice 45 days after the RIK oil delivery and must always 
pay for oil already delivered even if the price is uneconomical. However, once the price of 
delivered oil is known to the small refiner , future deliveries of uneconomical oil can be 
canceled. As noted above, Wyoming Refining Company has exercised the cancellation 
option several times never suspecting that MMS would circumvent this contractual right in 
the future. Nevertheless, by waiting until all oil is delivered before revealing the “true" price, 
MMS has, in fact, done just that. In claiming it can hide the final price of the oil for years 
after delivery, MMS is arguing that the small refiner must accept and pay for all oil no 
matter how uneconomical and that the right to cancel future deliveries is totally illusory. 
MMS has elevated the rather pedestrian practice of bait and switch to the high art of 
deliver and re-price. 

3. MMS could have prevented this crisis and did not. The audit period of our 
case covers RIK oil sold to Wyoming Refining Company between May 1 . 1987 and 
September 30, 1 992. As early as 1989 or perhaps even earlier . MMS suspected that it 
disagreed with its prices in our invoices. MMS did not tell us of this suspicion or give any 
other indication that it had superior knowledge regarding the price of RIK oil delivered to 
us. Rather, MMS continued to deliver RIK oil to Wyoming Refining Company, biliing us at 
prices reported by the producer and thought by MMS to be incorrect. In other words, MMS 


Before the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 


Bob Neufeld 

Wyomir}g Refining Company 


CONOEUOOOC 


September 18. 1997 
Page 4 of 6 



262 


manipulated the small refiner RIK program so that we were unknowingly allowed to 
increase our exposure and risk of bankruptcy. We know this because MMS sent a demand 
letter to the producer regarding leases producing our RIK oil in March of 1990. An informal 
payment request was sent earlier the same year. The producer audit was undoubtedly 
heading for a conclusion of under valuation significantly before that. However, it was not 
until 1994 or 1995, significantly after the audit period, that Wyoming Refining Company 
had any notice of the producer audit or any other indication that the prices in our invoices 
were under review. Innocently, we continued to purchase the disputed oil during the audit 
period and beyond until MMS belatedly told us prices were being changed retroactively. 
Wyoming Refining Company then canceled further deliveries of RIK oil from these leases. 
Our exposure had been unnecessarily and irreversibly increased while MMS stood silently 
by and allowed it to happen. 

4. MMS' interpretation of the regulations allows an under reporter to escape 
while an innocent purchaser's evidence is ignored. In order to defend itself and to 
appeal this case to the MMS Director, Wyoming Refining Company was forced to gather a 
significant amount of evidence regarding the value of its RIK oil purchases. Unfortunately, 
we have received no assistance at all from the producer in this regard. This evidence has 
cost us over $250,000 to produce. An MMS Associate Director, however, has denied our 
appeal. One would think MMS would at least provide a rational explanation as to why it 
chose one body of evidence over another. Conveniently, the Associate Director has 
sidestepped the issue holding that the royalty value determined in the producer’s audit, an 
entirely separate case, “is applicable to the Appellant’s RIK purchases and is controlling 
with respect to the subject appeal.” In other words, Wyoming Refining Company’s 
evidence was ignored. Incredulously, MMS’s position is that after keeping Wyoming 
Refining Company in the dark about the producer’s audit and after allowing us to buy oil 
the price of which MMS knew was likely to change, MMS will, in addition, bind Wyoming 
Refining Company to the “secret" producer valuation proceedings held and concluded 
without us. MMS, therefore, believes it need not consider our evidence. Due process, if it 
means anything, means notice and a meaningful opportunity to challenge the agency's 
decision. MMS apparently would carve out an exception for small refiners who, due to the 
agency's failure to notify, were enticed to their detriment and likely destruction into 
purchasing RIK oil they would not have otherwise bought. 


CONCLUSION 

Madam Chairman, Wyoming Refining Company's current dire straits could have 
been avoided. All that is required is a policy decision that the federal government can no 
longer run its oil development program on the basis of prices that are never final until 
years after the resource has been extracted from the ground. Under current policy, every 
RIK purchase is a potential contingent liability to the company. In obtaining revenue from 
oil development, however, price finality is key. Finality is not present in the current system. 


Before the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 


Bob Neufeld 

Wyoming Refining Company 


coNoeuoooc 


September 18. 1997 
Page S of 6 



263 


and, if our case is any bellwether at all, huge sums of money are wasted redetermining oil 
values long after the oil itself has been consumed. As Wyoming Refining Company’s 
experience has shown, the post production audits engendered by this inconsistent policy 
have unintended and severe consequences. We suspect the certain destruction of small 
refiners, the loss of their competitive influence in the refining industry and an increased 
uncertainty in defense fuel supplies may be only the beginning. 


Bob Neufold Before the Subcomminee on Energy and Mineral Resources 

Wyoming Refining Company 


September 18. 1997 
Page 6 of 6 


CON0E130.0OC 



264 


TESTIMONY OF 

Robert E. Brown, Associate Director 

Minerals Management Service 
U.S. Department of the Interior 

Before the 

Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 
Resources Committee 

House of Representatives 
September 18, 1997 


Madam Chairman and Members of the Subcommittee, I appreciate the opportunity to 
appear today to present testimony on the Minerals Management Service's (MMS) 
examination and implementation of programs to take oil and gas royalties "in kind.” In 
testimony submitted for the July 31 , 1997 hearing on royalty in kind before the 
Subcommittee, MMS Director Cynthia Quarterman provided background information and 
a summary of the draft report of our 1997 Royalty in Kind Feasibility Study. My testimony 
today will focus on our future plans as we proceed toward implementing the report's 
recommendations. Before discussing these plans, I would like to briefly summarize the 
findings and recommendations of our final feasibility study report. 


Final Report of the 1997 Royalty in Kind Feasibility Study 

MMS released the final report on September 2, 1997. Copies were distributed to 
members of the Subcommittee and staff on September 3, 1997. We have brought 
additional copies for interested individuals present at today's hearing. The report is also 
available on the Internet on the MMS Home Page (www.mms.gov). The primary 
objective of the study was to determine if implementation of an RIK program or programs 
for Federal oil and gas is in the best interest of the United States, and, if so, under what 
circumstances. The phrase "best interest of the United States” refers to a program that 
would: 

1 . Offer potential revenue neutrality or enhancements to the U.S. Treasury; and 

2. Provide extensive administrative relief for MMS and industry. 



265 


The overall conclusion of the study is that RIK programs could be workable, revenue 
neutral or positive, and administratively more efficient for MMS and industry. Key 
elements of a successful Federal RIK strategy would include: 

o Downstream Market Presence: To be revenue neutral/positive, an MMS 
program must strategically participate in downstream services and value 
enhancements, either through contracting with energy marketers or in- 
house marketers and associated staff. 

o Aggregation: Provision of substantial volumes could provide MMS and its 
marketing agent(s) with increased market opportunities primarily through 
assurance of supply. 

o Administrative Relief: The greatest relief would accrue under a broadly- 
applied, multi-year program through decreased reporting to MMS and 
discontinuation of audits of the producers’ shares. 

However, RIK programs would have reduced chances for success if implemented under 
the following unfavorable conditions: (1 ) audits of the producers’ shares; (2) legislation 
directing MMS to take in kind for all commodities in all areas or at the lessees’ discretion; 
(3) acceptance of production at less than marketable condition; and (4) payment of above 
market rates for transportation on non-jurisdictional pipelines. 

The report concludes that a natural gas RIK program in the Gulf of Mexico has the 
greatest chance of success of any potential MMS initiative, especially if it involves 
substantial volumes; is long-term; engages one or several marketers; and provides a 
formula for MMS sharing in downstream value additions secured by MMS’s energy 
marketer(s). The report also concludes that while detailed economic effects cannot yet 
be determined, such a program is anticipated to be both revenue positive and 
administratively more efficient for the many reasons described in the report. Accordingly, 
the report recommends implementing an RIK pilot program for Gulf of Mexico natural gas 
consistent with the key success factors described above. 

For crude oil, the report concludes that the information is equivocal, and the revenue and 
administrative implications are uncertain. However, the report indicates there is 
significant interest on the part of producers, marketers, and the State of Wyoming in 
taking crude oil in-kind from Federal leases in Wyoming. Thus, the report recommends 
that a crude oil pilot-developed in concert with all affected parties-be instituted in 
Wyoming to test revenue and administrative effects. 

Similarly, the report notes that the State of Texas has expressed a significant amount of 
interest in an RIK program for Outer Continental Shelf (OCS) 8(g) leases offshore from 
the State. Consequently, because of the potential for a successful OCS Gulf of Mexico 


2 



266 


gas program, the report recommends that MMS and Texas jointly explore the 
possibilities of RIK programs involving these properties. 


Province of Alberta Program 

The Subcommittee's August 28, 1997 invitation to MMS to participate in this hearing 
included a request that we describe any analyses performed by MMS comparing the 
current U.S. royalty management system to Alberfa's RIK scheme. We have not 
conducted a detailed economic analysis comparing the two systems primarily because 
we were not presented with any source documentation or other information from the 
Province upon which we could verify their asserted revenue enhancement of 7 cents 
(Canadian) per barrel. 

However, we have spent some time qualitatively assessing the implications of the Alberta 
crude oil R!K program in regard to U.S. production. We conclude that there are important 
differences between the Alberta production environment and that of onshore 
U.S. production areas--differences that give us pause as we consider RIK scenarios for 
onshore crude oil. For example, Alberta produces roughly the same amount of crude oil 
as currently produced from the Gulf of Mexico in a very concentrated, relatively small 
geographic area with a somewhat limited pipeline infrastructure and nearby refinery 
capacity. The situation is markedly different than onshore in the United States, with its 
more than 36,000 oil wells, 2,600 operators, and 23,000 producing leases scattered 
remotely throughout numerous geologic basins in 28 revenue-receiving States. The 
learning curve for the Federal Government to commence an across-the-board onshore 
RIK program would be prodigious, and perhaps more complex than the existing in-value 
system. It seems obvious to us that implementation of a new crude oil RIK system in the 
onshore environment would be a large and complex undertaking, one that should be 
attempted only if the revenue and administrative impacts for all parties are substantially 
positive. 


Our senior management team at MMS has accepted the recommendations of the 
feasibility study report in concept, and we intend to proceed developing specific program 
models consistent with the favorable conditions previously mentioned. Our first course of 
action is to consult with the Administration, Congress, States, and industry on the results 
of our conceptual study and our next steps. During the past two weeks, we have spoken 
to congressional staff of Members interested in this issue. Director Quarterman has sent 
a formal invitation to Governor Geringer of Wyoming to join with us in a joint exploration 
of RIK opportunities for crude oil in that State. We have also formally invited the State of 
Texas' General Land Office to join us in examining potential RIK programs for Texas 8(g) 


3 



267 


leases. Lastly, we have planned a meeting with industry representatives to discuss these 
matters, to be held on September 22, 1997. 

In regard to natural gas from the Gulf of Mexico, we will soon form an implementation 
project team. The team will identify the scope and overall framework of the proposed 
royalty marketing alliance program and will involve the oil and gas industry in the 
development of program details. A crucial decision point will follow and will be based on 
detailed economic analyses of business proposals submitted by energy marketers or 
developed internally. The results of the analyses will be critical to the decision on 
whether to implement the pilot program, a decision that will be made by the Department 
in conjunction with the Office of Management and Budget. 

Concurrent with this process, we will be working with the States of Wyoming and Texas 
to identify and develop pilot programs for Federal leases in Wyoming and the 8(g) area 
off Texas, respectively. 

I would like to reiterate and emphasize the comments made by Director Quarterman 
earlier this summer that we will not make any final decisions to implement programs 
before detailed analyses of specific programs are completed. I also want to repeat our 
belief that it is not wise to make legislative decisions before comprehensive analyses are 
conducted. Any statutory or regulatory assistance that may be necessary will depend on 
the specific nature of any program that is developed. At this point, it is premature to 
guess what type of legislative assistance, if any, may be needed. 

In closing, let me state that we are enthusiastic about the prospects of implementing 
successful RIK programs for Federal mineral leases. We believe that such programs 
potentially provide an innovative way to dramatically streamline the royalty management 
process--in a manner that could also increase revenues for the U.S. Treasury. We are 
quite serious about giving the RIK concept every chance for successful implementation. 

Thank you Madam Chairman and Members of the Subcommittee, this concludes my 
prepared remarks. I would be pleased to answer any questions you may have. 


4 



268 


BRIEFING PAPER ON 

ROYALTY-IN-KIND FOR FEDERAL OIL AND GAS PRODUCTION 
SEPTEMBER 18, 1997 


ISSUE 

On federal lands, including the outer continental shelf (OCS), lessees make a cash payment for a 
portion of their production value (usually '/, onshore, or '4 offshore) as a royalty to the federal 
government. Valuation of production is a complex and burdensome process for lessee and lessor 
iike that has resulted in years of litigation and the establishment of a large federal government 
audit staff, augmented by State auditors acting under delegation of the Secretary’s authority. On 
January 24, 1997, the Minerals Management Service (MMS) published a notice of proposed 
rulemtiing for valuing crude oil from federal leases for royalty purposes. On July 3, 1997 MMS 
published a supplementary proposed rule responding to comments on the original proposal. Most 
recently, on September 4, 1997, MMS announced its intent to hold workshops and take 
comments on as-yet unannounced alternatives to the proposed rulemaking. 

Recognizing the inherently inefficient and complex valuation process reduces “net” funds to the 
federal and state treasuries are reduced because of excessive audit resources and litigation costs 
borne by the government, the Subcommittee is pursing legislation to implement a Royalty-In-Kind 
(R-I-K) program with attendant savings to government. This is the second oversight hearing. At 
this follow-up to the July 31, 1997 hearing we have invited several “outside sources”, including 
economists, consultants, a representative of private royalty owners, a refiner that has participated 
in the MMS refiner R-l-K program, and an oil marketer contracted to the Alberta Provincial 
government. A representative of the MMS will also testify about the 1997 Royalty In Kind 
Feasibility Stucfy published in August 


In July, the Subcommittee requested the Congressional Research Service to investigate the 
current Alberta Department of Energy oil R-I-K program. The report provides a good summary 
of the development and the current status of the Alberta program, A copy is attached for your 
review. 

The last section of this report addresses “Applicability to the US. Crude Royalty Situation.” In 
this section CRS suggests there may not be enough independent producers with adequate capacity 
from producing area to large markets for an efficient R-I-K system Of course, these very same 
factors mean that crude oil from such locales is valued less than elsewhere and thus royalties-in- 
value on such crude are likewise diminished The CRS report contains many of the same questions 
the Subcommittee hopes to answer before drafting of R-l-K legislation can be completed. We 
will continue to work with CRS to find those answers 

CONCLUSION 

Conceptually, R-I-K has bipartisan support in Congress and among state regulators, the 
Administration, and the industry. The complex programmatic details are where the idea becomes 



269 


more controversial. From this hearing and further interaction with the MMS, the Subcommittee 
will determine what changes to existing law, if any, are needed to allow States with production in 
the CX^S Lands Act Sec. 8(g) zone to take their fraction (27%) of royalty oil and gas in-kind. 

The Subcommittee believes several questions need be answered before crafting legislation to 
implement an R-I-K program, including; 

1 . Can a federal R-I-K program reduce administrative costs by eliminating litigation and 
overhead associated with valuation of the product? 

2. Can a federal R-I-K program maintain or increase revenue through a marketing advantage 
of its large volume of royalty oil and gas? 

3. Can issues such as delivery point, marketable condition, production fluctuation and 
volume balancing be resolved so that mark^ing of the federal product remains 
competitive? 


Attachments: 

Witness list 

CRS Report: Alberta’s Royalty-in-Kind program 



270 



Congressional Research Service • Library' of Congress • Washington, D.C. 20540 


Memorandum 


September 16. 1997 


TO : House Committee on Resources 

Attention: Sharia Bickley 


FROM : Marc Humphries 
Lawrence Kumins 

Environment and Natural Resources Policy Division 


SUBJECT ; Alberta's Royally-in-Kind Program 


This memo discusses the royalty-in-kind (RIK) program that is currently employed for 
oil production in Alberta. Canada. A brief history of the Alberta program is pro\ ided. along 
with a description of how the program works today. Also discussed are major criteria that 
might be used to evaluate the success of the program, and the program's potential 
applicability to the United States. Overall, the Alberta RJK program appears to be 
successfully maximizing revenues to the provincial government and minimizing 
administrati\'e costs. Factors unique to Alberta may be responsible for at least part of that 
apparent success. 

We hope this information will be helpful; for further questions on the topic, we can be 
reached at x7-7264 (Humphries) and x7-7250 (Kumins). 

Introduction 

Alberta oil producers pay royalties to the provincial government with a physical share 
of their production. This contrasts with the typical U.S. procedure, in which royalties are a 
percentage of the value of production and paid in cash. The Alberta system avoids disputes 
over the valuation of oil production for royalty purposes. But it also makes the government 
responsible for ensuring that its royalty oil Is marketed as effectively as possible, and 
potentially makes the government a significant oil-market participant. 

Alberta's RIK system has evolved significantly over the years. The most recent changes 
involved hiring private marketing firms to sell the government’s oil. The current royalty-in- 
kind marketing process is seen by many throughout Alberta’s public and private sectors as 
a successful effort for the provincial government, the province’s oil producers, and other oil 
industry stakeholders. 

Several criteria can be used to evaluate the Alberta RIK program. Maximizing the 
government’s royalty revenues is one of the most important factors. The provincial 
government calculates that its marketing arrangements have earned it higher revenues than 




271 


CRS-2 

it would receive under a royalty system based on the value of production. Additional 
important criteria include administrative costs, fairness to producers, the seeming absence 
of fraud and abuse, and what Albertans view as an acceptable level of government 
involvement in oil markets. 

The apparent success of the Alberta royalty system has prompted some suggestions that 
a similar system could be adopted in the United States. Some regional segments of the U.S. 
oil market bear similarities to the Alberta production and marketing situation. However, 
adoption of an RIK system throughout the United States would face numerous 
complications, particularly the federal government’s ability to arrange for marketing the 
large amounts of oil and gas that would be involved. 

Background 

In Alberta, about 80% of petroleum resources, including those under private land, are 
owned by the “Crown’’; thus, the provincial government collects royalties on most 
production.' Tliere have been three distinct periods in the administration of Alberta’s crude 
oil royalty program: pre-1974, 1974-1996, and post-1996. Since 1974. royalties to the 
provincial government have consisted of a percentage of crude oil volume produced, rather 
than, as typically occurs in the United States, a percentage of the dollar value of the 
production. The primary differences in the way the Alberta program has been administered 
during the past 20 years involve the disposition of the government’s share of the oil. Most 
recently, the government has shifted from directly marketing its share of the oil to a system 
in which government oil disposition is handled by private-sector marketing agents. 

Prc-1974 Period. The system prior to 1974 involved no government marketing. The 
government would sell back to selected producers its 16.6% average royalty share of 
production, The government never took physical possession of the oil (as it still does not), 
but received from producers the cash proceeds from the sale of the royalty share at market 
prices. Because the govermenl’s royalty revenues depended on the value of the oil to 
producers, it was effectively the same as the U.S. value-based royalty system. 

Tension between the provincial and federal governments over revenues from Alberta's 
oil reserves grew during that period. The federal government in 1 971 imposed a tax on crude 
oil reserves, which had the effect of raising the average royally rate from 16.6% to 22%. 
Then in 1973, the federal government imposed an export tax on domestic oil production of 
25 cents per barrel, which was further increased to a high of $6.40 per barrel the following 
year.' 

Direct Government Marketing. By 1974 the Government of Alberta decided to take 
a more active role in developing its oil, establishing a provincial commission to directly 
market all oil produced from government-owned reserves, including producers' shares. Two 
factors led to this: the rapid rise in world oil prices and concern over the depletion of 
Alberta's natural resources. The rapid rise in prices also led the government of Alberta to 


' Telepiione interview with Linda While, Alberta Department of Energy. September 9, 1 997. 

■ Beigie. Carl E., and Alfred O. Hero, Jr., editors. Natural Resources in U.S.-Caiuulkni 
Relations. Vol. I. Westview Press. 1980. p. 264. 


272 


CRS-3 

raise its royalty rates. In response, the federal government disallowed the deduction of the 
provincial royalty from income for corporate income tax purposes. The federal government 
later increased oil exploration and development tax breaks to encourage development of 
Alberta's oil, and allowed domestic oil prices to rise to world levels.^ 

A basic belief by the Alberta government was that substantial government involvement 
would be required for the province to realize its development goals.'’ Two main tactics were 
employed by the provincial government: to lake over the marketing of Alberta’s crude oil, 
and to increase its regulatory’ powers over the production and sale of oil and gas. The Alberta 
Petroleum Marketing Commission (APMC) was established as the sole agent for selling any 
oil produced from government-owned reserves, including the “Crown royalty share” and the 
producers’ share (Petroleum Marketing Act, Chapter P-5). Deregulation of the oil industry 
in 1 985 reduced APMC’s marketing responsibilities to only the Crown share. ^ 

In the early 1 990s, the lack of pipeline capacity and adequate storage became a problem 
for the APMC. By law the government cannot lake possession of its royalty share of oil. The 
Crown's oil had to take priority in the marketing of all oil produced in the province. As a 
result, oil producers were concerned that their oil might end up in storage while Crown oil 
was in the market. Storage and pipeline capacity was added, alleviating the problem. 

Privatization of Crude Oil Royalty Marketing. After a major restructuring in 1994, 
the APMC’s responsibilities were limited to activities directly related to crude oil marketing. 
In 1996 the Alberta Department of Energy (ADOE) assumed the functions of the APMC and 
entered into agreements with marketing agents to market the Crown's oil. 

The Alberta Ministry' of Energy (which includes ADOE) regulates the development of 
energy resources in the province. Tlie Ministry leases production rights for the 80% of 
Alberta’s oil reser\'es that are owned by the provincial government, and requires producers 
to pay the government a royalty in the form of product (crude oil). The royalty rate varies by 
lease (or type of oil). The province has a 5-year contract with three marketing agents that 
take physical possession of the oil. They market the RJK oil through the various pipelines 
to refineries in Alberta, other parts of Canada, and the United States. The Auditor General 
of Alberta provides for an annual audit of the crude oil marketing/royalty-in-volume program 
for the government and presents its report to the provincial Energy Minister. 

The three marketing agents were selected from 24 contenders. An important criterion 
for selection was that the marketing agent not own oil refineries. This was to ensure arm’s- 
length transactions. The marketers are allocated their proportions based partly on the type 
of oil produced, i.e., light crude, sw'eet crude and heav'y crude. The government believes the 
three marketing companies will control sufficient volumes of oil to receive the best pipeline 
rates and prices from large refineries. 

The Energy Resource Conservation Board (ERCB) had been set up in 1971 to address 
broad concerns affecting energy resource development and depletion in Alberta. The ERCB 


’ ibid. 

■* ibid. p. 289. 

’ Minerals Management Service. ]997 Roydty in Kind Feasibility Study. August 1997. p. 8. 



273 


CRS-4 

was later renamed the Alberta Energy Utility Board (AEUB) and given jurisdiction over 
proposals for developing Alberta's reserves with the understanding that local needs were to 
be met first. Public funds could be used to subsidize or purchase industrial development 
projects. This policy led to the creation of the Alberta Energy Company (AEC), a 
private/public energy company. The AEUB, funded in part by the private sector and partly 
by the province, is still primarily a regulatory body for the utility and natural gas industries 
but also a collector of fuels and minerals production data for the ADOE and the private 
sector. 

Current Alberta RIK System 

Royalty rates in Alberta currently average 1 7%, but result from a complex hierarchy of 
rates ranging from 12% to 25%. Most recently, effective rates were 16.3% during 1994. 
17.5% in 1995, and 18.9% for 1996.*’ The rates are linked to a number of factors, including: 

• a three-tier well vintage structure, containing “old” oil from pre-1974 wells, “new" 
oil from wells drilled during the 1974-1994 time frame, and “third tier" oil. flowing 
from post-1994 wells; 

• well productivity and production rates integrated into the royalty formula; and 

• royalty rate adjustments for crude prices. 

Marketing the Crown Share. For years prior to 1 996, as discussed in the pre\ ious 
section, the staff of the Alberta Petroleum Marketing Commission had performed the task 
of marketing royalty crude. As a policy matter, the government wished to get out of the 
business of marketing oil and, at the start of 1996. contracted with three marketing entities. 
These are Gulf Canada Resources Ltd., PanCanada Resources Ltd., and the CANPET Energy 
Group Inc. 

Selection criteria included the marketer's expertise, a lack of affiliation or other 
relationship with a refinery (in Canada or the United States), and a willingness to commingle 
Crown crude w'iih its own and market that oil on the same price basis. This last criterion was 
designed to assure that the producer expended the same effort on behalf of the Crown as it 
did on its own behalf to realize the highest prices. In fact, the companies selected are 
basically oil production companies with a strong marketing capability and have very limited 
involvement in other aspects of the petroleum industry. The marketers are paid 5 cents per 
barrel for their services.^ 

As a provincial entity, the Marketing Commission had won respect for its marketing 
expertise, according to industry officials. Indeed, as royalty oil marketing was privatized, 
the commission staff were regarded well enough that many were hired by the three marketing 
firms. 


Telephone conference with Linda While, ADOE, September 5, 1997. 

^ Minerals Management Service. J 997 Royally in Kind Feasibility Siudy. August 1997. p. 9. 



274 


CRS-5 

Marketing Implementation. Because of the limited local market for crude oil in 
Alberta, much production is moved to other markets via three pipeline systems. The 
InterProvincial Pipeline moves crude to the mid-continent area, with an important terminal 
in Chicago. The Express pipeline moves oil due south, connecting to the Platte Pipeline 
System in the United States. Finally, the Transmountain Pipeline transports oil to the West 
Coast, offering access to refineries in British Columbia as well as to international markets. 

The Alberta DOE is proactive in matters relating to pipeline capacity and construction. 
It coordinates transport through pipelines, has effectively sought to relieve bottlenecks on the 
Interprovincial line, and has supported construction of both the Express and Transmoimtain 
systems. 

With growing production — and increasing demand for Canadian crude in the United 
States — Alberta has sought to acquire rights to firm capacity on these facilities, thus 
guaranteeing access to broader markets offering liquidity, depth and world (in contrast to 
local) market prices. Table 1 shows 1994 to 1996 royalty crude sales revenues. 


Table 1. Alberta Royalt}’ Crude Sales 1994-6 


Year 

Sales 

(CS billions) 

Barrels 

(millions) 

1997 (Jan. -July) 

1.0 

36 

1996 

1.9 

71 

1995 

1.6 

72 

1994 

1.4 

66 


Source: Alberta DOE 

Major Performance Indicators 

Based on such considerations as maximized government revenues and minimized 
administrative costs, and by the satisfaction expressed by most participants contacted for this 
report, the Alberta RIK program appears successful. While the provincial government’s 
involvement in the oil market may have caused concern among producers in the past, that 
situation apparently has eased with the enlargement of total pipeline capacity. 

RIK Sales Program Price Performance. Alberta produces both sweet and sour 
crudes; sweet crude typically sells for more than sour. Therefore, two price comparisons are 
called for in measuring the performance of Alberta's royalty crude marketing efforts. 
Comparison is made between a reference price — based on world market price measures — 
for each crude, computed by the consulting firm Purvin and Gurtz. The results in 1 995 and 
1996 indicate that RIK crude sales realized prices within a few pennies per barrel of 
reference. This is viewed as an excellent performance, especially when contrasted with the 
alternative of anempling to market crude at the lease location in the local Alberta oil market. 











275 


CRS-6 

Total government rev enues arc substantial, and 1996 realizations of about U,S.SI9 per 
barrel appear to be generally in line with world prices, especiallv' given the remote site of 
production, long transport route, and the mixture of sweet and sour crudes. 


Administrative Costs. Simplicity and ease of administration are generalh’ believed to 
be among the strongest attributes of the Alberta RIK system. The three marketing firms 
selling the Crown's share of Alberta crude production carr\- out the task for about 5 cents per 
barrel. It mav’ well be that their fee is low because there are other benefits for the firms from 
participating in the program. Certainly these companies become larger factors in crude 
markets by virtue of selling Crown crude as if it were their own. and this is likely a factor in 
keeping RIK marketing costs low. 

Alberta DOE spends about CS750.000 per year to administer the oil RJK program, with 
a staff of about 17. The marketers have received C$2.3-2.7 million per year, according to 
the Department.* Those figures indicate that Alberta DOE spends a total of about CS3'3.5 
million per year to collect annual RIK revenues of C$1.4-l. 9 billion. A 1995 studv by the 
Alberta Petroleum Marketing Commission concluded that the total administrative costs ol 
the RIK program were less than they would be under most alternative royalty sy stems. 

The U.S. Minerals Management Service's oil and gas royalty program received S70 
million in FYI997 to collect royalties and rents from 1.837 outer continental shelf leases. 
19.770 onshore leases, and 3,754 leases on Indian lands. In 1996. MMS collected $4.3 
billion in royalties and an additional $150 million in rents and other revenues. While three- 
quarters of revenues came from OCS oil and gas production, only 40% of the MMS revenue 
collection budget was expended on OCS collections. With 1 0 times as many leases onshore 
as olTshore. 43% of the collection budget was expended here, despite the fact that only one- 
fifth of revenues were derived onshore. Collecting revenues from Indian lands was even 
more costly, accounting for 17% of the collections budget but only about 4% of revenue 
collection, These summaty figures show that collecting the big-ticket OCS revenues is much 
less expensive than collecting from a diversity of onshore and Indian leases. 

With rising production — mostly from OCS lands — ;uid prices (especially for natural 
gas) during 1 997. higher revenues will likely result this year. This development should 
result in royalty collection s becoming more cosi-efficieni. But collection from a huge 
variety of onshore leases — often small and geographically remote — as well as the 
specialized matter of collecting from leases on Indian lands, raises the underlying cost 
structure of a royalty collection program which is fundamentally more complex than 
Alberta's. 

A detailed comparison of the royalty collection costs of Alberta DOE and MMS would 
be required to account for all the non-comparable circumstances in the two systems; such an 


* Telephone interv iew with Linda White. Alberta Department of Energy. September 9. 1997. 

Alberta Petroleum Marketing Commission. Crude OH Royalty AlbcDiuth es. Februarv 1 7. 
1995. p. 1. 

Fax communication from Todd McCuicheon. Minerals Management Service Office of Poliev 
and Management Improvement. September 15, 1997, 




276 


CRS-7 

exercise lias iidt been coiuluctcil. However, it is ptissible that sucli a study would find 
admitiislralivc cost differences under the Alberta RIK system, probably because of the 
relaii\c!\ hieh auditing and adiudiealion expenditures inherent in the current U.S. royalty 
valuation system. Idnder the Alberta RIK program — which, it must be emphasized, has a 
long operating histoiy with little acrimony among the parties — the marketers are audited, 
but not individual producers," 

Fairness to Producers. We were unable to identify specific producer complaints 
related to the Alberta royalty system, with the exception of producer concerns about 
government claims on pipeline capacit\' during brief periods of capacity prorationing. It 
would appear that has been a iransitoiy phenomenon, however, since pipeline capaciu- in the 
region is continually expanding. 

Some contro\crs\' oxer the Alberta RIK program also arose during the transition to 
private marketing of RIK oil. Press reports at the time indicated that some large producers 
faxored a return to some form of the pre-1974 cash royalty system, perhaps similar to 
Alberta's current system for gas production.'" Producers also expressed concern that the 
provincial government would shoxv favoritism in selecting private marketers for royalty oil. 
an allegation strongly denied by government officials." 

Government Involvement in Oil Markets. Direct government marketing of royaltx 
oil began during the oil supplx' disruptions of the 1970s, when Canada, like other nations, 
imposed numerous controls on its oil markets. But because most ot Alberta s oil reserves 
were owned by the province, the federal government could not directly use the oil to afTect 
the marketplace. As indicated by the previous description o! federal-provincial tensions 
during that period, it appears that Alberta government's interests lay closer to those of the 
local oil industry. Nevertheless, there was apparently enough concern about provincial 
government involvement in oil markets to prompt the 1996 transfer of royalty marketing 
activities to the private sector. 

Applicability' to the U.S. Crude Royalty Situation 

Could the Alberta crude oil royaltx’ system work in the United Stales? There are several 
unique factors in Albena that have helped the program to apparently succeed, many of which 
may not exist in all segments of ilie U.S. market — particularly the crude oil market. U.S. 
gas markets, with good transportation access to multiple distribution points, may provide a 
better fit to the Albena model (which there is used only for oil). 

Factors Leading to Alberta's Apparent Success. A number of factors combine to 
help the .Alberta RIK program achieve satisfactory results. In addition to what amounts to 
a veiy long histoiy' of government oil oxvnership, Alberta oil fields cover a relatively 
concentrated geographic area from a pipeline transport perspective. The transport system is 
geared to moving oil out of a surplus area to refinery markets, many of which are quite far 


" White, op. cil. 

'* Boras. Alan. Producers Fight PrivaiizaUon. Ca\Qavy HerM. January 10, 1996. p.DI. 
Boras. Alan. Province Pru.sse.s Privatization. Calgary Herald. January 9, 1996. p.DI. 



277 


CRS-8 

away. Alberta has been proactive in pipeline development, ensuring capacity for movement 
of its own crude to larger, distant markets. 

Because the local refinery market is small relative to production, Alberta has a number 
of independent producers with little involvement in other aspects of the petroleum industry, 
other than marketing their own crude. With 24 such entities bidding on the marketing of RIK 
crude, there seem to be an ample number producer/marketers willing to do business with the 
government and capable of performing arm's-length crude sales. In addition, these 
independents are willing to physically commingle their own crude with RIK crude, sell it on 
a commingled basis, and share the pooled revenues with Alberta. This arrangement may be 
mutually beneficial. 

Two of the most important factors that seem to contribute to the Alberta RIK program’s 
apparent success — large oil volumes and low-cost transportation — were delineated in a 
September 2. 1997, written response to Subcommittee Chairman Cubin by Continental 
Resources Inc. Continental, an independent oil producer based in Oklahoma, enhances the 
value of its oil by aggregating small quantities into larger-volume packages that are more 
attractive to buyers. Small packages of oil tend to realize lower per-barrel values, and 
aggregation avoids what amounts to a low-volume discount. To minimize transportation 
costs in situations where inadequate or overpriced transport facilities resuit in low crude 
reciepts. Continental will seek alternatives, including construction of its own facilities. 

Alberta accomplishes both of those goals in its RIK program. The combination of 
producer/marketer and RJK crude results in a critical mass of marketable product and avoids 
the low-volume discount. And by exercising its governmental power, Alberta involves itself 
in pipelining to the extent that it eliminates costly bottlenecks between the wellhead and 
ultimate point of sale. 

Comparison to U.S. Situation. Two special considerations exist in Alberta that have 
been keys to the RJK program results. These might not be present in the United States. The 
first is the presence of completely independent oil producers that have no commercial 
affiliation with other parts of the petroleum industry, except for crude marketing. These 
marketers have access to pipeline transport that has adequate capacity to connect producing 
areas to large markets. Second, the crude producer/marketers are willing to do business with 
Alberta for a low fee, and commingle crude revenues. 

In many segments of the U.S. oil and gas market, circumstances may be quite different 
from those in Alberta. U.S. royalty valuation complaints often come from independent 
producers. Tliesc are often smaller producers — in contrast to integrated firms — located 
in smaller fields. These fields may be either remote from major markets and/or served by 
transport systems that are controlled by other firms, often integrated petroleum companies 
rather than open-access, common carrier-type transporters. The firms owning such pipelines 
many also own the refineries that are an oil field’s only customers. 

Complaints about valuation have come from producers who contend that local market 
conditions result in prices well below the world market. With MMS seeking royalties related 
to crude traded on recognized international markets such as the NYMEX, some producers 
would rather tender crude to MMS than pay a cash royalty based on prices well above field 
market transactions in their locality. 



278 


CRS-9 

If MMS became a major oil owner, would the agency be able to find enough help from 
third-party firms solely engaged in cmde marketing? Or could the necessary expertise come 
instead from unaffiliated smaller producers, who might want to market RIK oil to become 
larger players in the marketplace in addition to earning marketing fees? 

And without Alberta’s history of involvement in assuring the availability of open- 
access transport to large and competitive refinery markets, MMS RJK crude sales efforts 
could be hampered by the same factors causing the producers to realize below-world market 
prices. Would these smaller firms that might market RIK oil, as Continental itself contends, 
have the financial and operational capability to successfully deal with inherently difficult 
transport situations? 



279 



Congressional Research Service • Library of Congress • Washington, D.C. 20540 


Memorandum September 17. 1997 


TO 

: House Natural Resources Committee 

Attention: Deborah Lanzone 

FROM 

: Marc Humphries 

Lawrence Kumins 

Environment and Natural Resources Policy Division 

SUBJECT 

Royalty-In-Kind Issues 


This memo discusses major issues (hat would be involved in the establishment of a 
large-scale royalty-in-kind (RIK) program in (he United States. Producers of oil and natural 
gas on federal onshore or offshore lands currently pay royalties to the U.S. government as 
a percentage of the value of their production. Under a royalty-in-kind program, producers 
would give the federal government a physical share of their oil and gas production. RIK 
proponents contend that the system would reduce administrative costs and disagreements 
over the valuation of oil and gas production for royalty collections. However, such a system 
also would require an effective system for marketing the federabgovemment’s oil and gas 
shares and could lead to significant government involvement in oil and gas markets. 

This memo begins with an overview of major policy issues that might be involved in 
establishing an RIK system in the United States, including a discussion of the complexities 
and differences in the U.S. markets for crude oil and natural gas. The current U.S. oil and 
gas royalty system is briefly described and basic royalty statistics presented. Options 
currently under consideration for the U.S. royalty system are discussed, along with potential 
RIK models currently in operation. 

We hope this information is helpful. If we can be of further assistance on this matter, 
please call us at x7-7264 (Humphries) or x7-7250 (Kumins). 

Policy Overview 

Collection of royalties on oil and gas production from federal leases is a complex 
administrative task. Thousands of leases covering millions of acres must be monitored and 
audited to ensure that the U.S. Treasury and other royalty revenue recipients receive the 
monies they are statutorily due. A total of $4 billion in federal oil and gas royalties are 
estimated to have been collected by the U.S. Minerals Management Service (MMS) in 1996. 

Major changes in the U.S. royally system would raise numerous issues for the wide 
variety of public- and private-sector participants in the current program. For the federal 




280 


CRS-2 

government and other recipients of royalty revenues, the changes would have to result in 
collections at least as high as under the current system. For the oil and gas producers, a new 
system would need to provide fairness, while ensuring that their marketing arrangements 
would not be unduly disrupted. For the economy as a whole, the level of administrative and 
transaction costs would be important, as well as concerns about government involvement in 
energy markets. 

Policy Considerations for U.S. Markets 

A number of proposals for taking royalties in kind, instead of a cash royalty share, 
have engaged congressional interest. This interest has arisen at least partly because of 
seemingly successful RIK programs in Alberta and, on a smaller scale, Texas. Additionally, 
there is a perception that MMS is under-collecting royalties with the current cash system. 
And there have been a number of acrimonious disputes between MMS and producers over 
the value of the oil and gas upon which the royalty is based. Valuing oil or gas that is sold 
by the producer to an affiliated entity — a common occurrence — has created special 
challenges. 

Additional valuation complexities involve remotely located, low -volume production, 
chiefly from onshore lands. The cost of transporting small quantities of hydrocarbons to 
distant markets is reflected in low prices at the producing lease. 

The Province of Alberta has been directly involved in crude marketing for many years. 
Most recently, it has privatized the marketing of its royalty share of oil production, 
contracting with three organizations to sell the “Crown share” of the oil. The contracts were 
let initially by bid, which led to a round of negotiations with the finalists. Alberta was able 
to impose some strict criteria on its marketing agents. These firms — in addition to earning 
fees for service — were likely attracted to the deal because the RJK oil, which they sell as 
if it were their own, enlarged their share of the crude market and made them more important 
market participants. 

Several factors having to do with the nature of Canadian marketer's business practices 
seem to have contributed to Alberta’s success. First, the firms are completely unafFiliated 
with refiners, and only produce and sell oil. Secondly, the firms were willing to commingle 
RJK oil with their own output in a completely nondiscriminatory way, so that equal 
marketing efforts were expended and equal prices earned. Finally, the firms had operational 
and marketing expertise to be able to transport and sell crude over a wide geographic area. 
Much of this oil is sold to refiners in the U.S. mid-continent. But their access to pipeline 
transportation allows them to sell into the British Colombia and the U.S. intermountain west. 
As a result, Alberta RIK crude is transported from markets where supply greatly exceeds 
demand, reaching major refining markets where it sells for world market prices. 

Alberta has been pro-active in its RIK program. In addition to many years of experience 
in crude marketing, the province has been actively involved in promoting the construction 
of two new pipelines and the expansion of capacity on the Interprovincial Pipeline — the 
main West-to-East transport link. The provincial government’s involvement has ensured 
that RIK crude has equal access to transportation. 

With U.S. crude production on federal lands, affiliations between producers, pipeline 
owners and accessible refineries are common and can result in valuation disputes. Truly 



281 


CRS-3 

independent producers often have little claim on transport and may be comparatively less 
advantaged in their transactions with crude buyers. In contrast to Alberta, there may be few 
firms that can execute crude sales on a truly arm’s-length basis. Further, the pipeline 
situation here is different. Open-access transport is not generalized. And pipelines built by 
producers often are targeted to serving their own refineries, rather than a market area with 
broad-based, multi-firm participation. 

The Alberta situation may be more reflective of OCS oil than onshore oil. While the 
MMS onshore royalty interest is both small and diffuse, there may be independent producers 
(and states owning their own royalty oil) who would find it advantageous to pool their 
marketing efforts with MMS RIK oil. This is an area where further research, and perhaps 
a market test could be informative. 

The natural gas situation is quite different than that of crude oil. As described below, 
deregulation of U.S. gas markets has resulted in the ascendency of large number of brokers 
and traders who are either completely unaffiliated with other parts of the gas industry or — 
in the case of gas industry trading affiliates — operate at true arm’s-length. And the history 
of gas pipeline regulation has left a legacy of open access to transport. 

With large royally interests in the offshore Gulf of Mexico and in some states, MMS 
would have potential to form relationships with gas marketing entities, and would likely have 
a variety of firms from which to choose. But, in order to be successful in RIK marketing, 
MMS would have to adopt commercial business practices. This may be one of the most 
important lessons from a 1995 RIK experiment that has been deemed unsuccessful.' 
Complicated and time-consuming bidding provisions, and terms and conditions that are not 
normal business practice, lower the value of any deal in the commercial world. Indeed, part 
of Alberta’s apparent success stems from the fact that government involvement in selling oil 
had been so extensive that provincial officials had sufficient knowledge and expertise to 
privatize the whole RIK marketing efTort in a very short time. 

U.S. Oil and Natural Gas Markets and RIK Systems 

While oil and gas are often considered in the same thought, field markets for crude oil 
and natural gas are in fact fundamentally different. Oil may be produced from the same field 
as natural gas, but it reaches its point of consumption via a path differing so greatly from the 
track followed by gas, that the two can realistically be thought of as completely unrelated 
commodities. Certainly both commodities follow fHice paths as different as the routes each 
transverses on the way to burner-tip markets. 

Gas production — including that from federal lands — is transported great distances 
by a variety of pipeline systems on behalf of a great diversity of owners, most of which are 
unaffiliated with the long-distance pipelines. The long-haul pipelines are, for the most part, 
subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulation (FERC), which ensures 
nondiscriminatory, open access. Pipeline rates — in areas served by more than one pipeline 
and therefore deemed to have a workably competitive transport market — are subject to 
cursory tariff review. This process is the evolutionary outcome of the phaseout of years of 


7 . 


Minerals Management Service. 1997 Royalty in Kind Feasibility Study. August 1997. p. 




282 


CRS-4 

utility accounting-type regulation, and amounts to a situation very close to complete 
deregulation. 

The combination of open-access, deregulation and what has become strong competition 
among gas transporters has created an enlarged cohort of market participants. Among the 
pla} ers are a \ariety of brokers, traders and dealmakers who match producers with 
consumers. These intermediaries can be completly independent, operating as stand-alone 
brokers, like the Natural Gas Clearinghouse. Alternatively, intermediaries may be affiliates 
of another gas industry entity, but their relationship is of a truly arm's-length nature by virtue 
of FERC regulation. 

Oil production from federal lands is less easily transported to nationw'ide markets. 
Indeed, OCS production — located in the Gulf of Mexico and California — is shipped via 
pipeline to refineries located relatively near the production site. Often, the production, 
pipeline and refineries are owned by the same firm or firms. Production of unaffiliated 
entities — such as RIK. crude — might have a more difficult time finding its way to a market 
on its own. without the assistance of one of the integrated firms participating in production 
from the leases involved. 

Both natural gas and oil are also produced from federal onshore lands. About 1 .9 tef of 
gas (roughly 1 0% of domestic output) was produced in 24 states during 1 996. Total royalty 
interest would be about 225 bcf. While more than half came from New Mexico, this 
relatively small amount of gas is spread over a large geographic area. It might be difficult 
to package enough volume for a profitable RJK transaction, although there has been little 
research and very limited market tests to determine potential marketability of remotely 
located, small packages of RIK gas. 

Onshore oil production of 330,000 barrels per day (about 5% of domestic output) results 
from federal lands in 25 states. Wyoming — where the federal royalty interest is only about 
5,000 barrels per day — is the leading onshore producer from federal lands. The federal 
royalty interest for onshore oil nationally is only about 40,000 barrels per day, and this is 
broadly spread across the nation. 

Current U.S. Mineral Royalty System 

The Minerals Management Service (MMS), established in 1982 by Executive Order 
3071 as part of the Department of the Interior (DOI), collects royalties for the production of 
oil, gas, and minerals on federal lands, including the outer continental shelf. 

The Offshore Minerals Management Program administers competitive leasing on outer 
continental shelf lands and oversees the exploration and production of offshore oil, gas and 
other minerals. For 1996, MMS’ Royalty Management Program (RMP) collected royalties 
from 1,837 oil and gas leases on offshore federal lands. For onshore federal land, royalties 
for production are collected from 1 9,770 onshore federal leases and 3,754 on Indian lands.^ 

MMS collects the overwhelming majority of federal royalties as a fixed share of the 
value of production from federal leases. Because the sale of oil and gas is often a complex 


- 1996 MMS Mineral Revenues (draft). 




283 


CRS-5 

transaction, determining the value of production for royalty purposes can be cumbersome and 
litigious. Under the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act (43 U.S.C. 1331, et. seq.), the 
federal government can instead collect its royalty share in kind — as a share of the actual oil 
and gas production. This option is currently limited primarily to a small program that 
provides crude oil to disadvantaged small refiners. 

Production and Revenues from Federal Leases 

In 1996, the RMP collected about $4 billion in revenues from OCS oil and gas leases. 
Additionally, about $540 million in royalties was collected from onshore production. 
Royalty collections for the OCS — which are subject to various adjustments and are 
composed of the average of several rates — averaged 1 5.4% of reported “sales value” for gas 
and 1 5.2% for crude. Onshore, MMS received royalty rates of 1 1 .4% for gas and 1 0.3% for 
oil. Six states — Wyoming, New Mexico, Colorado, Utah. Montana, and California — 
account for over 90% of onshore revenues. 


Tabic 1. Federal Onshore Oil and Gas, 1996 


State 

Oil 

Gas 

Production 
{million barrels) 

Royalties 
(million $) 

Production 

(bef) 

Royalties 
(million $) 

Wyoming 

43.1 

86.3 

486.5 

73.4 


31.4 

63.2 

1,060.7 

164.8 

California 

21.0 

24.5 

14.6 

2.5 

Colorado 

6.6 

17.9 

76.3 

12.7 

Texas 

0.6 

1.4 

79.4 

19.4 

Other 

18.8 

39.1 

182.2 

37.1 

Total 

121.5 

232.4 

1,899.7 

309.9 


Source; Mineral Revenues 1996 (draft), MMS 


Table 2 . Federal Offshore Oil and Gas, 1996 


State 

Oil 

Gas 

Production 
(million barrels) 

Royalties 
(million $) 

Production 

(bcO 

Royalties 
(million $) 

Louisiana 

349.1 

1,019.0 

3,898.2 

1,455.0 

California 

67.8 

135.7 

37.8 

10.3 

Texas 

21.1 

65.0 

972.9 

354.7 

Other 

negligible 

negligible 

115.5 

45.7 

Total 

438.0 

1,219.7 

5,024.4 

1,865.7 


Source: Mineral Revenues 1996 (draft), MMS. 





























































284 


CRS-6 

The revenues from onshore leases are distributed to states in which they were collected, 
to the General Fund of the U.S. Treasury, and to other designated programs. All states 
except Alaska {which gets 90%) receive 50% of the revenue collected from federal mineral 
leases. Revenues from the offshore leases are divided among the coastal states, the Land and 
Water Conservation Fund, the Historic Preservation Fund, and the U.S. Treasury. The states 
receive 27% of the oil and gas royalties only from leases located within three miles of their 
seaward boundaries. 

Current and Proposed Royalty Valuation Methods 

The appropriate valuation for oil and gas produced on federal land has been a major 
issue for a number of years. Some critics charge that MMS has been collecting less than fair- 
market value in oil and gas royalties as a result of undervaluation of production on federal 
leases. 

Under the current royalty system, MMS collects a percentage of the gross proceeds of 
oil and gas sales from federal leases. The system requires substantial auditing of producers 
and creates numerous disputes that must be adjudicated. Evidence has been presented during 
congressional hearings that the U.S. is underpaid millions of dollars in royalties as a result 
of its current pricing rules. The MMS initially wanted to add more auditors in the field to 
verify production values, but funding has not been provided. 

MMS has acknowledged the underccllection problem and attempted to correct it with 
proposed rules for establishing a price from which to calculate the government’s royalty 
share. Discussion has centered on replacing the gross proceeds method with one that is more 
closely tied to the New York Mercantile Exchange price (NYMEX) for oil. Opponents of 
that idea argue that the NYMEX price of crude oil does not reflect the value of the oil at the 
lease and that a great deal of arm’s-length pricing is already taking place. The proposed rule 
change, issued in January 1997, was amended in July. The amended rule will be discussed 
at workshops throughout October 1997. A final rule may be as far off as September 1998.^ 
Many producers continue to argue for an RJK system as a substitute for any new valuation 
method. 

New rules for pricing natural gas are also being developed by the MMS. Two options 
were proposed in June 1997 for comment: an index price plus or minus an “X” factor, and 
a pricing method for natural gas used by the Norwegian government. Both options are 
intended to reduce the difficulty of establishing values for each lease and the corresponding 
need for audit and adjudication. 

Under the proposed index pricing method, MMS would attempt to adjust the benchmark 
price to leases in various regions. The proposed “X” factor would reflect difficulties in 
marketing, transportation, or other regional anomalies. The “X" factor would be computed 
from the previous year’s differences between the average indices and the average gross 
proceeds. 


’ Barber, Jeff. MMS Plans to Open Talks With Industry Over Oil- Valuation Options. Inside 
Energy/with Federal Lands. September 8, 1997. p. 11. 




285 


CRS-7 

The Norwegian government uses a “norm” price for crude and most petroleum products, 
which corresponds to the value at which petroleum could have been traded between 
independent parties in a free market. For natural gas, contractual prices are used because of 
the long-term nature of the natural gas contracts. MMS would establish a pricing board and 
consider the procedure used in Norway; setting prices quarterly and retroactively. The 
pricing board would form a price band and allow for company comment before issuing its 
final "norm” price. The Norway model is used by Alberta, Canada, for collecting natural gas 
royalties. 


Royalty-in-Kind Options 

Collection of royalties “in kind” rather than “In value” has been proposed as fair way 
to eliminate disagreements over the correct valuation of oil and gas production from federal 
leases. Because the actual amount of production from a given well or field is well 
documented, the amount of oil or gas due to the government would be objectively clear to 
all sides. However, the government would then have to market its share as effectively as 
possible to ensure that revenues at least equaled those under the royalty-in-value system. 

MMS Pilot Programs 

MMS was asked to conduct pilot studies on how an RIK collection method might 
resolve the undervaluation problem. After a limited, voluntary, and generally unsuccessful 
RIK pilot program, MMS held several field hearings on what a successful RIK program 
would need to include. The August 1997 Royalty In Kind Feasibility Study resulting from 
those hearings recommended that MMS pursue three new pilot programs: 

• a long-term (perhaps 3 years) OCS pilot to market large quantities of natural gas 
through private sector marketing agents; 

• a joint venture pilot with Wyoming for an oil RIK program; and 

• a joint effort with Texas to explore possible RIK projects involving OCS 8(g) leases 
offshore from Texas. 

MMS estimates it will take between 6 months and 2 years to implement these 
recommendations. From start to finish the pilot could take up to 5 years to complete. 

The proposed gas RIK pilot would involve about one-third of the natural gas production 
under MMS jurisdiction in the Gulf of Mexico. MMS would contract out the marketing to 
private-sector marketers. The agency envisions that the gas transportation system will allow 
RIK gas to be effectively marketed downstream, and that concentrations of RIK gas will be 
large enough to give marketers leverage with buyers. Agency officials estimate that the 
federal RIK gas in the pilot program would constitute 4-5% percent of U.S. Gulf of Mexico 
gas production.^ 


* MMS briefing for CRS. September 8, 1997. 




286 


CRS-8 

Unresolved issues include the point at which the federal government would take 
ownership of its in-kind volumes, and whether the government would ever take physical 
possession of its production share. The latter issue raises the question of storage 
requirements for RIK oil, if adequate m^keting arrangements, including transportation, 
could not be arranged. 

The potential economic effects of a latge-scale RJK program on U.S. oil and gas 
markets have yet to be fully analyzed. MMS believes that even though the volume is 
significant enough to get a fair market price and low transportation rates, the U.S. royalty 
share is not enough to cause an effect on natural gas prices. 

The natural gas pilot that MMS wants to pursue was selected based on the possibility 
of the greatest revenue to the Treasury. The pilot with Wyoming will allow MMS to test the 
feasibility of an onshore crude oil RIK. approach. Wyoming has been interested in 
administering the management of royalties from federal leases in Wyoming for quite some 
time. Texas has a state RIK program already in place and would like to expand its 
participation in RIK through the pilot that is being proposed. In all cases, the goals of the 
RIK system are: 

• certainty in royalty shares (minimizing disputes); 

• .simple and efficient administration; and 

• adequate marketing of RIK oil to maximize government revenues. 

Need for Legislation 

MMS anticipates being able to conduct further pilot RIK programs under existing law, 
which specifically authorizes the Secretary of the Interior to elect to receive the royalties 
owed the government in the form of oil or gas rather than cash (30 U.S.C. §192). However, 
some provisions in current law could hinder or block the implementation of the pilot RIK 
programs that MMS is currently considering. MMS hopes to find solutions to those 
problems and is not currently seeking RJK legislation.^ 

Potential legal problems for RIK pilots include: existing requirements that royalty oil 
and gas from each lease be sold at market value through competitive bidding; the lack of 
specific authority for slates to market the federal royalty share; and statutory reporting 
requirements. Legislation introduced in the 104*’’ Congress, the Federal Oil and Gas loyally 
Simplification and Fairness Act (H.R. 1975), included provisions that addressed some of 
those issues, but they were later dropped. 

Competitive Bidding and Fair Market Value. Under the Outer Contintental Shelf 
Lands Act (OCSLA), if the Interior Department takes OCS oil or gas as the government’s 
royalty share, then the product must be sold by competitive bidding for “not less than its fair 
market value” (§27(cXl)). The law defines “fair market value” as the price received for 
other oil and gas sold from the same lease, if such sales were made (or, if not, a price based 


’ Meeting with Todd R. McCutcheon, MMS Office of Policy and Management Improvement, 
September 8, 1997. 




287 


CRS-9 

on other market tests). That definition appears to require MMS to determine the sales price 
of oil and gas from OCS leases, even if the royalty share is taken in-kind rather than in-value. 
As MMS noted in the RIK study: 

Did Congress really intend for the U.S. to continue to audit the lessee’s share of 
lease production when taking in kind? With such administrative burdens, why 
would anyone implement an in kind program? How would it be possible for the 
U.S. to know the pricing details of the producer’s share of lease production in “real 
time” so that sale of the royalty share could take it into account?* 

To get around that problem, the MMS study raised the possibility that the OCSLA 
provisions could be interpreted as allowing a general determination of regional “fair market 
value” that could be used for broad categories of RIK sales. 

The competitive bidding requirement could preclude the type of sales arrangement 
envisioned for the RIK pilots, in which one or more marketing agents would negotiate the 
sale of royalty oil and gas. The MMS royalty study suggests that the statutory requirement 
could be met by conducting a competitive bidding process in selecting the marketing agents, 
who could then follow efficient business practices in selling the government's royalty shares. 
Whether such an approach would withstand legal challenge is unclear. 

The competitive bidding and market value requirements may also pose an obstacle to 
the proposed demonstration with the Slate of Texas, which currently provides RIK gas from 
state leases to state facilities at a lower price than available from alternative suppliers. Texas 
has proposed including OCS 8(g) royalty gas in the program, but it is not clear whether the 
Texas program, by selling gas to selected customers at relatively low prices, would meet the 
competitive bidding and fair-market value requirements for RIK gas disposition. 

State Authority to Sell RIK Shares From Federal Leases. Under the Mineral 
Leasing Act, slates receive a share of the royalty revenues from federal leases. As noted 
previously, Texas has requested that it receive the state’s share of offshore gas in kind, while 
the State of Wyoming has proposed that it receive and market both the federal and state 
shares. 

The MMS royalty report recommends that pilot programs with the two slates be 
pursued. MMS has found no authority to allow state marketing of oil and gas from federal 
leases, but notes that “there does not appear to be any statutory bar to establishing joint 
programs.”’ Specific congressional authorization of such programs could resolve the 
uncertainty and provide criteria for MMS to proceed. 

Other Potential Legislative Issues. MMS anticipates that private marketers would 
handle the marketing of federal RIK oil and gas. In addition to paying the marketing firms, 
the federal government might also have to pay for transportation and processing of its royalty 
share. However, the MMS royally study found that the agency could not directly pay for 


^ Minerals Management Service. 1997 Royalty in Kind Feasibility Study. August 1997. p. 24. 
’ MMS, op. cit. p. 24. 




288 


CRS-IO 

such services “without a specific appropriation for this purpose.’'* Without legislation, 
indirect payments may be possible through profit-sharing contracts or other arrangements, 
according to the study. 

Questions have also arisen about the Interior Department’s authority in an RIK program 
to reduce reporting requirements under the Federal Oil and Gas Royalty Management Act 
(FOGRMA). MMS currently collects detailed data on royalty payments, production 
amounts, and other factors tliat FOGRMA requires to be provided to states. The MMS 
royalty report concluded that the law would allow the reporting requirements for such data 
to be “drastically simplified” under an RIK program ’ As widi the other issues, however, 
legislation could help clear up doubts about that interpretation. 

Existing RIK Programs 

The province of Alberta. Canada, operates the largest existing royalty-in-kind program, 
which collects $l-$2 billion per year. A smaller program in Texas provides fuel to state 
facilities to reduce their costs. The operation of those existing RIK programs may provide 
insight into some of the issues that would be involved in developing a large-scale federal 
program. 

Alberta Oil Program 

In Alberta, about 80% of petroleum resources, including those under private land, are 
owned by the Crown; thus, the provincial government collects royalties on most production.’^ 
The province has taken its royalties in kind since 1974; the primary differences in the way 
the Alberta program ha.s been administered during the past 20 years involve the disposition 
of the government’s share of the oil. Most recently, the government has shifted from directly 
marketing its share of the oil to contracting with marketing agents to “privatize” the 
disposition system. 

Program History. The Alberta government began directly marketing all oil produced 
from government-owned reserves in 1974, during the first of the major 1 970s “oil shocks.” 
The Alberta Petroleum Marketing Commission (APMC) wts established as the province’s 
sole marketing agent — handling both the “Crown royalty share” and the producers’ share 
(Petroleum Marketing Act, Chapter P-5). Deregulation of the oil industry in 1 985 reduced 
APMC’s marketing responsibilities to only the Crown share.” 

In the early 1 990s, the lack of pipeline capacity and adequate storage became a problem 
for the APMC, By law the government cannot take possession of its royalty share of oil. The 
Crown’s oil had to take priority in the marketing of all oil produced in the province. As a 


* ibid, 
ibid. p.25. 

Telephone interview with Linda White, Alberta Department of Energy, September 9, 1997. 
" Minerals Management Service. 1997 Royalty in Kind Feasibility Study. August 1997. p. 




289 


CRS-ll 

result, oil producers were concerned that their oil might end up in storage while Crown oil 
was in the market. Storage and pipeline capacity was added, alleviating the problem. 

After a major restructuring in 1994, the APMC’s responsibilities were limited to 
activities directly related to crude oil marketing. As a policy matter, the government wished 
to get out of the business of marketing oil and, at the start of 1996, the Alberta Department 
of Energy (ADOE) contracted with three marketing entities to market the Crown’s oil. 

Current Alberta RIK System. The three private firms selected to market Alberta’s 
royalty oil are Gulf Canada Resources Ltd., PanCanada Resources Ltd., and the CANPET 
Energy Group Inc. Selection criteria included the marketer’s expertise, a lack of affiliation 
or other relationship with a refinery (in Canada or the United States), and a willingness to 
commingle Crown crude with its own and market that oil on the same price basis. This last 
criterion was designed to assure that the producer expended the same effort on behalf of the 
Crown as it did on its own behalf to realize the highest prices. In fact, the companies 
selected are basically oil production companies with a strong marketing capability and have 
very limited involvement in other aspects of the petroleum industry. The marketers are paid 
5 cents per barrel for their services. ‘‘ 

Because of the limited local market for crude oil in Alberta, much production is moved 
to other markets via three pipeline systems. The InlerProvincial Pipeline moves crude to the 
mid-continent area, with an important terminal in Chicago. The Express pipeline moves oil 
due south, connecting to the Platte Pipeline System in the United States. Finally, the 
Transmountain Pipeline transports oil to the West Coast, offering access to refineries in 
British Columbia as well as to international markets. 


Table 3. Alberta Royalty Crude Sales 1994-7 


Year 

Sales 



(CS billions) 


1997 (Jan.-Julv) 

1.0 

36 

1996 

1.9 

71 

1995 

1.6 

72 

1994 

1.4 

66 


Source: Alberta DOE 

The Alberta DOE is proactive in matters relating to pipeline capacity and construction. 
It coordinates transport through pipelines, has effectively sought to relieve bottlenecks on the 
Interprovincial line, and has supported construction of both the Express and Transmountain 
systems. 


9 . 


Minerals Management Service. 1997 Royalty in Kind Feasibility Study. August 1997. p. 












290 


CRS-12 

With growing production — and increasii^ demand for Canadian crude in the United 
States — Alberta has sought to acquire rights to firm capacity on these facilities, thus 
guaranteeing access to broader markets offering liquidity, depth and world (in contrast to 
local) market prices. Table 3 shows 1994 to 19% royalty crude sales revenues. 

Based on such considerations as maximized government revenues and minimized 
administrative costs, and by the satisfaction expressed by most participants contacted for this 
report, the Alberta RIK program appears successful. While the provincial government’s 
involvement in the oil market may have caused concern among producers in the past, that 
situation apparently has eased. However, circumstances that have helped the Alberta 
program achieve its goals may not be present in all U.S. market segments. 

Texas RIK on State Lands 

The Texas General Land Office (GLO) takes about 45% of its oil and 37% of its gas 
production in kind from state leases. The GLO’s oil is sold at a sealed-bid auction at the 
royalty measurement point every six months. Under state law the GLO RIK gas program 
must provide gas to state facilities as an alternative to local utilities. The state sells about 1 
billion cubic feet per month from 1 00 slate leases in the Gulf of Mexico. The program has 
saved the state $10 million annually from decreased gas prices bypassing local utilities and 
increased revenues by $1 million annually for the state School Fund.*^ 

The General Land Office reported that its RIK program was not a cure-all for royalty 
valuation disputes, but that it could reduce royalty disputes and enhance revenues for the 
state government. The office notes that bids for RIK oil are at a premium over posted prices. 
Overall, the Texas GLO regards the RIK program as successful, and wants to double the 
amount of natural gas taken in kind.'^ 


" MMS 1997 RIK Study, op. cit. p. 8. 

Reid, Spencer. Senior Deputy Commissioner, Texas General Land Office. Testimony before 
the Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources, House Committee on Resources. July 31, 
1997. 



291 


2 


QucstiQiis.from Chairman Cubin 

1. In questions posed to MMS following the July 31, 1997 R-I-K hearing, I asked for a summary of 
the federal government’s cumulative costs associated with audit and enforcement of royalty 
obligations, including other Department of the Interior costs, such as the workload at the Office 
of Hearings and Appeals, and Justice Department resources spent in litigation on these issues. 
MMS did not provide this estimate, that I can see, in any of the follow-up answers received 
September 17, 1997. The Subcommittee would like to have this information in order to get a 
better handle on the real costs government- wide associated with the current valuation system. 

2. The Subcommittee intends to develop legislation to accomplish a successful R-I-K program. 

Your comments suggest no need for legislation, although you recognize that changes to current 
law are needed in order to allow states’ involvement, both onshore and in the 8(g). Are there 
other areas you recognize as requiring legislation? Are you willing to work with us to draft 
legislation to that end? 

3. In answering a follow-up question submitted by Representative Romero-Barcelo after the July 
31st hearing, and in Mr. Brown’s testimony, y<Hi outlined plans for the MMS to proceed on R-I- 
K. Specifically, you mention preparing detailed requirements, program strategies, and analysis of 
impacts. Please give us a time line associated with these tasks. 

4. The industry representatives I have spoken with indicate that aggregation of oil volumes would 
indeed enhance revenues. Is the MMS aware of this view? How did you determine that an oil R- 
I-K program won’t work, and, how many and what type of companies did you consult with to 
reach that conclusion? Please continue to investigate this issue and report the responses to the 
Subcommittee. 

5. In an offer to settle a case between private royalty owners and an integrated oil company, the 
transportation and overhead costs which were allowed are well above the Canadian allowance of 5 
cents (C$) per barrel. Do you have any knowledge of current transportation rates, or if US 
marketers would be willing to work for an equivalent to the Alberta program? Please explain the 
MMS’ view on marketing fees. Does the MMS recognize there are crude oil marketers in 
business today that make their profits purely from matching oil supplies with demand in the most 
cost-effective manner possible? 

6. In your response to questions following the July 31st hearing you refer to concerns about 
transportation away from the lease. Does the non-discriminatory access provision on pipelines 
provide a vehicle for reason^le rate access to lateral lines? Does this provision ^ply to all 
leases for intra-lease/field pipelines and to rights of way on the DCS for inter- lease pipelines? 
Does MMS have the authority to require the leaseholder and/or right of way owners to comply 
with the OeSLA requirements? Does the citizen suit provision of the OCSLA grant a right to the 
R-I-K marketer to insist on non-discriminatory access to non-jurisdictional pipelines? Would 
MMS consider as part of regulations promulgated under R-I-K a request that non-jurisdictional 
pipelines publicly declare their rates in order for MMS and/or its marketers of R-I-K product to 
assess transportation economics? 



292 


3 


Oueaions from Mr. Romero-Barrelil 

1. Mr. Brown, one of the concerns expressed by representatives of the petroleum industry relates to 
a phrase in the proposed rule suggesting that the lessee has a “duty to markef the product. How 
do you interpret this phrase, or, what does MMS mean by this? 

2. Currently, MMS does not allow lessees to deduct the costs of marketing oil and gas, or the costs 
associated with placing oil and gas “in a marketable condition.* Part of the rationale for 
supporting a “royalty-in-kind" proposal, is that the producer, or royalty payor, would be 
absolved of laying those costs. Instead, MMS would absorb the costs of aggregating, 
transportation, and the other costs associated with marketing oil and gas. Does the MMS agree 
with this part of the prf^xjsal? 

3. lire Alberta prr^ram exclmies bom consideration crude oil marketers who are affiliated with 
refiners. What is your opinion - should the U.S. Government also preclude such marketers? 

4. We note that MMS does not endorse widespread implementation of an “in-kind” program for 
crude oil. 

We also note that the response from the State of Texas to a question from Chairman Cubin, that, 
and I quote, “If the companies all paid royalties based upon the methodology accepted in the 
recent settlement [between Texas and Chevron], the R-I-K program would become more revenue 
neutral... The bottom line is that our state in-kin programs would not exist if royalty payments 
were based on the market value of oil.” 

What are the implications of this statement for Federal oil in-kind programs? 

5. Mr. Brown, we appreciate the lengths to which MMS has gone to accommodate the petroleum 
industry’s concerns about the proposed crude oil valuation rule. However, we believe it is 
important to amend the existing rule so that MMS does not rely on “posted prices" for 
determining the value. Can you assure the Subcommittee that the MMS will complete the 
rulemaking process and not allow it to languish? 

7. Mr. Linden's testimony maintains a fallacy about the crude oil regulation currently under 

development. The industry, for obvious reasons, would like people to believe that the proposed 
rule would require all royalty valuations to be based on the New York Mercantile Exchange 
(NYMEX) index — which would requite net backs that would - if true — be un&ir and difficult 
to accomplish for some producers. 

However, the proposed rule maintains the use of “gross proceeds" in all arms-length sales and 
suggests use of the NYMEX as a benchmark in only a few instances. Please, for die secwd, 
clarify this issue. 



293 



United States Department of the Interior 

MINERALS MANAGEMENT SERVICE 

WwHington, DC 20240 

OCT 23 1997 


EXSHE: MESSEM.GEK 


Honorable Don Young 
Chairman, Comminee on Resources 
House of Representatives 
Washington, D.C. 20515 

Dear Mr. Chairman: 

I am pleased to enclose responses to questions submitted to the Minerals Management Service as 
follotvup to the September 18, 1997, hearing on Royalty-in-Kind issues. 

Thank you for the opportunity to provide this material to the Committee, ■ If you have any 
further questions or need additional information, please let us know. 

Sincerely, 



Cynthia Quarterman 
Director 


Enclosure 

cc: Honorable George Miller, Senior Democratic Member, Full Committee 

^Honorable Barbara Cubin, Chairman, Subconunittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 
Honorable Carlos Romero-Barcelo, Senior Democratic Member, Subcommittee on 
Energy and Mineral Resources 



294 


ROYALTY IN KIND HEARINGS-SEPTEMBER 18, 1997 
FOLLOW-UP QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS 


Questions from Uhairman Gubin 


1. In questions posed to MMS fallowing the July 31, 1997 R-I-K hearing, I asked for a 
summary of the federal government’s cumulative costs associated with audit and 
enforcement of royalty obligations, including other Department of the Interior costs, 
such as the workload at the Office of Hearings and Appeals, and Justice 
Department resources spent in litigation on these issues. MMS did not provide this 
estimate, that 1 can see, in any of the follow-up answers received September 17, 

1997. The Subcommittee would like to have this information in order to get a better 
handle on the real costs government-wide associated with the current valuation 
system. 

The Department’s costs for audit and enforcement of royalty obligations total 
approximately $28 million for FY97. This itKiudes Royalty Management Program audit 
and enforcement costs of about $26 million. Interior Board of Land Appeals costs of 
$ 1 50 thousand. Office of the Solicitor costs of $400 thousand, and MMS Appeals 
Division costs of $ 1 .3 million. As you may know, litigation on behalf of the Department 
of the Interior is handled by the Department of Justice. We are not in a position to 
provide the Department of Justice costs associated with litigating the issues. It is our 
understanding, however, that the Department of Justice does not routinely calculate the 
costs of individual cases, and therefore does not keep records in the form you request. 

We caution that even under the best-designed R-I-K program not all litigation costs 
would disappear. Litigation cost savings would depend on the type and scope of oil or 
gas R-I-K programs implemented, and litigation costs would continue for Indian, solid, 
and geothermal minerals that are not taken in kind. Further, expected reductions in 
auditing costs would be deferred for at least six years as auditors complete reviews of 
prior periods. 


2. The Subcommittee intends to develop legislation to accomplish a successful R-I-K 
program. Your comments suggest no need for legislation, although you recognize 
that changes to current law are needed in order to allow states’ involvement, both 
onshore and in the 8(g). Are there other areas you recognize as requiring 
legislation? Are you willing to work with us to draft legislation to that end? 

We maintain that we do not need any legislation to accomplish a successful RIK program 
at this time. We believe that by cooperatively working with States and industry we can 
create a successful program that is in the best interest of the Government, as well as 
create benefits to States and producers. We do not need legislation to have States’ 
involvement in any RIK program and will work with them to define their involvement. 



295 


We maintain RIK legislation is premature. After our detailed analysis of the proposed 
pilots is complete, we will suggest any legislation that we deem necessary to implement 
RIK to the mutual benefit of the States, industry and the Federal Government. 

3. In answering a follow-up question submitted by Representative Komero-Barceld 
after the July 31st hearing, and in Mr. Brown’s testimony, you outlined plans for 
the MMS to proceed on R-I-K. Specifieally, you mention preparing detailed 
requirements, program strategies, and analysis of impacts. Please give us a time line 
associated with these tasks. 

We are establishing an implementation team which will define a detailed time line, after 
consultation with affected States and producers. Overall, we anticipate that the Wyoming 
oil pilot will take up to 12 months, and a potential offshore gas program would need up to 
24 months. 


4. The industry representatives I have spoken with indicate that aggregation of oil 
volumes would enhance revenues. Is the MMS aware of this view? How did you 
determine that an oil R-I-K program won’t work, and, how many and what type of 
companies did you consult with to reach that conclusion? Please continue to 
investigate this issue and report the responses to the Subcommittee. 

We did not conclude that an oil RIK program won’t work, as evidenced by our 
willingness to work with the State of Wyoming, oil producers, and oil purchasers to 
develop an RIK pilot. We have concerns that if not properly constructed an oil RIK 
program could reduce revenues. Over the course of our Feasibility Study, we consulted 
with over 250 representatives of independent producers, major affiliated producers, small 
purchasers, non-affiliated marketers (mid-sized and the largest in the country) and 
integrated refiners. The consensus view is that offshore production contains a wide 
variety of crude oil qualities and types. Most purchasers of crude are looking for specific 
crude types to meet their refining needs at a given time. Offering all offshore crudes 
together in one lot limits the ability to meet tiiese specific needs. Aggregation, therefore 
may only provide value up to a point. Any RIK program developed by the Federal 
Government needs to find that point where value is provided by both aggregation and 
detailed marketing of specific cmdes. Those suggesting an oil RIK program could be 
revenue positive were found to compare potential revenues against lease values reflecting 
posted prices which tend to underestimate the proper royalty value of oil. 


2 



296 


5. In an offer to settle a case between private royalty owners and an integrated oil 

company, the transportation and overhead costs which were allowed are well above 
the Canadian allowance of 5 cents (C$) per barrel. Do you have any knowledge of 
current transportation rates, or if US marketers would be willing to work for an 
equivalent to the Alberta program? Please explain the MMS’ view on marketing 
fees. Does tbe MMS recognize there are crude oil marketers in business today that 
make their profits purely from matching oil supplies with demand in the most cost- 
effective manner possible? 

Some marketers we talked to indicated marketing fees far in excess of the Alberta fee. 
Regardless, we see any fee as being a part of the contracting function and being subject to 
negotiation or part of the selection criteria in choosing a marketer. While we recognize 
there are crude oil marketers who earn profits by cost-effectively matching supply and 
demand, we note that the number of marketers is shrinking. Producing companies, 
increasingly developing their own marketing capabilities, have made it an increasingly 
competitive market. The resulting reduction in arbitrage opportunities and thin trading 
margins suggest that any revenue gains at the margin may be offset by additional costs. 


In your response to questions following the July 31st hearing you refer to concerns 
about transportation away from tbe lease. Does the non-discriminatory access 
provision on pipelines provide a vehicle for reasonable rate access to lateral lines? 
Does this provision apply to all leases for intra-lease/field pipelines and to rights of 
way on the OCS for inter-lease pipelines? Does MMS have the authority to require 
the leaseholder and/or right of way owners to comply with the OCSLA 
requirements? Does the citizen suit provision of the OCSLA grant a right to the 
R-I-K marketer to insist on non-discriminatory access to non-jurisdictional 
pipelines? Would MMS consider as part of regulations promulgated under R-I-K a 
request that non-jurisdictional pipelines publicly declare their rates in order for 
MMS and/or its marketers of R-I-K product to assess transportation economics? 

These questions are complex and require careful analysis before we can answer them. .At 
this time, technical experts in our Offshore Minerals Management Program and the Office 
of the Solicitor are researching the domain of MMS’s jurisdiction over 
non-discriminatory access and ratemaking for offshore pipelines. As you are probably 
aware, issues regarding ratemaking have historically been under the exclusive jurisdiction 
of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). We will provide you the results 
of our analysis as soon as it is available. 


3 



297 


Questions from Mr. Ro mero-Barcelo 


1. Mr. Brown, one of the concerns expressed by representatives of the petroleum 
industry relates to a phrase in the proposed rule suggesting that the lessee has a 
“duty to market” the product. How do you interpret this phrase, or, what does 
MMS mean by this? 

The MMS interprets “duty to market” as the implied duty of Federal lease terms to 
market crude oil production for the mutual benefit of the lessee and lessor. “Duty to 
market” thus ineludes the lessees obligation to get the best possible price for the lease 
production. It does not mean the lessee must market its production at a distant point 
such as Cushing, Oklahoma. It is not true, as industry would suggest, that the “duty to 
markef ’ language in the currently-proposed oil valuation mle represents a new concept. 
Various court cases over the years have upheld the notion that the lessee must market to 
the mutual benefit of both itself and the lessor. 


2. Currently, MMS does not allow lessees to deduct the costs of marketing oil and gas, 
or the costs associated with placing oil and gas “in a marketable condition.” Part of 
the rationale for supporting a “royalty-in-kind” proposal, is that the producer, or 
royalty payor, would be absolved of paying those costs. Instead, MMS would 
absorb the costs of aggregating, transportation, and the other costs associated with 
marketing oil and gas. Does the MMS agree with this part of the proposal? 

We agree that MMS would be required to absorb the cost of marketing oil and gas, as you 
suggest. Under the terms of the lease, the royalty owner does not incur these costs when 
paid in value. The concept behind taking product in kind is that it would be in the best 
interest of the lessor to market for itself. When the royalty is paid in kind, generally the 
producer’s responsibility ends prior to marketing. However, the producer would still be 
required to deliver the royalty portion in marketable condition. 


3. The Alberta program excludes from consideratiou crude oil marketers who are 
affiliated with refiners. What is your opinion-should the U.S. Government also 
preclude such marketers? 

This is an important issue on which we have not yet formed an opinion. Alberta has few 
refiners and few local markets. Thus, this requirement doesn’t appear to exclude many 
from bidding on the oil. In many parts of the U.S. we ate concerned that such an 
exclusion would eliminate most of the potential bidders for our oil, reducing the 
competition that we seek. However, we recognize that including fully integrated refiners 
may also raise competitiveness issues. 


4 



298 


4. We note that MMS does not endorse widespread implementation of an ”in-kind'^ 
program for crude oil. 

We also note that the response from the State of Texas to a question from Chairman 
Cubin, that, and 1 quote, *^lf the companies all paid royalties based upon the 
methodology accepted in the recent settlement [between Texas and Chevron], the 
R>I-K program would become more revenue neutral...The bottom line is that our 
state in kind programs would not exist if royalty payments were based on the 
market value of oil.” 

What are the implications of this statement for Federal oil in>kind programs? 

Texas’ statement concerning revenue summarizes our position concerning oil RIK. The 
regulatory solution to oil valuation we have proposed reflects the market value to which 
Texas speaks. Most RIK solutions offered to date require the royalty owner to incur costs 
that are not incurred when paid in value. Our study questions whether an oil RIK 
program can provide additional value to overcome these additional costs. One purpose of 
the proposed oil RIK pilot is to see if we can answer this important question. 


5. Mr. Brown, we appreciate the lengths to which MMS has gone to accommodate the 
petroleum industry’s concerns about the proposed crude oil valuation rule. 
However, we believe it is important to amend the existing rule so that MMS does not 
rely on **posted prices” for determining the value. Can you assure the 
Subcommittee that the MMS will complete the rulemaking process and not allow it 
to languish? 

First, let me assure you that the proposed rule does not rely on posted prices in any way 
for the royalty valuation of Federal crude oil, and we believe we are moving as quickly as 
possible given this complicated issue. 

As you know, MMS published a proposed rule on January 24, 1997. The public 
comment period ended May 28, 1997, with the rule generating over 2,500 pages of 
comments. Based on feedback received during the comment period, MMS made certain 
modifications and published a supplemental proposed rule on July 3, 1997. Comments 
were due by August 4, 1997. Again, MMS received substantial comments. 

Some of the comments on the proposed and supplemental proposed rules suggested 
alternative valuation methods. On September 22, 1997, MMS reopened the comment 
period to receive input on these alternatives and other new suggestions. Due to additional 
concerns from the public, MMS decided to extend the comment period again, until 
November 5, 1997. 


5 



299 


In conjunction with the reopened comment period, MMS scheduled seven workshops to 
get further input on the valuation alternatives. Two of these workshops--in Denver and 
Houston-were held on September 30, October 1, and October 7-8, 1997, respectively. 
Participants included State and industry representatives, and the public was invited to 
attend. The third workshop, to get input on the valuation alternatives from the general 
public, was held in Houston on October 14, 1997. Three other workshops were held in 
Bakersfield, California, and Casper, Wyoming, on October 16, 1997, and Roswell, New 
Mexico, on October 21, 1997. These three workshops were intended to summarize for 
independent oil producers the contents of the proposed rule and the valuation alternatives 
and to receive their comments. A final workshop was held in Washington, D.C. on 
October 27, 1997, and was open to the general public. 

Once the comment period ends on November 5, 1 997, MMS intends to review the written 
comments received, together with input from the workshops, and issue a further proposed 
rule for public comment. After addressing comments received on the further proposed 
rule, MMS intends to develop a final rule as quickly as possible. 


6. Mr. Linden’s testimony maintains a fallacy about the crude oil regulation currently 
under development. The industry, for obvious reasons, would like people to believe 
that the proposed rule would require all royalty valuations to be based on the New 
York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) index-which would require net backs that 
would-if true-be unfair and difficult to accomplish for some producers. 

However, the proposed rule maintains the use of “gross proceeds” in all arms-length 
sales and suggests use of the NYMEX as a benchmark in only a few instances. 
Please, for the record, clarify this issue. 

The proposed rule permits royalty payments based on “gross proceeds” wherever true 
arm’s-length sales occur. It is true, however, that the rule as currently proposed defines 
which transactions may be considered arm’s length. The supplementary proposed rule 
substantially expands the circumstances under which payors could use gross proceeds. 
Under the supplementary proposed rule, payors would pay on gross proceeds except 
when: (1) their contract does not reflect the total consideration received for the 
production, (2) they breach their duty to market to the mutual benefit of the lessee and 
lessor, (3) they refine or sell their oil to an affiliated refiner, (4) they dispose of oil under 
a non-arm’s length exchange agreement or under multiple exchange agreements, (5) they 
maintain an overall balance with their purchaser, or (6) they sell their oil under the 
exercise of a noncompetitive crude oil call. Based on input from the workshops 
described in question 5, the ongoing rulemaking process will further define the specific 
cases where royalties are payable based on gross proceeds. 


6 



300 


2 


Questions from Chairman Cuhin 

1 . The fourth point on page 3 of your written testimony implies that States which opt to take 
their share of the royalties owed in-kind would get a better deal than those that accept their 
share in-value, even when the value was obtained via sale of federal R-I-K product. Do you 
believe this should be the case for coastal States with OCS Sec. 8 (g) revenues, as well? How 
would you propose that MMS handle R-I-K on federal acquired lands leases where typically 
the revenue split is 25% to the state or local government rather than 50%? 

Questions from Mr. Romero-Barcelil 

1. The State of Wyoming recently offered to sell its state royalty oil by competitive bid. We 
understand that the results of the bidding process were not positive. Please explain why that 
R-I-K effort failed. 

2. The State of Wyoming’s severance and ad valorem taxes are applied to a large volume of 
oil and gas within the State. We understand that if Wyoming were to take its severance and ad 
valorem taxes in kind on that volume, it would equal approximately the same amount of 
product MMS would take in kind under its federal leases. Together, this would be a 
significant amount of oil and gas and would create market leverage that Wyoming’s producers 
certainly do not have today. What is your opinion of such an endeavor? 

3. Director Quarterman’s written testimony suggests that MMS is willing to develop a pilot 
R-I-K project with Wyoming. Is the State of Wyoming willing to work closely with the MMS 
and form a joint team to identify and develop a mutually beneficial R-I-K program? 

4. Do you believe an R-I-K program would have to be completely mandatory? 

5. You stated that the States must have the option of taking their 50 percent share of gross 
receipts to market themselves. In a market such as Wyoming, with scattered leases, would 
that be cost effective? And, would you run the risk of diminishing the market power gained 
by aggregating a substantial volume of oil and gas? 



301 


2 


Questions from Mr. Romero-Barrplrt 

1. In the past you testified in support of the Royalty Fairness Act, which President Clinton 
signed into law last summer. The Congress went to some trouble and expense to enact that 
new law — largely at the oil and gas industry’s insistence — and over the initial objections of 
the MMS. 

The new law is supposed to make the royalty management program work better; in fact the 
MMS has spent a good deal of time and taxpayers money changing its rules and policies to 
accommodate the new law. 

So it is disconcerting to hear you suggest that we replace it — essentially discard the entire 
program — with this radical idea to move the government into the oil business. Help us 
understand why the changes made by the Royalty Fairness Act, just last year, are not 
sufficient. 

2. During the hearing, you said the Royalty Fairness Act changed the procedures of the 
royalty management program, and that the R-I-K proposal was about something else entirely. 
What procedures currently operative (or scheduled to go in effect pursuant to the Royalty 
Fairness Actjin the royalty management program would still be operative if R-I-K were 
implemented as you recommend? 

3. Mr. Nichols, we understand that the Province of Alberta in Canada reports only marginally 
positive revenues from its R-I-K program in which marketers sell Crown oil. We understand 
that this increment results from taking crude oil from remote areas with few refineries and low 
demand to areas of higher concentration of refineries and refining demand. Why do you 
believe that the same dynamic could work for the U.S. Gulf of Mexico crude oil or gas? 

4. All of the major oil producers are missing from the list of organizations that you 
represented at the hearing. With their complex marketing and affiliated companies, they 
would appear to have the largest administrative savings from a simplified R-I-K program. 

How do they perceive the R-I-K program? Please name the major oil companies that have 
endorsed your proposal. 

5. Another law recently enacted authorized the federal government to “get out” of the oil 
business by assigning development and production responsibilities to a private company. This 
situation, at Elk Hills, is as you know, not without controversy. Do you see any inconsistency 
in moving the federal government out of Elk Hills and other areas where the private sector is 
at least equally capable of doing the job, and an R-l-K program that would, as Chairman 
Cubin and Rep. Thomberry favor, get the MMS into the oil market? 

6. If MMS were to implement R-I-K, would Devon Energy qualify or compete for one of the 
marketing contracts? 



302 


OucstioDS from Chairman Cubin 

1 . Wliat are the requirements of your programs for Slate lessees to deliver product in 
marketable condition? 

In general, our leases require the lessee to deliver the product without deduction for the 
cost of producing, gathering, storing, scparaling, treating, dehydrating, compressing, 
processing, transporting, and otherwise nvaking the product ready tor sale or use. 

2. What is the magnitude of cost savings for Texas by requiring lessees in your coastal 
waters to deliver R-T-K oil and gas to an onshore facility point? Has this always been a 
requirement of Texas law? If not, did competition for coastal leases diminish when it was 
added? 

With reference to the answer to question number one, the lessee is only required to make 
the product ready for sale or use which docs not necessarily mean delivery to an onshore 
f ac ility In some instances the gas is ready for sale at the platform . In fact, we are taking 
delivery of some m-kind gas volumes offshore, ihe agency s royalty policy has always 
been to be paid on gross value of production without deductions. Clearly the stale reaps 
the benefit of the lease terms disallowing deductions to the point of delivery but we do 
not maintain records on items not deducted. However, we estimate cost savings as 
several million dollars per year. 

3 . The wTitien testimony of MMS mentions a recent settlement between GLO and an 
integrated oil coinpanv on a valuation dispute, and concludes that the oil R-l-K program 
in your State may no longer be as “revenue-positive. ’ One benefit T see of having an R-I- 
K program is that R-I-K .sales provide another measure of value agaiirst which to compare 
those leases which at still paying in-value rather than in-kind, for one reason or another. 

A truth serum, so to speak. How would you chaiactcriice the eil'ect of the settlement 
which MMS mention-s? 

'Ve agree there is a benefit of comparing the R-I-K. revenue to the value paid by the 
producer, in fact, one factor in our pursuing the oil valuation suit was the premiums we 
were reccivin»£ in our in-kind sales. However, we cannot assume that the proceeds of 
such sales equal market value. Tlic superior marketing expertise of the major oil 
companies will likely yield a higlicr price. Immediately alter the filing oi the suit, 
postings in general rose dramatically If the companies all paid royalties based upon the 
methodology accepted in the recent settlement, the RIK program would become more 
revenue neutral, consequently we will continue to monitor the program to be sure it is 
cost effective. The bottom line is that oui state in-kind oil program would not exist if 
royalty payments were based on the market value of oil. 

Questions from Mr. Romereo-Barcclu 

1. Has the Texas RIK. oil program been over time a revenue enhancer? What have the 
recent trends been in the revenue results of oil RIK in Texas? Have you seen any 
lessening of revenues with respect to posted juices or market indices? 

I 


9/2/97 



303 


Stale revenue has been enhanced through ihc oil program in the amount $5 million since 
1988. Since the early '905 vve have experienced some decreases in revenue enhancement. 
In addition, since the announcement of the oil lawsuit in July ‘95 we have seen changes 
in postings for Yates Field.. Ihe month following the lawsuit the margin between 
Marathon’s posting and Exxon’s (RIK. purchaser) decreased to the point where the 
contract started losing money. The contract was eventually re-bid to a new pinchaser 
which resulted in positive earnings. 

2. Texas has made a settlement with a large producer [Chevron] on valuation for royally 
purposes. How does the seltleinent price compare with what you receiving on your RIK 
oil sales? 

See our response to Chairman Cubin’s question number three. 

3. Since the inception of the direct gas marketing program to state facilities, have tlie local 
distribution companies accepted the challenge of competition? Arc they now' providing 
more competitive rates to the facilities? Has your margin or markup on the price you 
charge ilic facilities decreased as a result of any such competition? 

Tlie gas industry has changed alot since we first implemented the agency program in 
1985. Local distribution companies (LDC) now compete for customers by supplying gas 
from their marketing affiliates and transporting the same through their distribution lines. 
Some LDCs are more progressive than others but in general we have seen a reduction in 
the local retail rates wjiich has caused us to lower our rates to ihe agencies. 

4 Does Texas get u premium on the RTK oil it takes as in-kind payment from Marathon’s 
Yates iicld when it sells the oil? 

Over the last two contracts periods (12 months) Yates Field has received an average 
premium of $.45 resulting in $361,145 revenue enhancement. Results of the current 
contract will not be known until the contract terminates in November. 

5. Do you believe a RIK would have to be completely mandatory? 

We do not believe the RIK program should be mandatojy. The program should be driven 
by economic factors. It is reasonable to take the product in -kind if it will result in more 
revenue. There may be a number of practical limitations that influence whether it is 
cost-effective to take royalty in-kind. In our experience, it is unrealistic to believe that 
100% of all production could be taken in-kind. We consider several factors when 
selecting leases for in-kind purposes. In our end-user gas program, we not only look at 
the current value of the gas but wc also consider the quantity of the production, what 
pipeline is transporting, and cost of transportation to the customer when selecting a lease. 
For oil, the main consideration is whether we will make more revenue through the 
bidding process. The volume of production is also a factor in the oil program. We 
generally do not take oil in-kind if the production of the well is less than 1 0 barrels per 
day. 


9/2/97 


2 



304 


6. Is the Texas program mandatory'? 

No. Please see the response to question number five for more details. 

7. if MMS were to implement an RIK program, what role would Texas play? Would Texas 
participate only as far as the g(g) lea.ses go? How much revenue do these leases generate? 
Would it be co.st effective for Texas and MMS to take royalty in kind on these leases? 

Texas continues its interest in receiving 8(g) gas in-kind, including our interest in 
forming an agreement with MMS to sell both parties' in-kind gas as one package from 
respective leases. For the federal fiscal year 1996, Texas received $9.2 million from 
MMS for the 8(g) leases. We believe it would be cost effective for Texas to take its share 
of gas in-kind. 

S. MMS citrrently has the authority to take royalty in kind “on demand. Has lexasever 

considered asking MMS about developing an RJK for its 8(g) leases? If so, what was the 
MMS response? If not, why not? 

Texas has generally explored the concept with MMS but the response has been 
lukewarm. 


9/2/97 


3 



305 


1. In the past you testified in support of the Royalty Fairness Act, which 
President Clinton signed into law last summer. The Congress went to 
some trouble and expense to enact that new law~largely at the oil and gas 
industry’s insistence-and over the initial objections of the MMS. 

The new law is supposed to make the royaity management program work 
better; in fact the MMS has spent a good deal of time and taxpayers money 
changing its rules and policies to accommodate the new law. 

So it is disconcerting to hear you suggest that we replace it ~ essentialiy 
discard the entire program ~ with this radical idea to move the government 
into the oii business. Help us understand why the changes made by the 
Royalty Fairness Act, just last year, are not sufficient. 

No one is suggesting that we discard the Royalty Fairness Act (“Act"). No one is 
suggesting that we move the government into the oii and gas business. We are 
merely continuing the process we started with the Act. The MMS also 
recognizes that the re-engineering process needs to continue. The MMS 
recently proposed discarding their entire method of valuing oil for royalty 
calculation purposes. The industry simply believes that Royalty In Kind (“RIK") 
may be a much better method that can generate more royalty revenue to the 
government at less cost to both the government and the industry. 

I believe that re-engineering royalty collections is a two step process. Over $4 
billion of royalty revenues are flowing into the Treasury each year. The Act, with 
or without RIK, was needed to immediately improve antiquated and burdensome 
royalty accounting practices. The Act prevented taxpayer dollars from being 
spent on unneeded bureaucratic processes. The Act accomplished this by 
implementing sound accounting practices such as a statute of limitations, 
expedited appeals process, leveling the playing field for overpayments and 
associated interest, delineating liable parties, eliminating unne^ed steps for 
marginal wells and delegating more responsibilities to states. Without the Act, 
taxpayers would not being receiving their royalty dollars sooner. 

The Act reformed MMS’ accounting practices. It did not reform MMS' core 
business practice of determining if the proper amount of royalties have been 
paid to the government. A valuation system that is currently fraught with dispute 
and uncertainty, as evidenced by MMS’ recent decision to pull its proposed rule 
on gas valuation and issuance of a highly complex proposed rule on oil 
valuation. The Act did not address valuation matters. To do this, one must start 
with a blank piece of paper to determine how best to design a valuation system 
that is efficient, does not promote disputes, and honor lease terms and 
requirements. 



306 


As the Committee will recall, early versions of the Act contained RIK language. 
This language was eliminated from the Act due to the Senate Byrd rule, not due 
to the desires of industry nor MMS. All parties agreed, as indicated in testimony 
delivered by industry and MMS during the 104th Congress, RIK remained a 
viable alternative for complete reform of the royalty payment system. The 
language contained in the original drafts of the bill would have provided MMS 
much more authority to pursue a new complete new approach to royalty 
collections. At that time, no one was arguing that RIK provisions somehow 
negated the needed for the rest of the Act. 

All we are doing today, is picking up from were we left off during the 104th 
Congress. Industry, MMS and states are pursuing RIK as a possible solution to 
ongoing disputes regarding vaiuation. In the meantime, as we pursue this re- 
engineering effort, the government is performing its royalty accounting practices 
in a much more efficient and cost-effective manner. 

2. During the hearing, you said the Royalty Fairness Act changes the 
procedures of the royalty management program, and that the RIK proposal 
was about something else entirely. What procedures currently operative 
(or scheduled to go in effect pursuant to the Royalty Fairness Act) in the 
royalty management program would still be operative if RIK were 
implemented as you recommend? 

Even if a nationwide RIK program is implemented, some royalty payments are 
likely. For very marginal wells and/or extremely remote locations, RIK may not 
be practical, and the lessee is likeiy to have to continue to submit a royalty 
payment. Anytime a royalty payment is submitted to the government, all of the 
provisions of the Act will apply. 

However, if all cash payments for royalties are eliminated through an RIK 
program, many of the provisions of the Act will still apply. Delivering royalty 
volumes to the government is an obligation as defined under the Act. For any 
obligation, matters such as a statute of limitations, appeals, and liability will 
apply. For over- and underbalances in a given month, one option may include a 
cash-out, as is done in the market place today. With a cash-out, money will 
move between the lessee and the government. With exchange of cash, many of 
the provisions of the Act will apply, especially with regard to refunds and 
interest. The Act is compatible with RIK. 

The marginal well provision of the Act will be critical for future RIK efforts. This 
provision provided flexibility for managing royalty payments in a cost-effective 
manner. As RIK is considered for marginal properties, this provision could help 
provide the necessary authority to allow for alternative systems that are more 
cost effective for the taxpayer. 



307 


3. Mr. Nichols, we understand that the Province of Alberta in Canada 
reports only marginally positive revenues from its RIK program in which 
marketers sell Crown oil. We understand that this increment results from 
taking crude oil remote areas with few refineries and low demand to areas 
of higher concentration of refineries and refining demand. Why do you 
believe that the same dynamic could work for the U.S. Gulf of Mexico crude 
oil or gas? 

This is not my understanding of the Canadian program. When compared to 
royalties that would have been paid, the program has resulted in increased 
revenues at a much lower cost. Be it a marginal increase or not, it is an increase 
of revenue and a lower cost to the taxpayer. This should be the goal of all 
government programs. 

I have attended a couple of presentations from representatives from the Alberta 
RIK program. They state that their increased revenues has resulted due to 
aggregation of volumes and combining their crude with production streams that 
are already being marketed. 

These latter two conditions hold much promise for the Gulf of Mexico. For the 
Gulf of Mexico, the MMS royalty volumes are competitive with some of the 
largest producers of oil or gas in the Gulf of Mexico. By aggregating these 
volumes, MMS will realize market power. In fact, the volumes are so centrally 
located, these benefits should resolve concerns you may have about not 
realizing uplift by moving production to more actively markets. Additionally, if 
MMS combines its production with the production of competitively selected 
marketers, even more benefit may be realized. It is a false conclusion to say 
because the crude is being moved in a different market, the MMS can't be 
successful in the Gulf of Mexico. 

4. All of the major oil producers are missing from the list of organizations 
that you represented at the hearing. With their complex marketing and 
affiliated companies, they would appear to have the largest administrative 
savings from a simplified RIK program. How do the perceive the RIK 
program? Please name the major oil companies that have endorsed your 
proposal. 

To date, a number of associations including the American Petroleum Institute, 
Mid-Continent Oil and Gas Association and the Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas 
Association, representing most of the major oil companies, support the six RIK 
principles. By having these types of associations endorsing the RIK principles, 
eliminates the need to individually list any major company. All producers, majors 
and independents, believe that through a properly designed program, RIK will 
certainly create significant administrative efficiency. 



308 


5. Another law recently enacted authorized the federal government to “get 
out” of the oil business by assigning development and production 
responsibilities to a private company. This situation, at Elk Hills, is as you 
know, not without controversy. Do you see any inconsistency in moving 
the federal government out of Elk Hills and other areas where the private 
sector is at least equally capable of doing the job, and an RIK program that 
would, as Chairman Cubin and Rep. Thomberry favor, get the MMS in to the 
oil market? 

You discuss Elk Hills as an effort to get the government out of the oil business 
by moving these responsibilities to the private sector. This is what we are doing 
with the pursuit of RIK, attempting to determine if there is a way to get the 
government out of the business of chasing federal molecules through the 
marketplace and trying to second guess market transactions. Our recommended 
RIK approach accomplishes this by requiring MMS to competitively contract its 
marketing activities with qualified third parties. In this way. we are essentially 
doing what you discuss in the Elk Hills situation, by “privatizing” the federal oil 
and gas royalty system. By competitively hiring a private company to do all the 
marketing, in no way is MMS entering into the oil and gas business. 

6. If MMS were to implement RIK, would Devon Energy qualify or compete 
for one of the marketing contracts? 

No, Devon would not qualify or compete for one of the marketing contracts. 



JIM GERINGER 

GOVERNOR 


STATE OF WYOMING 
OFFICE OF TIIE GOVERNOR 
August 26, 1997 


STATE CAPITOL BUILDING 

cheyknnh:. 'X'y 82002 


Dear Chairman Cubin: 

I appreciate the opportunity- which you provided to me to testify before the Subcommittee 
on Energy and Mineral Resources on the issue of Royalty In-Kind which 1 $ so important to the 
State of Wyoming. I am pleased to respond to the additional questions raised by you and by 
Representative Romero-Barcelo, 


Questions from Chaimua Cubin 

1. The fourth point on page 3 of your written testimony implies that States which 
t^t to take their share of the royalties owed in-kind would gel a better deal than those that accept 
their share in-vaJue, even when the value was retained via sale of federal R-I-K product. Do 
you believe this should be the case for costal Slates with OCS Sec. 8(g) revenues, as well? How 
would you propose that MMS handle R-I-K on federal acquired lands leases where typically the 
revenue split is 25% to the state or local government rather than 50%? 

Response: 

Coastal states with OCS Sec. 8(g) revenues who gel 27% of royalty income distribution 
could probably not significantly enhance value by marketing their own R-I-K share, assuming 
that the MMS costs for aggregation and marketing are competitive. Furthermore, it is my 
understanding that net revenue sharing cost deductions are not applicable to these royalties. 
However, these states could see net gains from a successful R-l-K program administered by 
MMS. 


Federal acquired lands with a 25% stale royalty share are subject to net revenue sharing 
costs. They could be handled just the same as other federal lands so long as the aggregated 
volumes are significant enough to be marketed efficiently. 


iYTrPN'nT r-OVERNOR^.MJ^SC <TaTE I'Y US • TELEPHONE 


• F.^X (50-?) 652-^909 


310 


Qu«stioas from Mr. Romero-Barceio: 

1. "nie State of Wyoming recently offered to sell its stale royalty oil by competitive 
bid. We understand that the results of the bidding process were not positive. Please explain 
why that R*I*K effort failed. 

Response: 

The State of Wyoming’s initial effort to market its royalty in-kind from State lands did 
not produce acceptable bids due to a lack of a significant volume at any single location. The 
State did not attempt aggr^ation, but we are now analyzing this option. 


2. The State of Wyoming’s severance and ad valorem taxes are applied to a large 
volume of oil and gas withing the state. We understand that if Wyoming were to take its 
severance and ad valorem taxes in kind on that volume, it would equal approximately the same 
amount of product MMS would take in kind under its federal leases. Together, this would be 
a significant amount of oil and gas and would create market leverage that Wyoming's producers 
certainly do not have today. What is your opinion of such an endeavor? 

Response: 

We have discussed the opportunity to significantly enhance volume by taking severance 
and ad valorem tax values in-kind. The ability of the State to market both state and federal R-I- 
K shares together with R-I-K tax shares would provide very significant market leverage. This 
would have to be accomplished through state statutory changes. In order to overcome current 
oil and gas valuation issues, such legislation would need to base taxes on a percentage of 
production by volume. While there are advantages in this approach, we favor implementation 
and successful operation of a R-I-K program for royally oil and gas before attempting to 
incorporate tax shares. 

3. Director Quarterman's written testimony suggests that MMS is willing to develop 
a pilot R-I-K project with Wyoming. Is the Slate of Wyoming willing to work closely with the 
MMS and form a joint team to identify and develop a mutually beneficial R-I-K program? 

Response: 

The State of Wyoming has expressed to MMS staff our willingness to participate on a 
joint team to identify and develop a mutually beneficial R-l-K program. We are currently 
awaiting release of the MMS R-I-K Study before formalizing our response to Director 
Quarterman. 



311 


4. Do you believe an R-I-K program would have to be completely mandatory? 

Response: 

An R-I-K program would have to be mandatory for the lessee to allow for the efficient 
aggregation and marketing of royalty production. At the same time, the MMS and/or state must 
be willing to commit to lake the full amount of royalty production from a given lease for a 
known period of time and with appropriate advance notice so as not to destabilize the marketing 
ability of producers. 


5. You staled that the States must have the cation of taking their 50% share of gross 
receipts to market themselves. In a market such as Wyoming, with scattered leases, would that 
be cost effective? And, would you run the risk of diminishing the market power gained by 
aggregating a substantial volume of oil and gas? 

Response: 

Wyoming would only be interested in exercising an option to market its own 50% share 
of in-kind royalty if the State determined this to be cost effective. In states with significant 
volumes of production a 50% share of gross receipts could provide significant marketable 
volumes. However, as stated in my testimony to the Subcommittee, an opportunity for a state 
to market the federal share as well would provide additional market power especially important 
to lower production states. 


Sincerely, 

Him Magagna, Director 
Office of State Lands and Investments 
and 

Federal Land Policy 



CONTINENTAL 


RESOURCES. INC. 


September 2, 1997 
Barbara Cubin 

Chairman, Subcommittee on Energy and Mineral Resources 
US. House of Representatives 
Committee on Resources 
Washington, DC 20515 

Dear Chairman Cubin: 

Enclosed are my responses to the questions by you and Representative Romero-Barcelo Thank 
you for giving me the opportunity to testily before you and your committee It was an 
experience I will never forget If you have additional questions you wish to ask me, please feel 
&ee to do so. 1 will do my best in responding accurately and promptly 1 apologize for the lack of 
promptness in these responses 


Sincerely. 



Sue Ann Hamm 


302 N. ladepcadcncc 
P.O. Bvi 1032 Enid, Oklahoma 73702 
(40S) 233-OOSS 




313 


QUESTIONS FROM CHAIRMAN CUBIW 

Question 1. Do you think, given the great geographic diversity of federal royalty 
production, that R-I-K can be accomplished for ail oil producing areas? 

Yes, if a company as small as ours can take its oil from one thousand leases, which have 
significant geographic diversity, and market downstream, then the Federal Government can do so 
also for its twenty-five thousand leases. Someone is already marketing this oil m some manner. 
There is no reason the Federal Government could not take over this function, through a 
marketing agent, and be very successful. 

Question 2. You and your company obviously are in business by taking risks which the 
MMS appears unwilling to incur if the government’s share is marketed. Could you briefly 
elaborate for the record how Continental Resources profits from its “marketing” of crude 
oil? 


1. Reduce costs to move the oil to market : 

The most important act we do, to maximize the net value of our oil downstream, is to reduce the 
total cost to place it at a downstream market. Holding transportation costs low is a key element 
to reducing total costs As I mentioned in my oral testimony, sometimes we have had to build 
pipelines to lower our transportation costs. This is a risk in that we are not assured of making a 
return on investment. As is common knowledge, anything can happen to the production of a well. 
Without the anticipated production, payout of the pipeline is unlikely to occur. Aggregating as 
large a volume as possible with individual transporters is also a way we are sometimes able to 
reduce transportation costs Often the transporters’ rates are lower if they are assured of a larger 
volume to transport. 

A risk we take which can, if not reduce costs, then at least stabilize the costs to place the oil at a 
downstream market, is to lock in on exchange differentials Many call this a risk, however, I feel 
more comfortable knowing ahead our costs to place the oil at a downstream market. We try to 
keep focused on what we will make, rather than looking back, after the fact, and counting what 
we could have made. 

7 Maximize value of the oil: 

Beyond reducing the costs to move the oil to market, we look for ways to enhance the value of 
the oil once it is at a downstream market. We do this by aggregating our volumes where at all 
possible. We can attract more buyers with a larger volume Since this increases competition, we 
have greater opportunities for increasing our price We also attempt to maximize the value of the 
oil by researching buyers and their current needs, the different methods of selling the physical 
crude, and these methods current relationships to one another. To give an example, sometimes 
the Posting Plus market yields more than the NYMEX “market on close.” We watch these 
numbers daily, discover which yields the highest numbers for that day, and sell accordingly. 


1 



314 


Question 3. Can R-I-K accomplish administi^tive cost savings over the present valuation 
program? And can it enhance revenue to all concerned? 

Without a doubt, administrative overhead will be lower with R-I-K. It takes a fraction of the 
people to market minerals that it takes to audit ail the producers who are doing the marketing 
now. Look at the Alberta, Canada program, which employs thirty three (33) people to market its 
one hundred forty-six thousand (146,000) barrels of oil a day. This volume is very similar to the 
Federal Government’s, which is two hundred four thousand (204,000) barrels of oil a day 

There are large oil companies in the United States with volumes in the hundreds of thousands of 
barrels. These oil companies employ comparatively small staffs to market their production. MMS 
employs approximately nine hundred fifty (950) people in its Revenue Management Program. I 
do not know of any oil company that employs any where near that many people in its oil and gas 
marketing departments. I would assume that these companies would staff their marketing 
departments with more people if it made economic sense That is, if the increased number of 
people could enhance revenue more than the increased costs of overhead. Evidently it does not. 

R-I-K should, at the very least, maintain a revenue neutral position for our government’s royalty 
oil and gas. With the proper program, and the results averaged over several years time, it has 
great possibility for increasing our government’s revenue. The reason this is so evident to me is 
that we have had success in marketing our own oil and gas. By taking control of the marketing of 
our oil and gas, by aggregation and by selling downstream, where at all possible, we have 
enhanced our revenue over the number it would have been if we had continued to sell at the lease. 


Questions from Mr. Romero-Barcelo’ 

1. Ms Hamm, it seems that if the federal government were to take its onshore oil 
production **in kind’’ and place it with a marketer/producer, that marketer/produccr would 
have more leverage than other marketer/producers to negotiate better prices on its own oil. 

From my experience, aggregating our volumes has enhanced the value of our oil. I believe that 
even more volumes would give us the opportunity to increase the value even more. I stress the 
word opportunity In answer, yes, a producer/markeier should have more leverage with 
additional crude oil. However, to assume that it automatically had more leverage than other 
marketer/producers would be erroneous, since possessing leverage would depend on the 
presence of various circumstances. Some situations resulting in leverage, or an advantage over 
others, would be ownership of transportation facilities such as pipelines and trucks, ownership of 
refineries, and marketing arrangements or transportation arrangements under favorable, long term 
contracts. None of these conditions necessarily involve a large volume of production. However, 
if there is an advantage, both the government and producer/marketer will benefit. This is why 
states like Texas have experienced an increase in revenue when volumes are taken-in-kind. 


2 



315 


What guarantee would there be that this marketer/producer would negotiate the federal 
government’s oil production at the same price it gets for its now-more-valuable product? 

By requiring the producer/marketer to commingle its production with the government’s 
production, just as Alberu, Canada’s government does, our government could be assured of 
receiving the same price as the producer/marketer receives. Our government would retain the 
right to audit this company to assure itself of the proper commingling and allocation of proceeds. 
Also, it would require copies of all marketing contracts and sales entered by the 
producer/marketer In this way, our government could stay current and informed on all marketinj 
arrangements. The auditing would, no doubt, be more comprehensive than is standard now. 
However, our government would have far fewer companies to audit, and, these companies would 
have consented to auditing by the terms of their marketing contract. 

Additionally, market factors will ensure our government receives a fair market price A 
producer/marketer will have to compete with others before selection as the government’s agent. 

2. How could the government be assured that the marketer was getting the best price? 
What safeguards would be necessary? For instance, the MMS suggests that the price be 
equal to a published price, such as the NYMEX. 

Our government should have high and competitive standards in choosing its agent. It should 
choose a producer/marketer with its own production delivered into the same market center as the 
government’s production. Commingling the government’s production with the agent’s would 
give our government assurance of receiving the same price as the agent’s price. Also, it should 
choose a producer/marketer with a track record of marketing its own oil. 

If this price obtained were the same as NYMEX. it would be purely coincidental NYMEX is a 
paper market Our government’s royalty barrels are wet barrels. Accordingly, they should be 
priced based upon the wet barrel market, or as it is often called, the cash market 

3. What financial incentives, if any, do you believe the federal government would need to 
provide a marketer? 

Looking at the different packages MMS would have to put together to include its entire twenty- 
five thousand leases, it is evident that the different packages would necessitate different marketin; 
arrangements and compensation. 

The initial costs to set up a governmental agency for R-I-K would be much greater than the 
costs of continued operation Any producer/marketers involved in the first R-I-K of those 
particular leases will incur greater costs than succeeding companies. This is due to a number of 
factors. Some would include working with the government to create a system to handle R-I-K, 
and researching all the transportation, owners and rates available for each individual leases. 

There will, of course, be many more duties required of the initial producer/marketer. 


3 



316 


In Alberta, Canada, the Crown’s royalty volume is concentrated in a manner similar to our 
government’s royalty volume in the Gulf of Mexico. The producer/marketer is paid a flat fee of 
$.05 per barrel. Since they do not take their gas in kind, there is no gas fee to compare. 

Onshore, the royalty volume of oil and gas is much less concentrated The aggregation alone, 
would be a greater chore In all likelihood, a greater number of producers would be producing a 
smaller volume This means more producers and wells per barrel/MCF to deal with. Since the 
volumes would be smaller, the chosen producer/marketer would receive less of an uplift in price 
which can result fi-om aggregation of larger vollumes This all translates into greater costs. 

Without knowing the parameters of the marketing arrangements which will be offered for bid, it is 
difficult to validate a particular compensation Market factors will help, to a great extent, in 
determining what the compensation should be 

4. In your testimony, you state, that MMS should have no shortage of bidders to market its 
oil. Yet, Wyoming recently offered oil and received only three bids which were all rejected. 
Why did Wyoming’s offer fail? In an area such as Wyoming, what would MMS have to do 
to be successful? 

The terms were not attractive. No effort appeared to be made to aggregate the volumes they did 
have They offered small volumes which were scattered all over the state The geographic 
diversity was great, and the volume was small. These two factors alone are some of the greatest 
obstacles to enhancing oil values by taking in kind and marketing downstream. One way to 
overcome geographic diversity is to find commonality in the transporters Apparently no effort 
was made to determine this either 

In order to be successful in Wyoming, both the state’s share and MMS’s share of the royalty 
would need to be combined Also, the package should contain as much of the produaion in 
Wyoming as possible in order to obtain any uphft in price possible through aggregation. 

Grouping production in such a way as to result in commonality of transportation and/or 
transportation owners, and aggregation of volumes would most likely enhance the value of the 
package. 

5. You note that it is more difficult to take in kind oil from wells you do not also operate, 
MMS operates none of the wells operating on federal lands. Consequently, it would have 
no control over the production of any of the thousands of wells operating on federal leases. 
How then could the MMS be assured of a revenue-neutral or cost-effective outcome? 

Lack of control is not the chief reason for the difficulty in taking in kind from outside operated 
wells. If I implied lack of control as the reason, I am sorry. Lack of information is the chief 
reason for the difficulty. We have trouble obtaining simple information such as the identity of the 
first purchaser. MMS has that information, and much more, as a result of their monthly forms 


4 



317 


sent in by the operators. 

Lack of significant volume in outside operated wells is another reason for the difficulty in 
improving the price by taking the oil downstream. Our government would encounter this problem 
with some, but not all of its leases In most of our outside operated wells, our net working 
interest is in the low single digits, unlike our Federal royalty, which is in the double digits. 

Because of the lack of information, and the greater difficulty in obtaining it, administrative costs 
are greater for taking-in-kind the production fi'om outside operated wells If the volume is there, 
the net price, except for administrative costs, we realize is no different than for inside operated 
wells. Because of our government’s advantages, as described above, R-I-K for our government 
should be more cost-effective than for us. 

6. On the question of transportation, especially as it relates to those situations in which 
trucking crude oil would be required, it is my understanding that the Alberta government 
has a series of safeguards, such as monitoring valves and meters, built into its system. 
Would the XI.S. producers be willing to allow such monitoring if the MMS switched to a 
royalty in kind program? 

This is already being done in the U.S. It is being done onshore and offshore. It is being done by 
MMS, sometimes BLM, by outside working interests, by operators and by producers. It is not 
uncommon for more than one party to have a meter checking the volume of production and/or 
sales. Typically, if installed and maintained by the requesting party, the addition of check meters 
is not a cost to the other party, and is acceptable 

However, I do not understand how the conversion to royalty-in-kind will affect the volume which 
is being attributed to our government’s royalty volume currently be accounted for. If a producer 
or transporter was measuring volume to the best of its ability with royalty-in-value, it will 
continue measuring accurately with royalty-in-kind 

7. If MMS were to implement R-I-K, would your company qualify or compete for one of 
the marketing contracts? 

Our company would qualify, under almost any criteria, to market that oil of our government’s 
which had a market center of Guernsey, Wyoming. Whether or not we would compete would 
depend on the compensation offered, and the parameters for marketing oil. We would need to be 
assured we could continue taking certain market risks. If we were to commingle our 
government’s oil with our own, we would be bound to market both together. 

We are an oil and gas exploration and production company. We make our income by selling 
the oil and gas which we have produced, from the wells which we have drilled We then use this 
income to drill more wells. Undertaking the responsibility to market another’s oil must not have a 
negative impact on our business. In other words, to agree to market our government’s oil, we 


5 



318 


would have to be given the right to continue marketing as before. Our government would have to 
share in all the risks and out-of-pocket costs. In return, we would share, proportionately as to 
volume, all proceeds. 


6 



319 


Questions from Chairman Cubin 

1. From MarathoD*s participation in the Texas program, would you be able to extrapolate the 
details to a national program? 

As explained in written testimony. Marathon has only participated in the oil segment of the Texas 
royalty-in-kind programs. Based upon this experience, Marathon believes the Texas oil RIK 
programs could be extrapolated to a national program with some modifications. The first change 
Marathon recommends is that MMS contract with marketers to market its royalty share of the 
production rather than perform this function itself. MMS should contract with regional marketers 
to ensure that localized market dynamics are fully understood and utilized for maAimum revenue 
enhancement. Second, MMS should take the vast majority of its production in*kind. In the 
Texas programs, the GLO and the University have elected not to market small volumes; this 
leaves both the government and the producer with an expensive administrative burden because oil 
valuation processes are still required for a large number of leases. 

2. What is your estimate of the transportation c^ts from Texas coastal leases to the onshore 
facility point for delivery? How would these costs compare to those on federal OCS leases, 
especially in the deeper waters of the Gulf of Mexico? 

Marathon does not have any first hand experience with or first hand knowledge of the 
transportation costs from Texas coastal leases to any onshore facility point for delivery. The costs 
would vary from lease to lease depending on the production volume, proximity to existing 
transportation systems, type of transponaiion (pipeline or barge), pipeline throughput, marketing 
dynamics, transportation alternatives, and environmental concerns. 

3. Isn’t a m^or bone of conteatloo between MMS and industry the issue of “duty to market?” 
What is your perspective on this with respect to designing a workable R-I-K program? 

“Duty to market” is an area of disagreement between MMS and industry which can be alleviated 
by a royalty*in-kind program. A duty to market and a duty to place production in marketable 
condition are separate and distinct obligations. MMS tries to equate the two and thus, create a 
fundamentally new obligation on a federal lessee of a duty to market. There is no comracrual, 
statutory, or regulatory requirement that a federal lessee market production away from the lease at 
no cost to the government. The cost of marketing efforts beyond placing the production in 
marketable condition at or near the lease, especially the cost of marketing effons incurred in 
order to obtain higher prices many hundreds of miles away from the field or area where the oil 
and gas were produced, is far beyond a lessee's obligation to place production in marketable 
condition. 

A workable royalty-in-kind program would eliminate tire duty to market issue because the ultimate 
disposition of the production would be detemiined by MMS through marketers acting on its 
behalf. The second principle adopted by the multi-association royalty-in-kind task force 
contemplates that transactions at or near the lea.se would fulfill the lessee's royalty obligation. 

Once a lessee delivers the federal govemmem’s production to an RIK delivery point at or near the 
lease, the lessee’s royalty obligation would be completely satisfied The lessor would benefit from 
any increased revenue resulting from the sale of the production downstream; in return, risks and 
costs incurred downstream of the RIK delivery point would be borne by the lessor. 



320 


4. In your experience with re-engineering en'orts ^ Marathon what processes in MMS can be 
etiminated? 

The key to re-engineering is to significantly improve or simplify processes. Several processes 
within MMS would be streamlined or significantly reduced through a royalty-in-kind program. 

The most obvious of these are the reporting and auditing functions. If MMS took its production 
in-kind, lessees would only need to report volumes. The time and cost of auditing the lessees’ 
volumes would be significantly less than the current expenditures to audit volumes and values. 
Historically, volume audit issues have proven to be much easier and quicker to resolve than those 
arising from valuation. Furthermore, the costs incurred by MMS and DOI to pursue valuation 
issues through the administrative appeals process and subsequent litigation would be dramatically 
reduced. MMS may choose to audit the marketers under an RIK program. However, these 
audits would be contractual audits rather than compliance audits and should be much simpler than 
the current valuation audits of lessees’ records. Also, the number of marketers would be a 
handful compared to the thousands of federal lessees. As a result of an RIK program, the royalty 
collection process would be streamlined and completed in a more timely manner. 

Another process which would be streamlined is royalty policy development. MMS has spent 
significant time over the last 15 years trying to write and rewrite oil and gas valuation 
regulations. An RIK program would requite an initial effort to design the program, but there 
would not be a need to rewrite the program each time KIMS perceived a change in market 
conditions. 

Questions from Mr. Romero-Barcelo 

1. Mr. Hagemeyer, we are told that Marathon must buy approximately S3 percent of the crude 
oil it reHne. Would Marathon be wUUng to (ay the U.S. a premium on market center 
prices in order to guarantee a large supply of domestic crude oil? 

Reported market center prices are typically spot prices, whereas the lease market is generally a 
term market. Marathon does not pay spot prices for term supply; rather. Marathon prefers to 
enter into extended term agreements, whether at the lease or a market center, to purchase crude 
oil in order to insure adequate refinery feedstock. Generally, market centers are trading locations 
for incremental barrels where shori*tcrm (month to month) shortages and overages are balanced 
out. Marathon buys some spot crude oil at market centers in order to meet occasional monthly 
shortages. 

Marathon is confused over the phrase “a premium on markM center price.” Market center prices 
are typically spot prices. As such, these prices are generally higher (or at a premium) than term 
prices at the lease or a market center. However, Marathon is not aware of any instance of 
premiums being paid on market center spe^ prices. 

2. With the large amount of federal oil offshore, could the federal government take its crude oil 
in k ifid and sell it to independent refiners or take it to Cushing and seU it at NYMEX or spot 
prices? What would be the results of the government entering the petroleum market in this 
way? 


2 



321 


MMS could dispose of its royalty oil in any manner it chose after taking custody of the crude oil 
at the lease. Possible dispositions would inclitde selling the crude oil at the lease, transporting or 
trading the barrels to Cushing or ocher market centers, selling to independent or integrated 
refiners, and enlarging the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. 

Whether MMS would take its royalty oil to Cushing or dispose of it an another maimer, a 
successful royalty-in-kind program should provide MMS with the potential to maximize net 
revenues for both the federal and state governments. In order to accomplish this objective, MMS 
should contract with marketers to market its royalty production to obtain the best price available. 
These marketers should have the ability to aggregate volumes, determine the most favorable sales 
locations, arrange transportation, and negotiate the terms and conditions of the sale. However, in 
order to realize the benefits of higher revenues which can be achieved through royaliy-in-kind , 
MMS. or its agent, must manage the risks and incur the costs associated with the marketing 
function. 

3. What downstream value exthancemeots (addons) should the federal government consider in 
taking and selling their production so that they would yield more revenues than the current 
“in value” system? 

Under lease terms MMS is entitled to the value of its production at the lease, it is not entitled to 
die value enhancements received downstream of the lease. However, royalty-in-kind provides 
MMS with the opportunity to achieve value enhancement if it is willing to assume the costs and 
risks of marketing its share of the productlon. 

In order to maximize revenues, u is critical that MMS contract with experienced marketers in 
each region or area. The marketers would be responsible for determining which add-ons were 
available based on their experience and knowledge of the market dynamics in that particular area. 
Depending on the volume, location, and type of crude oil. revenue enhancement could come from 
aggregation, access to a larger number of purchasers, increased price flexibility, and the ability to 
choose which market to enter. It may be advantageous for MMS to contract with marketers 
having the infrastuclure to aggregate and transport MMS* production. 

4. Under your R-l-K proposal, activities such as aggregation, transportation, sales location, 
would be shifted to the federal government. These activities are normally considered part of 
the dyoamics of the private market place. Aside from the socio-economic effects of such a 
change, the federal govenmient would have to bear the cost of these activities. What 
generally do these ‘^add-ons” cost the private sector today? 

A royaJty-in*kind program would not shift the costs of aggregation and iransponation to the 
federal government or create a new burden to be borne by the lessor. MMS should bear these 
costs under the current regulations as these activities arc downstream of the lease However, a 
royalty-in-kind program would give MMS more freedom to negotiate the terms of these activities. 

Based on the multi-association work group proposal, the aggregation and transportation functions 
would continue to be part of the private marketplace. MMS. through its marketer, would market 
(he federal government’s production in the private marketplace. The same total production would 
be available in the market; (he only change would be the party performing the marketing function. 
For this reason, the impact of an RIK program on the private sector would be minimal. 


3 



322 


There are no “generaJ" add-on costs. The add-on costs vary depending on volume, quality, 
location, and many other variables which may change from month to month or even day to day. 

5. A nationwide R-l-K program would give the federal government significant market power— 
domestically and internationally. How would you design an R-I-K program that would avoid 
the types of political mischief that could result from such power? I am referring to the 
possibilities for stockpiling crude oil or natural gas in such a way as to affect the market 
place. 

Marathon does not believe a nationwide royaliy-in-kind program would give the federal 
government power to influence the market price of crude oil either domestically or internationally. 
MMS’ crude oil volume, while large enough to benefit from aggregation and marketing through 
an RHC program, is relatively small compared to total domestic production. It is estimated MMS’ 
royalty-in-kind volume would be approximately 200,000 plus barrels per day. For the week 
ended August 15, 1997, API reports the total domestic production was 6,300,000 barrels per day. 
Based on these numbers. MMS would be marketirtg just over 3% of total domestic production. 
While the MMS' royalty oil is relatively small domestically, it is truly insignificant in the 
international arena. 

In addition, the total domestic production of crude oil will not change, only the seller will change. 
Even though MMS will have a significant volume of oil, it will not have any more market 
presence than many large producers. The influence of the federal government, or its agent, will 
also be mitigated because the MMS’ crude oil will not be one type of crude oil at one location. 

The oil will vary by location and type. Furthermore, the recent sale of crude oil from the 
Strategic Petroleum Reserve did not have any signifleam effect on crude oil markets. 

MMS' volume of natural gas, especially in the Gulf of Mexico area, would be significant and 
give MMS, through its marketer, a market presence. However. Marathon does not believe 
MMS' market presence would provide it with the ability to manipulate the market. 

Regarding “political mischief." as stated above. Marathon does not believe the federal 
government is in a position to affect or manipulate the market. The objective of MMS taking its 
royally oil and gas in-kind must be to maximize federal revenues. In order to achieve this 
objective, the marketers, acting as MMS’ agents, should be bound by the same laws and 
regulations as any other company to ensure there is no conflict with the objectives of the 
govemmeni and the oil and gas industry 

Many times there are valid reasons and acceptable strategies for increasing inventories in 
anticipation of market opportunities. MMS’ revenues can be maximized by the use of marketers 
with the experience and expertise to equalize on these market opportunities. However, any 
attempt to stockpile production for an extended period of time in an attempt to manipulate the 
price would be counter to the federal govcrnmcni’s objective to maximize revenue. Also, the cost 
of deliberately stockpiling crude oil or natural gas would be prohibitive, especially the cost to 
store natural gas. 

6. What generally do ’‘transportatioa” fees cost Marathon? 

Transportation fees may include gauging fees, gathering fees, trucking fees, loading fees. 


4 



323 


unloadbfi fees, transfer fees. loss allowances. Iine 611 costs, common carrier tariffs, quality bank 
charges, viscosity charges, indirect liquid diarg^. and <^rs. Tramponation fees vary from 
lease to lease depending on volume, location, crude type, and crude quality. There are no 
“general costs” for transportation. 

7. If MMS were to im|ienirat R^I-K, would Maratlu>n qualify or compete for oae of tiK 
marketiDg contracts? 

At this point in time, no qualificatiom for potemial marketers have been established, so Marathon 
does not know if it would quality as a marketer of MMS’ production, However. Marathon urges 
MMS not to exclude any marketers that could enhance the value of MMS’ production. 

Assumiog Marathon would qualify as a marketer of federal production, the corr^any may warn to 
compete for one or more of the contracts. However. Marathon would need to know the terms 
and conditions of any such contract before making any commitment. 


5 



324 



Edmund P. Sngrwc Hi 

SsmnHBfVkfPmUmtnd 

autf^st^ 


Sepureber4, 1997 


Snrofi Gorp. 
?.o.tenM 
MMMm. 7X 772Sl-nU 
m3}sa-s2a9 
fM»(7l3>tS3’25H 


The Honorable BubanL. Cubin 

fTiaimiaw 

Energy and Kfincal Eesourcat Subconunirtee 
House Ranurcct Cornauttec 
1626 Loogworth House Office fiuildiAg 
WasfaingtoiwDCZOSIS 


Dear <T>aifinti c ubin: 

In req>on.« to your letter of August 7, please find below reply to the questions posed 

by of tbs subcomaBttee. 

Quesdoos by Ke( reseotatzve Cubin 

OueflinnNQ. 1* How inqMTtant is finabty in toms of fulfilling dte lease obliga&on by taking 
royalty4>4und7 


Finality is osretnely important to lessees in terms of ftitfining the lease royalty obligation. 
Unfertuoat^, m uy are cmrestly forced to dedicate substantial resources to resolving 
isiues eoocenum past royalty payments. In addiuorv lack of finally creates unquantifiable risks 
for Ifivyf tKat a hrendy aflfect their deosioo-f&aidng process regarding conuoerdal ope r ado n s. 
cannot iratch true expenses with revenues. Wmn additional royalties are a ssess e d long 
the product on t^>on wluch they are a significant n&smatch between revenues and 
c os t* results. Cu rent revenues, based on ourent market conditions, which can vary significantly 
from such condit ons existing at the tune of the production in question, are affected. Such tisks 
aiwt uncertainty vi ould be efiminated if royalties am taken is kind by the royalty recipieot. 

Ko. 7* Could you suramarize other important respofoibifines that the govenunest, 
or its marketer, should take on a program to be ^r and equitable. 


Natural gas. Electricity. Endless possibilities. 



325 


Hbn. BvbanL. CuUa 
S<ptanbcr4, 199 > 
PigcZ 


genenl under i rqyilty-m>IdBd program the govemmetu or its muketiog agent should 
■ssuiae the nddsiretai re^ponsibililies that any commercial purchaser a gum e s today. These 
responsilnlities intiude (1) contracting &r or providing tran^ortation from the leasehold to the 
first available mar mt, (2) leasing storage and managing Invemoiies, (3) aggregating volumes, and 
(4) assumiogfinarcial risks for price fluctuadons and environmental liabilities. Such activities add 
vadue to the prodi a beyond its value at the lease, and such value is qrpically recovered when the 
product is sold end-tiseia. Thus, reliance on histoiical market practices &r asagsment of 
reaponAtlities an 1 risks, rather than a regulatory allocation, should produce the fiirest and most 
eqiuitaUe system f >r both patties. 

Quemions by tjegt esentative Ramen-Barcela 

OneaiionKo. 1: Currently, MMS docs not allow lessees to deduct the costs of marketing dl 

and gas, or the costs wth placing oil and gas 'in a maricetable 

eonditioiL' Your testimony suggests ihii you disagree with this practice. 
And, part of your rationale tor s^iportsng a ‘royalty-inland' proposal is 
that the producer, or royalty payor, would be absolved of paying frmse 
costs. MMS would absorb the costs of aggregating, 

transportation, and the other costs e s so ri a r e d with marketing oil and gas. I 
can see how the leasee, or producer, benefits under this sdieme. Please 
♦vpiein bow the public imerest is weU served by placing those costs on the 
federal government's side of the ledger. 


The quescioit riates that the costs of marketing oil and gas or placing oil and gas in a 
"ntrlcBtiblc* coac itioA ire not from royilty peymestt under curnsat Fegulation and 

At £aron is ivci thoc coses be shifted to the go^^^llne&t is a purchaser under a 

roytlty-in-ldnd pn gram. Tl^fatferpretationoftha regulations is incorrect. 

A. 

Under cur 'eat are r e q u ir ed to place oil aitd gas In a marfeetible 

The i sguiaiions define 'marketable condition* to mean lease pr odu rts vduch ere 
suSdently free fi un impurities and otherwise in a condition that they will be socqvted by a 
purchaaer under a salea contract typical for the fitid or area where the production occura. This 



326 


Hon. Baiten L.( ^ibin 
September 4, 19^7 


defioitioB is agmSetot in two relucts. First, it focuses on the taial physical condition of the 
lease product -ieconri. it only requires that the lease product be made 'maricstable* "~t<w 
coettacts typical or the fidd or area where the production occurs, not &r downstream. 

The existog rqulationa allow leases to deduct the costs of 'processing*, le. the costs 
iocumd in remsving hydrocarbon or non-hydrocarbon subs ran cs by processs such as 
drsorptaon, adsorption and refiigstinotL The costs of field processs which tyjHcaUy occur at or 
near tbs lease such s mechsnicsl sepantioa, coohiig, dehydration tod compression 

(other than com(raasion related to xniapomaon) are not consideted to be processng and are 
thus peribiined b r the leasee at no cost to the lessor. Lesses are thus only reqirired to remove 
impuritis and ot terwise enhance the physical eharacteristis of the lease predua to the •sn^nt 
required to satis y sals contnets typied for the field or ars where the protluedon occurs. 
Leases have no ibligation to further enhance the value of the produa beyoiid that for which a 
maticet exists in tie fidd or sis 

There arc no provistoos in exiding regulations expressly requiring that leases marks 
lease productiaR. Rafiier, MMS idis upon what it consideia to be an implied obligatioo on the 
part of foderal Isios to market production. There is some dispute whether this duty, foe impBed 
duty to marks, u appficible to federal oil and gas Isses. Tbeirr^liedduQrtomaiksbasalong 
histoiy in oil an 1 gas law in the comes of leass covering piivatdy owned lands. & has 
hittnn'slly meam that foe lessee must alone bear the costs incurred in marketing the lease product 
S or near foe lease. The costs inoured in rsdiing diisant msrVrr.t are to be borne 
propottionatdy hv foe lessor and lessee. Thus, even if foe duty to market is appficahle to federal 
leiseei, it only tw [uirs fos the lessee seek t market in the srs of production. According^, cotta 
incuired dowattn am of the first availsbie marks would be deductible for royalty purposes. 

The quest .on ^eciScslIy mentions foe costs of trenspoitalion and aggregation as part of 
maiketiiig & iidicaies foal these costs would be ihifM from foe lessee to foe foderi] 
gov en u nertt/purcl ass. This it not the esse Those cost which occur downstream as part of foe 
marketmg n are not typically borne by the lessee. First, under curreni regulationa. the 

costs of tnn^or ation of lease production are expressly lUowable as a deduction fiom royalty 
payments. Seoon i, the current regulations do not and could not require aggregation. In &3, foe 
regulations are sii ent on this point, but to foe best of Enron's Imowledge no lessee has ever been 
Gompdled to agitegste its lease production with other productioo to achieve a lugher value 
resulting fiom eonomies of scale. The holder of a foigis lease cannot be required to own or 



327 


Hott-BaibinL. <^lbia 
SeiMBber4, 19S7 

P»ie4 


Moaecostrolov 3^ vohtnies in cxceu of those produced punuint to its leue. To bold otherwise 
would usairtjr ddoiminate gainst smaS producers. Coaverady, boldets of iiaild;de leases 
cannot be bdd tc a iaibcf duQr saipiy because they may control otiter pcoduenon. JCeqturing 
lessees to Oder d e midstream or downstream maiicecs wouU be aids to requiring that azmeca not 
0 % raise a crop 00 their Ian4 but that they purchase the craps of others oc acquire additional 
lands to &ta to srD tfacs own cr<^ at a higher price. 

A royalty in kmd program thus does not shift costs to the federal government ihnt it does 
o» now bar. k iftwr, it vaoly ampUftes a system fiaught with compleahy and diqiute. Sudi a 
smp&fieation inui es to the ben^t of both the federal government and its lessees 

Oiieginn K g 2: The MMS dots aot bdieve that R-I-K programs would be as workable in 

the US. onshore leasing program widt ns myriad land types, revenue 
dstributiona, stitutory and regulatory euvironmatts, and scattered 
production as it apparently is in Alberta where production is reiativdy 
concentrated and ihe 'eoviranment is much less complex, hi your 
testimeay, you suggest that an R>I-K could and should tvotk fi>r bo^ ml 
and gu across the board. Why do you thznk it would work in the ondiore 
program? 

<>ie«tirin No.3: Wbat areas ofthe United Sutes are more auited for R>I-Kprogranu7 

Answers to Ouesi ion Nos. 2 and 3: 

We belies e that a royaity-in-kind program, if properly de&gned and impletnesied, can 
work one lore for the shnple reason that them costs a vibrant wdlbead market for 
volumes 1 irge end smell throughout the ccuntty. While simple economic realities may 
dictate thi t smaller volumes are valued diSerently than larger volumeSs market forca will 
tssuts tha : all volumes receive appropriate values. Accordingly, we believe that all anas 
oftheU.S are suited to a royalty in pragnm 

QjU fsrion No 4: The Alberte program excludes ftom consideradon crude oQ maikmers who 

are afSliated widi refiners. Wbai is your opinian — should the U.S. 
Government also preclude such marketers? 


We da net b^eve that there is any valid reason to ex^de o3 proifocers nffiliaterl with 
refiners from btd< ling in an open and competitive market for the govenimecifs royalty share of 



328 


Haa.BaibtnL. ^uUd 
S q>tcnib(r4. 19‘7 
P«geS 


prod ucn o n . Tht greater the nundter of poteniii] bidden far the govemnem't productioa, the 
ffetta it the like ihood thet its maximura value wiD be ecUeved. 

rai«rf;(vn Wn <■ If MUS wen to inqilement R-I-K, would Enron gueli^ or compete for 
one of the mitkeosg contnctt? 


While itu difficult to ttete unequivocally whether Enron would qualify or compete for one 
of the maikedng contnctt became the parameteri of such a program have yet to be developed. 
Enron would be ■ 'ety inteiested in puisiing luch an opportunity should it become available aiul if 
the program it dtsigned in luch a manner as to allow competitive and intwvative marketers to 
enqikiy their expi rtiie in these anti. 

I very mudi appreciate this opportunity to appear before the subcomminee. If I cut be of 
any additi c m a l aa istence, please do not hesitatd to contact me. 

Yours aincerdy. 



M-L-MIKr- FOSTER 
OOVERNOR 


JACK C. CAU>WCLL 
SECRETARY 


DEPARTMENT OF NATURAL RESOURCES 

OFFICE OF MINERAL RESOURCES 
STATE MINERAL BOARD 


MONICA T. SURPRCNANT 
CHAIRMAN 


August 27, 1997 


U. S. House of Representatives 
Conunttee on Resources 
ATTN: Buben Odm 

ChiinnMi, Subcommittee on 
Eoeigy lod hflneral Resources 
WesfaingtOA DC 20515 


RE: Response to Questionnaire 


Dear Ms. Cubin: 

Aaswen for Chairman Cubin 

L Ifwe were to Take Oil in Kind, there would most likdy be a negative revenue impact 
We feel that we are currently getting market value for our oil, with no marketing expense being 
deducted. Taking-in-kind of the State's oil and gas would require the development of a totally 
indepeadem accounting system which would serve to allocate taken production to lease and parish 
(or accounting to the State Treasurer for parish imd royalty income and dedicated lease income. 
Take4a4dDd would require much additional cost of hiring the required expertise to value and market 
the product Majority of production comes from leases which do not allow take^-ldnd. 

Abswcvs for Congressman Romero-Barcelo 

1. The State of Louiaana does not have a R-I-K program for its leases. 

2. Our lack of knowledge of the administrative costs of present MM5 programs 
piecfaides our attempting to focus many savings by switching over to a take-in-kind program. Any 
savings derived from administrative relief of valuations disputes may in feet be outweighed by 
administrative costs for the R-I-K program. 


P.O.B«sc2S2? a«l 0 « R«uge. Louii(«ni 70I2I.2I127 • USN.^diS^i 4tt< FW Smm Rouft, iMbiaw 70103 
Pb«M (SO*) 342.A61S Fu ($0*) 342-*527 t-inail«RKAdnr.5(jte ta.vj hBp://www.dnr.ttM.lA«a^ininenlii(n 



330 


U. S. House of Sj^esmtatives 
Comn^ee on Resources 
Page 2 

August 27, 1997 


3. The State feels the existing regulations need to be changed. We are in support of the 
revised proposed reguiations. We do feel, however, that starting at the NYMEX introduces a level 
ofcotnplexity that can be avoided amply 1^ starting at the market centers’ published spot prices. We 
fed that with the loosening of the requirements for a par^ to stay on gross proceeds (that MMS has 
proposed in their revised r^ulation) that virtually all of the independents who sdQ under arm’s length 
terms will be able to stay on gross proceeds. 

4. Revenue negative 

5. No. Only production that can easily be aggregated (either on paper or physically) and 
of sufficient volume to a^w MMS to obtain the best possible price, should be included in a Take in 
Kind program. 

6. L ou isi a n a would play no role in any MMS Take in Kind program, due to the lack of 
experience in this area. Depending on the year reviewed, we are collecting from SlOmm to SlStnm 
per year in oil and gas royalties from the Sg zone. To the extent that it can be shown, thru pilot 
programs, that R-l-K would benefit the State fiscally, we would favor inclusion of our 8g leases in 
a program Again, we do not have theoretical concerns about the cost effectiveness of an R-I*K 
program 


Yours very truly. 



Secretary, Department of 
Natural Resources 


o 



