
This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 
to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 
to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 
are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other marginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 
publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing this resource, we have taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 

We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain from automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attribution The Google "watermark" you see on each file is essential for informing people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liability can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 



at |http : //books . google . com/ 



HE 



,^ I T197 I B 1,036.213 ^ 

.. 173 



1^:&&« 



SOME COMMENTS 



ON 



The J 907 Annual Report 



OF 



I 



AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND 
TELEGRAPH COMPANY 



INDEPENDENT 



TELEPHONE 
11 



PUBUSHED BY THE 

INTERNATIONAL INDEMNDENT TELEPHONE ASSOCIATION 



CHICAGO 



SBFTEMSSH, >90a 




r 



SOME COMMENTS 



ON 



The 1907 Annual Report 



OF I., 



AMERICAN TELEPHONE AND 
TELEGRAPH COMPANY 



• • 
GANSEY R. JOHNSTON 

General Manager 
The G>Itimbus Citizens Telephone G>mpany 



PUBLISHED BY THE 

INTERNATIONAL INDEPENDENT TELEPHONE ASSOCIATION 

CHICAGO 



SEPTEMBER, X908 



Colnmbns, Ohio : 

The Berlin Printing Comf any, 

1908, 






•1 



COPYRM^'l, •1908. 
The iNTERNATldNAl INDEPENDENT 

Telephone Association. 



SOME COMMENTS ON 1907 REPORT OF THE AMERI- 
CAN TELEPHONE AND TELEGRAPH COMPANY 



The 1907 annual report of the Directors of the American Telephone and 
Telegraph Company, which is the controlling company of the Bell telephone 
interests, contains remarks with reference to Independent telephone com- 
panies, their promotion and competition, and with reference to public control. 
Certain extracts from the report are reproduced below. If these remarks 
have any bearing upon the future of the business, they display the belief of 
the Bell interests that the monopolistic condition of the telephone business is 
the proper one, and that the purpose of those interests is to re-establish such 
monopoly — ^presumably with themselves in power, although subject possibly 
to public control. Acquaintance with the business since its original opening 
to competition after the expiration of the Bell patents in 1894 brings many 
evidences of their continued purpose in this direction, and of the rec«it 
strengthening of that purpose as the competition has become more and more 
effective. 

The object of this paper is to show that the competitive condition of the 
telephone industry is now, and so far as we can see into the future, the 
proper condition, and that no more of municipal, state, or other form of 
puiWic control is needed' than is necessary to prevent fraud or exorbitant 
charges. 

Extracts From the A. T. & T. Report. 
Promotion and Competition — Independent Companies. 

The unusual production and prices, during the past few years, of those 
commodities which this country sells to the whole world, with accompanying 
very general distribution of wealth, resulted in an almost phenomenal finan- 
cial and industrial activity, stimulating new enterprises and promotions of 
all kinds, among them independent telephone companies. 

The exaggerated stories of the fortunes made by original telephone in- 
vestors, together with misleading statement of probable profits, made it pos- 
sible to launch many of these companies pledged to low rates for exchange 
service and high dividends to investors. At these low rates, with "main- 
tenance" and "reconstruction" expenses either int«itionally or ignorantly 
disregarded, these companies for a time had an appearance of prosperity. 

The result has been unfortunate in nearly every case. The promises and 
pledges as to rates and profits, made as an excuse for their comings as a 



basis for their franchise, and as an incentive to attract capital, are now ad- 
miitted to be impossible. Most, if not all, of these companies, which have 
had an existence long enough to force attention to the items of "main- 
tenance" or "reconstruction," are now asking for increased rates, and to be 
absolved from onerous conditions freely accepted and assumed at the begin- 
ning. Reorganizations are now in progress. 

It would seem, as a whole, that the gain of the public through compe- 
tition based on low rates has not compensated for the loss of capital invested 
in these enterprises. 

During this period of strife and rush for development and extension, 
many subscribers were connected to exchange systems with little or no bene- 
fit to themselves or advantage to others, and much was done that under ordi- 
nary conditions would not have been done. 

Competition. 

The value of any exchange system is measured by the number of the 
members of any community that are connected with it. If there are two 
systems, neither of them serving all, important users must be connected with 
both systems. Connection with only one is of but partial value and cannot 
be satisfactory. Two exchange systems in the same community, each serv- 
ing the same members, cannot be conceived of as a permanency, nor can the 
service in either be furnished at any material reduction because of the com- 
petition, if return on investment and proper maintenance are taken into ac- 
count. Duplication of plant is a waste to the investor. Duplication of 
charges is a waste to the user. 

The advantages claimed for competition are lower rates and improved 
service. Exhaustive competition may temporarily produce either or both 
of these results, :but, as before stated, this temporary gain is purchased by an 
excessive waste. Duplication of plant and operation cannot produce either 
result without exhaustive competition. Given the same management, the 
public must pay double rates for service, to meet double charges, on double 
capital, double operating expenses and double maintenance. In most cases 
of proposed competition an examination of the prospectus will show that, by 
some process, it is expected to make good a capitalization equal to at least 
two or three times the actual cost of the construction. The only benefits are 
to the promoter. 

Public Control. 

It is contended that if there is to be no competition, there should be 
public control. 

It is not believed that there is any serious objection to such control, 
provided it is independent, intelligent, considerate, thorough and just, recog- 
nizing, as does the Interstate Commerce Commission in its report recently 
issued, that capital is entitled to its fair return, and good management or 
enterprise to its reward. 

Independent Companies Not So Black as Painted. 

In this writing, I will not undertake to gather and publish data refuting 

the insinuations and allegations of improper promotion (as distinguished 

yrom "^ood wBiiagement or enterprise") of Independent telephone com- 



panics on any considerable scale. The A. T. & T. general statements in 
the first paragraph quoted may (he met by general denial. The observation 
of those in the business and of those who have enjoyed their service is to the 
effect that Independent telephone companies, while not uniquely free from 
inflated values, flimsy construction, and sales to unwary investors, have not 
been burdened by these to any notable degree. There has been no general 
admission by Independent telephone companies of non-excuse for being. 

One Bell Claim Inconsistent With the Purpose of its Argument, 

It is suggested that the promoter in most cases obtains benefits from 
expecting to make good a capitalization equal to at least two or three times 
the actual cost of construction. Fraudulent promotion finds no more de- 
fenders among Independent than among Bell telephone men. If any Inde- 
pendent telephone capitalization is good — and the Bell people have never 
shown that more Independent than Bell capitalization has been bad — ^and if 
it is made good in these proportions by rates lower than Bell rates, what is 
the inference concerning those Bell rates now and before reduction, or what 
becomes of the "disregarded maintenance" argument? If a company can 
make good a capitalization three times the value of its physical plant it 
can surely make that plant good. 

Why Rates Increase. 

That some of the many Independent telephone companies, after years 
of operation, have sought to increase their rates, and have even admitted an 
increase in rates to be necessary to their solvency, is not evidence that the 
rates at first were too low or the early years on a shaky financial foundation. 
Causes have arisen requiring a higher level of charges than were necessary 
when the plants were installed. Among these have been higher prices of 
material and labor, losses due to abandonment of equipment rendered obso- 
lete iby the progress of invention, and the increased cost growing out of the 
multiplication of telephones. 

As lines are added to a telephone plant, the cost of construction, main- 
tenance and operation of each new and of each old line tends to increase be- 
cause of the addition. The construction cost of the new lines averages 
greater because the average length of line increases with the growth of the 
plant. The construction cost of the switchboard connections for both the 
old and the new lines increases because facilities must be provided at the 
switchboard to connect each line, old and new, with every other line, as 
well as extra facilities for the additional traffic. The imit of operation cost 
increases because, as new connections are provided, there is additional use of 
each line. For example, each subscriber on a 2000-line plant uses his line 
for such business as he has occasion to do with tivo%"^ ^:«^ '^'cs<ssassSs.^ -^s^*^ 



for the entire subscription list (without taking into account more than one 
person for each line) the possible demand for connections is limited to the 
square of 2000 less 2000, or 3,998,000. If the plant is doubled, each of the 
original two thousand has his original outgoing and incoming calls plus what 
he has with the additional subscribers, and in like manner do the new ones 
have more than did the old. The limit of demand in this case on the same 
basis is measured by the square of 4000 less 4000, or 15,996,000. If the 
plant is trebled, then the limit of the demand is measured by a number nine 
times the first one taken. If the number of persons using each telephone 
should be taken into account, the increase would be much more rapid than 
indicated. While the actual demand never approaches the possible demand, 
it is certain to increase in greater ratio than by simple addition. The addi- 
tional traffic means more work for operators and consequently more opera- 
tors proportionately, and greater wear and consequently a higher main- 
tenance charge for each line. As the size of the plant grows, the operators 
work under increasing physical difficulties, and with still greater growth the 
line connections get beyond the operator's length of arm, so that the separa- 
tion of switchboards is necessary. The average maintenance charge is in- 
creased, not only by the wear, but by the existence of the additional central 
office equipment and the longer length of lines to be kept in repair and ulti- 
mately replaced. On a very large plant certain traffic, trunking, and trans- 
mission difficulties require large expenditures in their overcoming. Not 
only does the cost increase as outlined, but also does the value to the user 
increase. If the telephone charge were based on a unit of use, as in the 
ordinary business, then probably the telephone business would be more 
analagous to the ordinary 'business; although even such charge would not 
afford relief from the extra elements of construction and maintenance costs. 
Within certain limits the public gains more from the larger number of con- 
nections than it loses by paying an increased charge for line rental, if indeed 
the charge is not left stationary. The existence of limits to this enhanced 
value will be made the subject of further discussion. 

Columbtis as an Illustration, 

Most of my illustrations will be chosen from the city of Columbus, Ohio, 
having a population within the exchange district of approximately 180,000. 
The Columbus telephone history and present situation are fairly typical. 
The Citizens Telephone Company began agitation for a franchise late in 
1898, when the Central Union (Bell) Telephone Company had less than 
1900 telephones, with rates near the business district as high as $96 a year 
for business telephones and $48 for residence telephones, and with addi- 
tional charges for distance beyond one mile or more from the exchange. 



The rates throughout the city today arie respectively $54 and ^27 a year for 
Bell main line business and residence telephones. By the time the Citizens 
plant was placed into paid operation in August, 1900, the Bell connpany had 
probably 4000 telephones. Within a year the Citizens Company had 5400. 
This was more than there had been reason to expect from the history of the 
business. At the present time each company has in the neighborhood of 
12,000. Within this period the Citizens Company has a!bandoned its origi- 
nal switchboard, with a capacity of 5200 lines, because of its having been 
outgrown as well as fallen behind the progress of invention. The Bell 
company has recently abandoned its switchboard which was in operation in 
1899. The Citizens Company's expenses showed a gradual increase per 
line as the plant grow. At the close of 1906 there were 7300 main-line tele- 
phones. The directors then considered an increase in the business rate of 
$6 a year and in the residence rate of $3 a year, 'besides the reduction of 
certain minor rates, and the installation of a two-party-line service at $34 
and $18 a year. The reasons for this consideration were found not in any 
need for correcting past mistakes, but in the need of greater revenue to 
offset the increased expense per line and the then high cost level of copper 
and other material and of labor, and, of more importance, to take care of the 
prospective development at the increasing cost. In the judgment of the 
directors, there was and is greater public need for further development than 
for the continuance of the low rates. However, since that time there has 
been a saving to the company through the use of new automatic telephone 
equipment and the invention of cheaper means of adding to the plant. Ac- 
cordingly the rates have been allowed to remain at the lower level. 

Now the question is whether such changes in rates as were considered 
by the Citizens Company, and such as have been proposed or carried through 
by other Independent companies, are unfortunate to the extent implied in 
the report of the American Telephone and Telegraph Company. The pub- 
lic for more than six years had «i joyed the lower rates of .the Citizens Com- 
pany ; and for these rates, it is fair to say, had received quite as many bene- 
fits as could have come from Bell telephones. 

Public Savings From Low Rates, 

A tabulation of the public saving is given below. The Central Union 
rates varied somewhat with grade of service and distance from the ex- 
change, and were not uniformly maintained for all users, but it seems more 
than fair, for the purpose of comparison with the single-line, copper-metallic 
circuit, granular-carbon transmitter service of the Citizens Company, at $40 
and $24 within the city limits, to use the %y2 and $42 rates of the Bell com- 
pany until their general reduction to $54 and $27 in 1905. 



BUSINESS TELEPHONES AT $40 A YEAR. 



Average number in service Telephones 
August 1 to December 1, 1900... 1968 X 

Years 1901, 1902, 1903, 1904 2300 X 

Year 1905 2456 X 

Year 1906 2849 X 



Yearly 






Total 


Saving 


Years 




Savings 


$32 X 


5/12 


= 


$ 26,240 


32 X 


4 


^ 


294,400 


14 


1 


= 


34,384 


14 


1 


= 


39,886 



Total $394,910 

Year 1907 2994 X 14 1 = 41,916 



Total $436,826 

RESIDENCE TELEPHONES AT $24 A YEAR. 

August 1 to December 31, 1900... 1616 X $18 X 5/12 = $12,120 

Years 1901, 1902, 1903, 1904 2530 X 18 X 4 = 182,160 

Year 1905 2455 X 3 1 = 7,365 

Year 1906 3992 X 3 1 = 11,976 



$213,621 

Year 1907 4620 X 3 1 = 13,860 



X 
X 
X 
X 


$18 

18 

3 

3 


X 5/12 
X 4 

1 
1 




3 


Total .... 


X 


1 



Total $227,481 

Saving on both business and residence telephones to close of 1906 $608),531 

To close of 1907 664,307 

From this it appears that if the competing telephone company had 
never come into existence and those persons who took the competing service 
had taken the service of the Bell company at the prices it was then charging 
on its exchange of 1900 telephones, they would have paid to the Bell com- 
pany $514,920 before that company reduced its rates. Since the reduction 
of the rates (which did not take effect with the beginning of 1905, although 
the table shows it for the whole year), there has been an additional saving, 
figured on the same basis, of $149,387. It seems fair to assume that the 
primary cause of the reduction was the competition, and that in the absence 
of the competition the rates would have been increased rather than reduced, 
inasmuch as the Bell plant has increased sixfold. 

Their Bearing on ''Reconstruction." 

On the basis of the present main-line subscribers of the Citizens Com- 
pany, the difference between the rates now charged by the two companies 
means a saving to the subscribers of the Citizens Company of about $60,000 
a year. This sum, invested at six per cent, would amount in nineteen years 
to $2,150,000, which is the present entire outstanding capitalization of the 
Citizens Company. In other words, if the Citizens Company would begin 
now to charge its present subscribers the rates charged by the Bell company 
and would invest the increase in its revenue at six per cent, it would have 
all the income it now has for maintenance, operation, general expenses, taxes, 
interest, dividends, and surplus, and in addition thereto, in the course of 



nineteen years, would accumulate sufficient money to retire every dollar of 
its invested capital. 

If the directors of the Citizens Company have erred in their rates to the 
extent implied by the Bell reports, then they have erred by the full amount 
of a generous "maintenance" or "reconstruction" account on top of all that 
they have applied to such an account. Something other than "maintenance" 
or "reconstruction," to all appearances, is needed to justify the original and 
present Columlbus Bell rates. 

Such Savings Equal to Duplication of Charges, 

This amount, $60,000, is about equal to the amount paid the Citizens 
Company for telephones duplicating Bell telephones. The community, as a 
whole, then, is suffering no loss from the existence of the Citizens service at 
its lower rates, if it be admitted that the Citizens service is worth the Bell 
prices. It is not necessary for this comparison to admit that the second 
telephone in an establishment is worth anything at all. 

Other Benefits to the Public and the Companies. 

Every telephone user is benefited more or less by the increase in the 
number of connections available on either system. The Citizens subscribers 
have the benefit of quick, easy, and interesting calling on the automatic 
system. The Bell company, by reason of having the automatic system as 
its comjpetitor, has been able to improve its own service and lessen its ex- 
penses, because this automatic system has cut in half the demand for opera- 
tors in Columbus, still leaving, however, the demand greater than the supply. 
As the growth of the city has necessitated the establishment of branch 
exchanges, this advantage for both companies is greatly augmented, since the 
automatic system permits the user to call to, from and through a branch 
exchange with no more effort than is involved in calling over centralized 
equipment, while the Bell company needs, for branch exchange calling, two 
or three operators in the circuit instead of one. Furthermore, the number 
of calls from and to places having both connections is lessened on the Bell 
system by so much as is handled over the Citizens system; this likewise 
lightens the load on the Bell operating force, quickening the service and 
reducing the cost. 

Possible Objections. 

If the figures used are correct, it seems that a good case is made in favor 
of telephone competition as affecting the public and the Independent in- 
vestor. There appear to be these lines of possible refutation : that the Citi- 
zens Company is not properly maintaining its property or that it is not 
solvent; that its expectations from its automatic e<3^v^\s®s>*. ^:3aKSNK:^. ^^^^^ 



lO 

realized and its rates may yet need to be raised ; or that the sound Columbus 
condition is not typical; and that in any case the Bell company has not 
profited by the competition. Rejoinders might be offered, that the sound 
condition of the Columbus Citizens property and finances and their likeness 
to those of other Independent telephone companies can be substantiated by 
any impartial investigation;* that in any event the difference between their 
present condition and one unquestionably sound could be overcome by a 
small advance in rates, much less than commensurate with the enhanced 
values; and that the Bell company has had a fair opportunity to get what 
profits it deserves. 

The Central Union's Plight and Petition, 

The Central Union Telephone Company's printed report for 1907* is 
almost a .plea for help from the state on the score of poverty. Witness: 
"The Central Union Telephone Company has not been making returns on 
the investment for the past twelve years, and it cannot expect to make any 
return whatever until rates are raised." "We . . . should accept new 
ordinances with proper terms regulating the company and its rates, because 
when the public seeks to regulate, it must recognize the obligation to pro- 
tect." The future appears to hold no prospects for this company except "to 
hold our position until the Independent fallacies . . . demonstrate them- 
selves," and "to consolidate and unify the exchange systems whenever it can 
be done upon a basis of true values, i. e., actual investment* — ^until the field is 
clear." "Such unification of the systems," it is said "will result in the will- 
ingness on the part of the public to pay rates that will" be higher. 

The question at issue, not only academically between the companies, but 
practically at times between the companies and the public or its legislative 
bodies, is whether the Independent movement, that is, telephone competition, 
is a fallacy, or the Bell monopolistic acts and purposes are fallacious. 



*It may be said that the Columbus situation is not truly typical of the village and 
rural conditions. The city telephone service, with the rural service immediately asso- 
ciated therewith, is, however, by far the most important. We cannot deal with the 
disassociated rural service without giving it much space of its own. Its real pros- 
perity, I believe, is bound up with the existence of competing telephone interests in the 
cities. 

•For its entire territory— most of Ohio and Indiana and part of Illinois, not in- 
cluding Cleveland, Cincinnati or Chicago. 

■If the Central Union expenditures, in its efforts to achieve monopolistic control of 
the business, are treated as investment," and if those efforts fail, then the true value 
of its property may prove to be less than the actual investment. The risks and the 
persistency of those who have prevented such monopolization are entitled to a repre- 
sentation in the value of their property whether represented in the investment or not. 
The value of the business of either, as measured by its service to the community, is 
inestimable. 



II 

An Outcome of Inexperience. 

The directors of the Citizens Telephone Company, like the directors of 
many other Independent telephone companies, started into the business with- 
out experience and with little more knowledge than came from observation. 
They conceived the business to be an undeveloped one and 'by no means a 
necessary monopoly. They purchased their equipment in the open market. 
They sought to install the best that could be had. They ran the risk of 
failure in a comparatively untried field. They demonstrated that, with sub- 
stantially the same form of equipment, a plant of more than three times 
the size of the Bell plant at the time of their starting could be operated and 
maintained at not much more than half the long-established Bell rates. 

Bell Expenditures to Poor Purpose. 

If the Bell company has not been equally successful, it has not been 
by reason of the competition taking away its business. Its business has 
grown in' Columbus at about the same pace as the Citizens business. Its 
relative failure cannot be accounted for by me authoritatively or illustrated 
mathematically ; but from observations and from common knowledge, it may 
be said that the Central Union Company has had two heavy sources of drain 
upon its revenue which the Independent companies have not. It has been 
obliged to pay tribute to the American Telephone and Telegraph Company 
for license to do business and to use telephone instrum«its, and has been 
obliged to buy some of the most expensive of its instruments and equipment 
from the Western EUectric Company, controlled by the A. T. & T. Company, 
without the benefit of competitive prices.* It has ever been trying to re- 
establish monopoly in the business, and in so doing has cut deeply into its 
revenues by discrimination in rates, by furnishing free service, by continuing 
telephones in service after the cessation of pa)mients, by taking on sub- 
scribers of known inability to pay, and in other ways making a show of num- 
bers beyond the productive subscription list.' It has also, on occasion, made 
purchases at high prices of competing plants in the vain expectation of stop- 
ping competition. It has started the construction of plants and the soliciting 
of subscriptions at low rates rather with the idea of scaring Independent 
companies out of business than of completing the construction of a truly 
competitive service. It has an organized department endeavoring, by threat 
and persuasion, to break down the continuity of Independent exchanges and 
toll lines iby monopolizing strategic points. It has spent much money in the 



*The Western Electric Company, late in 1907, presumably under stress of compe- 
tition, changed its selling plan so as to go into the competitive market with low prices. 
This may be with the expectation, by unprofitable underselling temporarily, of starving 
out the manufacturing competition. 

•The general Bell policy in these particulars also appears to have. \ift.^^ xs^s^-^SSsr.^. 



12 

publication of articles and advertisements and in the circulation of papers 
and pam/jrfilets designed to influence the public mind toward monopoly and 
to excite prejudice against its competitors.* 

Is It Too Late To Mend? 

If it be inquired what the Central Union Company may do to restore 
its shattered finances, the answer may be found, I judge, in the statement 
that if that company and its controlling organization, the American Tele- 
phone and Telegraph Company, will recognize that the telephone business 
is competitive and will turn into the channels of inventional and commercial 
development the money diverted to centralized profits and the endeavor to 
re-establish monopoly, then every portion of the Bell system may show both 
profits and progress. 

Account Should Be Taken of the Smaller Users. 

In the quotation from the A. T. & T. report appears this sentence : "If 
there are two systems, neither of them serving all, important users must be 
connected with both systems." Then the argument proceeds as though there 
is no distinction between important users and all users. It is true that if 
there are two systems of importance in a community, then important users 
must or should be connected with both.f 

It is also true that such important users are getting their double tele- 
phone service very cheaply. The less important users, who number .five times 
the duplicate users, get their service (which, so far as students of the tele- 
phone demand in Columbus can tell, is satisfactory and of all but complete 
value), more cheaply than if the community were served by a single system. 

Division Means Saving, 

To quote again : "Two exchange systems in the same community, each 
serving the same members, cannot be conceived of as a permanency, nor 
can the service in either be furnished at any material reduction because of 



♦It seems proper to comment that these criticisms of the Central Union Company, 
applicable to other Bell subsidiary companies, as well as to the parent A. T. & T. 
Company, are on a somewhat different footing than Bell criticism of Independent 
motives and actions. The Bell interests have an official control and official policies. 
The Independent companies, on the other hand, are very largely local and self-govern- 
ing. They have certain common ties but no common control. We should not pretend 
that all the actions of all of their representatives have been admirable; but to make 
criticism of any unworthy actions apply to the Independent interests generally, it is 
needful to show that they have been adopted or approved generally. 

tWhen a merchant complains that the growth of a second telephone system forces 
him to subscribe for a second telephone, it is very much the same as though he should 
complain that the gathering of a crowd in front of his store every morning forces the 
cfpenjn^r oi its doors and the employment of salespeople to receive the customers. 



13 

the competition, if return on the investment and proper maintenance are 
taken into account. Duplication of plant is a waste to the investor. Dupli- 
cation of charges is a waste to the user." The proper answer to the state- 
ment that service on either of two systems cannot be furnished at any ma- 
terial reduction because of competition, is simple denial. This is true as 
relating to the very small communities, and it may possibly be true as re- 
lating to such an extraordinarily large community as New York in the 
present state of the art, but for all the cities between the extremes, wherever 
the business is conducted efficiently and honestly, with a fair degree of de- 
velopment, service is cheaper on either of two systems than it would be on 
a single system of the size of both. Reasons for this are illustrated above 
as being inherent in the present nature of the business, as well as explained 
to some extent ibelow. It is independent of the price-reducing effects of 
competition. It can be illustrated by public argument of the Bell company's 
representatives, if not deduced from the very report we are commenting 
upon. 

It may be catching up careless wording, or it may be pointing out a 
saving phrase, to observe that the statement is that competitive service can- 
not be furnished at any material reduction. Whenever the public can get 
the results of competition upon human action with any reduction in the neces- 
sary costs it is making a two-way saving. 

The Future Unpredictable. 

It may be that two exchange systems in the same community, each 
serving the same members, cannot be conceived of as a permanency. It is a 
condition that has never actually been approached. The permanent condi- 
tion of the telephone business is not yet to be conceived. The possibilities 
in different directions appear too great to permit any forecast of its ultimate 
condition. 

The Smallness of Duplicate Charges. 

As for the waste in the duplication of charges: In Columbus some- 
thing like fifteen per cent of the telephones are duplicated. The bulk of 
these duplications are business telephones. Many of these duplicate users 
would have two or more telephones if there were but one system. Many 
others get benefits from their telephone service so far beyond its cost that the 
cost is in no sense a burden or a waste. The cost of a business telephone 
on the one plant is eleven cents a day, and on the other fifteen. If incoming 
or outgoing calls are worth on an average five cents apiece, then three a day 
will pay for the assumed wasteful duplicate charge. 



14 

The User Benefited by Development, 

From the A. T. & T. rqx>rt, is quoted: "The cost and value of the 
system to any subscriber do not depend so much on the number of communi- 
cations had as on the number and extent of other circuits and facilities neces- 
sary to give the communications desired." If it be admitted that competition 
has been a moving cause in the multiplication and extension of circuits and 
facilities, then this points to an increase in the value of the systems from 
competition. Further remarks in the A. T. & T. report are to the effect 
that the cost or value cannot be exactly distributed. In this may be found a 
justification for the double charge for the residuum of duplicate users who 
do not get their share of value from the two systems. Their charges arc 
among those inequitably distributed. In number and in amount of pa)mients, 
however, they are of very much less importance than those who get their 
satisfactory restricted service on the single system at the low rate which the 
division of systems permits. 

Are There Double Operating and Maintenance Expenses? 

The operating expenses of a telephone exchange, such as the Bell's, are 
in small part organization and indirect labor costs, and in large part direct 
labor wages. The former, on the average, are increased by division — 
whether into separate systems or separate exchanges on the same system. 
The latter increase and diminish with the traffic on separate systems; but 
increase always with increased traffic on separate exchanges, with free inter- 
change of calls, on the same system. There are two imits affecting opera- 
tion — the line unit and the call unit. As the number of lines increases on a 
single switchboard, a point is reached where the line connections cannot be 
brought within an arm's-length. The board must then be divided, and the 
calls "trunked" or transferred between the boards. This means almost 
double operating labor on such calls. The call unit is a single call — ^which 
is not at all comparable, for instance, with such a unit as a car-mile, since the 
car may carry, with the same crew, two passengers or two hundred. Does 
the number of calls double because of competition? On the contrary, an 
increase would come in both effective and ineffective calls from combination, 
particularly at the period of the peak-load. I have prdbably carried this 
analysis far enough to leave it with the statement that, with minor exceptions, 
operating expenses are lessened rather than doubled by telephone competition. 

As to the maintenance expenses, it may be said that the relatively small 
organization and indirect labor costs may be somewhat increased by separa- 
tion, and the direct labor wages sometimes also. The maintenance arising 
from traffic is smaller from competition ; so, too, is that from separation of 
exchanges on the same system. As we shall see, there is not much extra 
j>)Bnt cost from the separation of systems ; but such as there is entails extra 



IS 

maintenance expenses. To speak of double maintenance, however, is to give 
no heed to the conditions of the telephone business. The effect of competi- 
tion in leading the management to the study of economy may be suggested. 

The Smallness of Plant Duplication. 

Concerning the investment waste from duplication of plant: If the 
duplication of telephones is fifteen per cent, the investment duplication is 
hardly as much as twenty. The most expensive elements of a telephone 
plant are individual for each subscriber. The largest single investment item 
is cable and line wire. Only the cable supports and, in part, the sheath are 
duplicated, and these only in the smaller sizes. The cable and line cost in a 
well-filled plant is not duplicated even in proportion to the duplicate tele- 
phones, because the duplications are mostly in the business districts nearest 
the exchange, where the cable units, by reason of short lengths and the most 
economical sizes, are cheapest, and where there may be very little use of line 
wires, and because the telephone duplications are not all on parallel lines. 

Switchboards, if not connected, are cheaper separated than combined. 
If connected, then, if common battery it is said to be standard Bell practice, 
in the interest of economy, to separate them when they reach 9600 lines ; and 
if magneto, their separation micans little extra cost. On the whole, it is 
doubtful whether switchboard costs are duplicated beyond the proportion of 
line duplications, if as much. 

Two pole lines may represent waste when they are parallel with no 
more of a load than could be borne on one. They may have no element of 
waste with a greater load, or when shared with other wire-using companies.* 

•On the streets and alleys of Columbus are poles conveying wires of the following 
companies: The local Bell Company, the long-distance Bell Company; the local In- 
dependent Company, the long-distance Independent Company; the Western Union 
Telegraph Company, the Postal Telegraph Company, the American District Telegraph 
Company; the Columbus Railway & Light Company; the Columbus Public Service 
Company, with electric lighting and power circuits; the municipal light plant, the mu- 
nicipal fire-alarm and police telegraph system; and sundry electric traction companies. 
The long-distance telephone circuits of both companies are carried within the city 
almost entirely upon the poles of the local telephone companies. It is worthy of men- 
tion that the long-distance Bell Company, which controls the local Bell Company, has, 
outside the city, chosen to parallel local Bell pole lines in order, apparently, to reserve 
pole space . for future circuits ; and that Central Union pole lines in places parallel 
Central Union subway. The telegraph companies have several joint arrangements 
with one telephone company or the other for important pole lines through the city. 
The Citizens Telephone Company has a working arrangement with the municipal 
lighting plant for joint occupancy of poles in a large section of the city, and with the 
Railway & Light Company for joint occupancy of poles throughout the entire city. 
The Railway & Light Company has a joint pole line with the Postal Telegraph Com- 
pany. The Bell Company and the Public Service Company exchange pole contracts. 
The fire-alarm and police and the district telegraph circuits are almost altogether on 
others' poles. There are other minor arrangements between these different com- 
panies; as, for example, with the electric railway companies. All of these arrange- 
ments go to reduce the number of poles in the city. It is a question whether, if the 
Bell and Citizens local telephone service should be combined, there would be any 
reduction in the number of poles required for the public utility companies. 

At present prices two 35- foot pole lines cost no more tha.tv <yaft. ?A-l<ci^s.^c«NR:.. 



i6 

Increasing the lead may require larger poles and more expensive guying and 
assist deterioration. Poles, which have probably been used more in the past 
than they will be in the future, are increasing in price, particularly those 
longer and heavier poles that a combined system would require. 

Of the subway and conduit system only that smaller portion is waste 
which is represented by the costs of opening and repaving the streets, the 
manholes, and part of the digging, and perhaps by ducts carrying duplicate 
cable. Subways and manholes cannot always be comlbined economically, 
particularly when the system is of large size or in streets with many obstruc- 
tions. Subway material, which will probably be used more in the future 
than in the past, has been decreasing in price. 

The cost of interior wiring and instruments is duplicated only in pro- 
portion to the duplication of telephones. This duplication gives the users 
the benefits of simultaneous and alternative use. 

The buildings may well be duplicated without waste, particularly as 
modern construction favors plenty of space, light and air. 

All the engineering and overhead expenses are relatively small and 
probably contain little unnecessary duplication. 

How Far Was Wasteful Duplication Preventdble? 

Waste may be defined as any departure from perfect economy. A pro- 
test against waste, however, is of no effect unless it can be shown that such 
waste is preventable. Waste which comes from not building large enough 
cannot be prevented unless the building of the future is foreseen in some- 
thing like its proper quantity, form, place and time. If pole lines or sub- 
ways or cable lines are built for less than their future load, then there is 
waste. If they are built for more than their future load, then there is 
waste. If their estimated future load comes too soon, so that a later period 
of construction means duplication, then there is waste. If such future load 
is too long in coming, then there is waste. If ihuilding is done now for the 
future with materials that will become cheaper in the future, then there may 
be waste. If today's form of construction becomes obsolete through the 
advance of the art, then there is waste. If expected development built for 
on a given route is never realized, then there is waste. 

A striking feature of the telephone business, looking back over about 
one decade of competition and two decades of monopoly, has been its enor- 
mous development and the unexpectedness of such development. The Bell 
companies, in their period of monopoly, evidently proceeded on the theory 
of treating the telephone as a luxury, to be used by the few who could afford 
a high price. The Independent companies going into the field from 1895 
to jpoo foresaw a greater development at a lower price and in their con- 



17 

struction provided for a great deal of new territory and a larger number of 
telephones in existing territory. However, they did not foresee any such 
demand as grew out of the lower prices, the improvement in service and the 
cumulative effect of the increasing number of connections. The history of 
the business has been one of inadequate facilities to meet the growing de- 
mand. Looking, with the knowledge of today, at telephone plants as they 
exist today, it is easy to point out a certain small proportion of wasteful 
duplication. Looking forward from ten or even five years ago, could many 
of these wasteful duplications have been prevented? Not many. Those 
who were building then had no such foresight as could have produced plants 
even as economical as existing plants. 

The A. T. & T. report states that the urban "development keeps pace 
with the demand." This has not been the case uniformly with the two sys- 
tems in Columbus, nor indeed in very many cities known to the writer. The 
values lost to the public by reason of inability to secure desired telephone 
service are beyond the range of calculation. They have been greatly less- 
ened by the competitive condition. 

Wastes on a Single Plant: Prospects of Saving, 

Having the future in consideration, stress ought not to be laid upon the 
duplications and wastes of the past, but rather upon the wastes of the pres- 
ent, which the future may find ways to avoid. The telephone business as at 
present conducted is a wasteful ibusiness. Invention is making a fair start 
toward reducing these wastes. The cost of cable and lines on the ordinary 
telephone plant is very much greater than the cost of poles and subways. 
For each subscriber or for the number of subscribers on a party-line, there 
are two wires to the exchange. These wires are idle all of the time that the 
telephone is not in use, which means from ninety to ninety-nine per cent of 
the time. To reduce the number of cable pairs the Bell company in G)lum- 
bus is placing two parties on a large number of its lines, this selection of two 
parties being made after experimenting with various numbers up to ten. 
To reduce the cable lengths the Bell company has established two branch 
exchanges designed to take care of large sections of the city, with trunking 
cable for the conveying of calls between the different exchanges and with 
extra operators for the handling of such trunking calls. The only saving 
by this process is in cable, against which are the charges for the duplicate 
grounds and buildings, some duplication of equipment, and some duplicate 
operating cost. The subscribers' cables, instead of converging to the main 
exchange, converge to the branch exchanges, with an element of waste in 
their length when they depart from a true line to that exchange through 
which they do their major business. With the branch exchanges laid out on 
a large scale, this departure from a truly economical line k ^^a^L. '^Sns:. 



i8 

Citizens Telephone Company is experimenting, with prospects of success, in 
the construction of branch exchanges of small units, whereby the maximum 
distance is traversed by trunking cable and the minimum by subscribers* 
cables. In these branches is the minimum equipment connecting with maxi- 
mium common equipment at the main exchange. Operation through the 
branch exchanges involves no additional operating employes and no addi- 
tional burden upon the subscriber, who is his own operator. There are fair 
prospects through further inventional progress of reducing the number of 
trunking wires below any proportion heretofore known, and of increasing 
the adaptability of existing cable plants beyond that of any plans heretofore 
known. 

The idle cable growing out of imperfect distribution, which I have only 
hinted at, will ordinarily represent more cost than the duplicated subscribers' 
circuits in cable. 

The new manual switchboard of the Bell company contains much dupli- 
cation or multiplication which I will not take space to describe technically. 
Invention may yet devise means of lessening this item of investment and 
expense. 

A wasteful condition on the ordinary switchboard results from the fluc- 
tuations in the traffic. The operators work at times under heavy pressure 
without keeping up with the demands upon them, and at other times are 
idle. Much has been done to equalize the traffic between operators, but 
there is still a large element of waste. Unnecessary duplication of operators 
is more wasteful than unnecessary duplication of poles.^ At least one of the 
Independent manufacturers has almost ready for the market a method of 
equalizing the work of operators, which promises to reduce this form; of 
waste. Others are engaged upon means to the same end. 

It is no essential part of the argument that the equipment in use by the 
company chosen for illustration is superior in economy to the equipment 
generally in use by the Bell companies. The point is that the wastes and 
duplications that are made the premises for argument against competition 
have not only been in large degree unpreventable, but are really relatively 
minor. The competitive telephone manufacturers and engineers are working 
to reduce the larger wastes. All that I aim to contend is that there is some 
expectation of success. Even if of the endeavors to put the plants upon a 
more truly economical basis of construction, operation and maintenance, 
nine are failures and one a success, the work of the ten may well be worth 
all their costs. 



^One operator's wages at $20 a month (not allowing for her supervision or her 
relief, or her equipment), will pay 6% interest and 6% maintenance and depreciation 
on five miles of 35-foot pole line, 6% and 2% on two miles of subway conduit, 6% and 
4% on three-quarters of a mile of 100-pair cable. 



19 

Monopoly Not the Most Progressive. 

If the telephone business has much to expect from invention and im- 
provement, is such invention more likely to follow from a competitive than a 
monopolistic condition ? Decidedly. A monopoly based upon franchise and 
organization has not the constantly pushing motive to improve its equipment 
and service. It will feel that it cannot afford to abandon existing equipment 
except for some important and large gain to itself from an improvement. 
Inventions seldom advance by such large steps. The monopoly may feel 
that the adoption of important improvements in one locality will need to be 
followed too rapidly in other localities, and hence will be slow to take the 
first step. Monopolistic interests, particularly if under any form of puiblic 
control, cannot so well afford to experiment with new forms of equipment 
or service. The same objections are not generally offered to patent 
monopoly. The patent laws are designed to encourage invention and are 
to be judged by their general results. It is hardly once in a generation that 
they permit the monopolization of a fundamiental principle of large public 
value completely without substitute. 

The history of the business shows that the Bell companies have not 
always put their improvements at the command of the puWic except at prices 
out of proportion to their costs. For several years after the Citizens Com- 
pany in Columbus was providing with all instruments the so-called long- 
distance transmitter (purchased in the market at $1.75), the Central Union 
Company was charging an extra twelve dollars a year for service of the 
same grade as the Citizens service. Within a year in Detroit, i. e., since the 
opening of competition in that city, the Michigan Bell Telephone Company 
has been taking out many of the still remaining old-style Blake transmitters, 
and making an extra charge for the modem transmitters. It is common 
testimony of Independent manufacturers of telephone apparatus that many 
inventions, which have since proved their value, were ignored or bought 
cheaply and shelved in the days of monopoly. In Columbus I have been told 
of one instrument that hung on the same wall in an office without change in 
transmitter, receiver, or other permanent part, for eighteen years. 

Other Arguments for Competition. 

We have given much space to the matters of rates and of wastes. We 
have given the matters of prospective commercial and inventional develop- 
ment less attention than they deserve. In restricting comment upon the 
relative solvency or efficiency of the competing telephone interests, I feel 
that any real inquirer is able to investigate such questions impartially. 

There was issued in February by the Ohio Independent Telephone 



20 

Association a pamphlet on telephone competition.* From this have been 
drawn some of the foregoing paragraphs. To this are referred readers 
who may be interested in Ohio telephone history and in pursuing other lines 
of argument against telephone monopoly. Among these are: The im- 
provemient brought about by competition, in multiplication and extension of 
lines and instruments, in service, in courtesy and its accompaniments, in 
equipment; the differentiation of the telephone business from gas, water, 
street railway, and other so-called "natural monopolies"; reasons for in- 
ability of combining local or long-distance companies to effect much sav- 
ing; the unique and immense value of the telephone, which, with its 
irreplace ability, makes almost any price paid for it cheap and competi- 
tion between systems particularly desirable; the specially valuable 
character of the existing competition between the large centralized in- 
terest and the many local interests ; the citation of the threatened compe- 
tition in the cities where it has not become actual; with answers to 
objections to the competitive condition and to assumptions of the prac- 
ticability and economy of a unified telephone system. 

Among the advantages of competition that would bear enlargement is 
the element of choice and alternative offered to the public. The moral effect 
of such choice is not only felt by the companies, but by the user also. The 
actual effect in case of the inability of either company to supply service in a 
given locality or in case of temporary or continued interruption of service 
on a line or an exchange (as from storm, fire, or strike), has been of great 
value. 

Possibilities and Value of Public Control. 

In the history of business of all sorts, competition has been the main 
reliance of the public against extortion or unfairness. It has proved its 
efficiency above any other working system, with only those exceptions that 
have been noted in late years in connection with such businesses as strongly 
tend toward monopoly. For dealing with such, two methods are proposed : 
Private ownership, with close governmental regulation or control ; and gov- 
ernmental ownership. Ownership of the telephone properties by the state 
is not at all under consideration. We have left as alternatives, for the safe- 
guarding of the public interests, telephone service under the condition of 
competition and under the condition of monopoly with state control. It is 
not supposed that the extreme is desirable in either case. The competitive 
condition involves certain state regulation, and the monopolistic condition 
involves some degree of freedom, with such small degree of competition as 
the telephone business has with other forms of public communication. 



•Reprinted in part in the American Telephone Journal of April 4, 11, and 18, 1908. 



21 

No objection is offered to such measure of control as aims to .prevent 
fraud, unjust charges, or arbitrary and unfair treatment of the public. 

I think it proper to point out that the natural and best form of business 
is that which requires just as little supervision and. imposes upon the state 
just as little as may be of burden, responsibility, and distraction from the 
state's own monopolistic duties ; that such industrial freedom and competition 
have proved their efficiency in by far the great majority of business forms ; 
and that to meet the exceptions, the practice of industrial regfulation by the 
state is relatively experimental ; and only to be entered upon conservatively, 
g^dually, and when other means fail. 

I think it can be shown conclusively, if it be necessary, that the telephone 
business is not of such nature as to be classed with necessary monopolies. 
It lacks the elements of exclusive occupancy of favored lands and of an in- 
creasing ratio of profits from' an enlarged business. There seems at present 
no tendency toward monopoly save such as results from the purposeful 
efforts of one or the other of the competitors. 

Is a Universal Service Worth Its Cost? 

There is a peculiar argument in favor of telephone monopoly that may 
carry some weight. That is, that the purpose of telephone service, namely, 
quick communication between persons at diflferent places, is defeated by just 
so much as they may be reached only by a different system than the one 
available to the persons desiring connection. Answers to this are found in 
an analysis of the condition under which telephone service is desired and paid 
for. There are two primary classes of telephone users : Those whose chief 
needs are m^t with a local system, with which are connected city protective 
deipartments, the physician, the pla(:e of employment, the regular grocer, the 
larger stores, and certain friends; and those who have need for a system 
which approaches "universality." No one can measure precisely these re- 
spective demands. To all appearances the first class is the larger numeri- 
cally, pays the larger amount in the aggregate, would lose more by a small 
advance in the rates and gain more by rate reduction. This class, seemingly, 
has the least to gain from increasing numbers on the exchange, although it 
may be said that it is only because of the general extension of the service 
that some of the particular connections desired by the individual are included 
in the list. It is also this extension that makes the price relatively less and less 
for the duplicate users. Those persons who need regularly only one system 
pay less than if they had all the connections of both systems. For them to get 
the use of the other system occasionally is seldom much burden or expense. 
Telephone rates at present (except in the largest cities) are based upon 
average uses. The subscriber pays so much for his opportunities, and bears 
his share of the general expense of the company, whethat \v^Ni&^%\jcs.^'^?:i^^i5^ 



r 



i>I^"5^*f>^T<*r<i.T*J¥r. 



-^T-*'^,^,'**1*'J*^^j^i-*.,C^-f^^ii^>>^'^i 






TELEPHONE COMPETITION HAS 



MuftfpHed telephones 

Lowered rates 

tm proved service 

Produeed mventions 

Sypplled vlHages 

Conneoted farms 

Ramified toil lines 

Enhanced telephone valuer 

Enhanced bueineet and lan<f values 



TELEPHONE COMPETITION |iAS NOT 

Divided any servFce that ever existed 

increased cost In equal ratio with 

utiHty 

Wasted much that the future won't 
use 



% 



V 



TELEPHONE COMPETITION IS NEEDED 

To watch the companies 

To give the public a choice 

To continue the growth 

To encourage inventron 

To develop the posslbilitres of the 
business 



TELEPHONE COMBINATION IS NOT NEEDED 

To conserve Investments 
To effect savings 

To provide public opportunities that 
cannot be had more cheaply 



I 
I 



I 



'6 



■:*5aw««s®®«©©®5ffiffl<w*'^» 



iswesc-ftC*: 



