Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


Ir 
50X1-HUM 


CLASSIFICATION CONFIDENTIAL 


Bees CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY REPORT 


INFORMATION FROM 
FOREIGN DOCUMEN’S OR RADIO BROADCASTS CD NO, 


COUNTRY — Runania DATE OF 
3 eal = Prana. 3 Mees 195 \ 

SEE iene mratan thebeaty SvPeratus, ovvcs, INFORMATION 153 
SocLological ~ Labor, lebor safety, welfare 

HOW Sconomie - “lanming DATE DIST. SQ. SxJan 1954 

PUBLISHED Deily nevepavers, monthly periodica. 

WHERE 

PUBLISHED Bucharest NO. OF PAGES ~~ 

DATE 


PUBLISHED 20 Jun - 31 Jur 1953 


SUPPLEMENT 
LANGUAGE tumontan REPORT NO. 


We COCLWENT CONTAINT RP ORE TTR NATIONAL DEFINE 
OF THE UNITED STATES, wiTutH THE MEANING OF TITLE 16, KEeTIONS 703 
AND TOA, OF THU UB, COOL, AB AUENDED, ITS tRansMias iON OR AtYESD 
MATIOM OF ITB CONTENTS TO OR RECEIPT GY AW UeAUTRORIZED PERECK 14] 


THIS IS UNEVALUATED INFORMATION 


SOURCE As indicated 


WLNOPAG DA OBJECTIVES, ACTIVITIz.. WaTiG 
+ A ee ne rere yee oe aL 


oummery: The following data were publishes: +: 

~ gnc Nou, orgen of the Soviet-Rumanian Friends: ip: 

ot Scanteia, organ of the Rumanian Workers Pari: 

organ of the Union of Working Youth, and Nunca 

Counc {2 of Trude Unions; and the July issue 
theoretical organ. 


CLs Cane 


An editoria:. appearing in the duly issue 
cated the purty propaganda objectives as the . 
Andustry, inerensed consumer foods, incresses 
caature, greatey social welfare, peace and frie 
c.untries, and « .ticter observance ef party «ce 
in uupta de Clas. called ror the improved trniutas ead 
mp propagandists to achieve this purpose. Nunerou, 
‘ hewspaupers illuctrate evrors in the applicutiou rf 

\dne which have been conmitted by party be 
‘tumanian Friendship Society, the Jnion of 
union organizations. 


s+ PROPAGASDA OBJECTIVES 6. THE PMR - - 


vin) ans anterea 


viare lomana, Ruman’ :. Feople's Rep... : 
Man, Ruv.ci- on - 4 


; : the FMR (Partidul Muncitorese 
workers sy). Phe \, Working on the pri cnet the devel. 
industry is the sade? vagis for eccnomic > ity in the RPR, © os 
itself chley with tha expans.. : OP prec c+ -quipment codustries., Fac -MR 


ay 
hos 


: . CLASSIFICATION CORPIDENTE 


. 


P sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


\ Z 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


I 


cit 


wt. 


wishes to emphasize, 
an end in itself. 
of the worker. 


Party organizations contribute to the fulfillment of the workers! 
by fighting to increase the quality and variety of products, 
and to increase central stockpiles. 


to increase the use of internal resources, 


In agriculture, party policy calls for greater 
The PMR has prepare 
it up to the level of ind 


needs of workers and of industry. 


CONWMFIDENTIAL 


however, that the development of heavy industry is not 
The purpose of socialist production is ; 
The development of heavy industry will strengthen the economy. I 
This in turn wil2 raise the standard of living, 


production to fulfill the 


. 


50X1-HUM 


to satisfy the needs 


needs 
to reduce prices, 


d a vast plan to expand 


ustry in order to fulfill 

It is trying to liquidate the 

tis plan provides for the consolidation 
for the intensification of agitation to persuade the 


peasantry to form TOZ (agricultural cooperatives) and collectives, and for 
aid to small and medium independent peasants to enable them to reach their full 


lead to an annual output of 10 million 


tons of grain, a quantity sufficient to solve the Rumanian grain problem per- 


The chief tasks of 
formation of new TOZ and 
liquidate errors in state 
Produce the major part of 


collectives, 


party organizations in agricul 
to strengthen existing collectives, to 
farm operations, and to supp 
Rumania's grain today. 


ture are to urge the 


ort small producers who 


The PMR devotes special attention to the exchange of goods between the city 


and the village, 
and consumer goods, 


and to an increase in food, industrial 


Compared’ to 1948, the 


amount of goods distributed to the masses from central stockpiles was three 


times as great in 1950, four times .as, great in 1951, 


‘Nevertheless, 
products still exist. 


urban workers:.with agricultural products. 
drought. of 1952, to the 
made by procurement and 
people's councils. The 
overcome these difficulties, 


In addition, 
budget allotments 
insurance, child and maternal care, 
are now five times as many hospital 
as many clinics. 
3,400 health stations in enterprises, 
up in 1951 and 1952. 
by the beginning of 1953. 
safety in enterprises than 
sent to rest homes. 


In 1952, 68 
in 1950. 


‘ ‘ of enterprise directors who show no interest in th 


: ‘labor welfare among the masses. 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : 


In 1952 


thése 


Plading ‘mere consuner goods of 


The party -does 
in supplying 


These. difficultsep :are, due. to- the 


‘agriculture, and.to.ssrious mistakes 


and th 


the party is increasing the wages of workers. 
are increased for teaching, 


beds as there were in 194k, 
More than 1,000 new dispensaries, 97 anti-epidemic stations, 
and 320 aid stations in villages were set 
A total of 1,135,000 cubic meters of housing was completed 
percent more money was spent for labor 
» more tha 
The FMR is vigorously combating the bureaucratic attitude 
e increased improvement in 


| ; 
CIA-RD 


ons, Cooperatives, state farms, 


the, G90 harvest of 1953 will 


and 


n 300,000 workers vere 


P80-00809A000700160114-6 eee 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


r 


7 | 50X1-HUM 


ot. 
CONFIDENTIAL 


In the political field, the party is Striving to remove capitalist elements 
such as exploiters and speculators and to protect the worker against them. The 
party is fighting to overcone bureaucratism in the state appuratus, to bring 
about strict respect for law, and to defend the rights guuranteed to citizens 
by the constitution. It will savagely liquidate any act that can compromise 
the alliance between Peasants and workers. The party is applying the Leninist- 
Stalinist policy on national minorities. This involves « fight to strengthen 
the fraternal ties between all nationalities living in Rumanie. 


The party is encoureging the advance of culture by supporting science, 
Literature, and art. 


The external policy of the RFR -ina of the entire camp of peace, democracy, 
and socialism which looks to the USSR for leadership is 2 policy of peace and 
defense of national independence, 2 policy entirely subordinate to the interests 
of the people. The policy of the government and the party states that there 
are no unsolved problems that cannot be solved by peaceful means through nego- 
tiations. The party and the government are fighting to strengthen the ties of 
the Rumanian People with the USSR and the other people's demceracies, 


All internal and external policies are set by the party in the interests 
of the people. While the conduct cZ policy is the chief duty of the party, 
local orgenizations and individual party members must fight to apply party policy, 
decrees, and instructions. Prinary party organizations must fight to strengthen 
party discipline, and to educate party members in the observance of decrees and 
in the prompt and energetic combating of 211 those who carry out these decrees 
in a formal or liberal manner. : 


II. SELECTION AND TRAINING oF PROPAGANDISTS 


A. Poor Propaganda 


A decree issued recently by the Cantrcol Committee of the FMR emphasized 
the importance of the ideological and political training of propagandists. 
The propagandist is the centrel figure in party education. The quality of 
the propagandist and his training in party theory determine the level cf propa- 
ganda throughout the RPR, since the propagandist forms the chief link between 
the party and the masses. In 1953, raion and city party committees have selected 
more propagandists than 2ver before. Kany of these men will be active for the 
first time. Therefore, their training must be very well planned. 


In the past, Many courses for the training of propagandists contained poorly 
prepared lectures which failed to point out the importance of party leadership 
in the building of socialism. Lectures on Marxism-Leninism were abstract and 
in no way connected with the struggle of the masses to create a new soetety. 
Thus, for example, a lecture on "The Economies of the Period of Transition fron 
Capitalism te Socialism," presented at the Evening University of the Timisoara 
Regiune Party Committee, failed to emphasize the leadership of the party in the 
industrialization of Rumania or in the socinlist transformation of agriculture. 
It did not mention the vital interest of the m.sses in the strugjle to crush 
capitalist elements. This lecture failed to fulfill ite prinury purpose, to 
aid listeners to acquire a2 thorouch knowledge of Narxism-Leninisn and of party 
policy, in order that they be mobilized te fight for the building of socialism 
in Rumania, < 


Some propagandists lecture in abstract terms, neglecting to mention the 
specific duties and activities of party organizations. any Dropegandists sonfinc 
themselves to theoreticzl issue: vnd devot? only = fev sentenses to the appli- 
cation of these iseanan +9 Rumanin.. Thus, for ¢ ple, 2 lecture on "The Transition 


- oa ae 


COURTDEVTIAL 


RES Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A0007001601 14-6 a PF 


se ey, 
Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A0007001601 14-6 


r 


i | 50X1-HUM 


nig CONFIDENTIAL 
” oe to the New Economic Policy,” presented to propagandists in Grivita Rosie Raion, 


Bucharest City, contained the simple statement that the soviet New Economic i 
Policy has been fully applied in the RPR. However, no anelysis was made of 

the details of the application of the policy in the RPR, nor were Rumanian 

decrees promulgating this policy discussed. There was no veference to the 

application of the policy in Bucharest Regiune. No mention was made of the 

errors which occurred in the application of the polics, und no suggestions were 

Biven for iaproved results. 


Many propagendists merely present a collection of quotations fron Nasniste 
Leninist classics in their lectures, and fail to deel with Rumanian problems, 
This represents a mere mechanical repetition of formulus and demonstrates no 
; understanding of the party line. A knowledge of these classics and of BUR 
co documents is mandatory for every propagandist, since it guarantees proper 
orientation, but lectures must contain practical examples of the application 
of Marxist-Leninist principles. 


The Centrai Comittee of the PAR desires that party organizations vigorous ly 

combat this abuse of Juotations, which in most cases conceals an juability to 

e picture Marxism-Leninign in action or to apply Marxist-Leninist theories in 
perty work and in the socialist transformation of society. It is also necessary 
to combat the tendency of many propagandists who simply compile quotations from 
Pamphlets and articles, This leads to abstractness and fails to deal with 
current party problems, a practice which cuts down the theoretical level of 

propagandists. 


One of the chief duties of propegandists is to combat and unmask hostile 
theories of the enemies of Marxism-Leninism. Some propagandists are content 
to combat these theories in a formal manner, that is to say, without explanations 
and arguments or examples of their f:1lse content. It must be made clear to 
every propagandist thut he is an active fi:shter on the ideological front, and 
in this quality he is entrusted with the creat responsibility of disseminating 
Marxist-Leninist teachings among the misses. 


The lack of sufficient knowledze o2 Marxist-Leninist theory is the basis 
for errors and fulsification in lectures and for most of the oversimplification 
and vulgarization of the problems of building socielism. This leck of knowl.edze 
is very damaging to the political and ideological educetion of party members. 
For example, the lecture on "The Bolshevik Party in the Fight for the Soot. i tat 
Industrislization of the RFR,” presented by the 1 Mai R .ion Party Oonmittee in 
Bucharest, shows the superficiality with waich propegindists prepare lectures. 
This lecture dealt with one oversimplified theme. Propagandists wore content 
with the mere mention of a few Marxist-Leninist theses on the iadustr} 
of Rumania, but completely omitted capital problems such as the pur 
industrialization, the purpose of the alliance between work 
and the superiority of socialism te capitalism and the fundament:] diz 
between the two. Such errors seriously prejudice efforts to raise the thecretical 
level of cadres. 


In order to fulsjli the important role which they Aave in party teria, 
propiganda lectures iaust + ra)? Prepared. However, many Propacandists tend 
vo cover too many protien: oo each Lecture. Consequently, svudents Le =n discos. 
A lecture which includes too .uch 2annot orient the student Clecrly on 2aptral 
problens. 


B. Poor Selection, Training of Propagandists 


The FAR is Gevoting special attention to the education «ind selection of 
its propagandists. It is increasing the nwiber and inprovin,; the education of 


these men. Permenent seninars of bropagenidists, first introduced into the party ‘ 
mp 
», 
. CONFIDENTIAL 
¢ 


0114-6 


Le 


MEME Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08. CIA-RDP80-00809A00070016 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


r 


° 50X1-HUM 


° CONFIDENTIAL 


teaching system in 1952, have contributed to perfectin:; their twcining. The 

decree issued recently by the Central Committee of the ENR provides for improved ' 

et and increased recruitment of propagandists during tho 1..53-L554 school I: 
year.(1 ; 


Tke decree called for the submission of a list of party members and party 
candidates to be treined as Propagandists by 30 August 1953. These students 
must be carefully chosen, and the terrible errors of the pist which decreased 
the value of teaching in party circles and courses must be liquidstc?. The 
party press must constantly publish articles on purty teaching, Criticinirs 
errors in propaganda and emphasizing the need for greater purity and ideological 
content in party teaching.(2) Many poorly prepared persons, ignorant of theory 
and unsatisfactory from a political point of view, were sent to party schools, 
Some party committees and primary partv orgoniz.tions chose prop:gandists in 
2 bureaucratic manner. Others, as a result of poor political vigilance, chose 
unsuitable individuals with dubious political backgrounds. Such elements vere 
discovered and removed in Gurahont, Arad Regiune, for example. In Timisoara 
and Bucharest city, Propaganiists addressed party circles on subjects which they 
themselves had never studied. The priaary party organization of the Baicoi oil 
field did not choose a single petroleum enineer as Dropagandist. In Ploesti 
city, very few intellectuals were mobilized propagand:sts.(3) 


The Hunedoura Regiune Party Committee made special provisions to carry out 
the decree of the Central Committee of the PAR for improving mass political 
work. The Regiune Party Committee snd secretaries of primary party organizations 
held seminars and classes to give instructions on the selection of agitators 
and prop2gandists. However, many primary perty organizetions chose inactive 
persons without prestige cmong the messes. Many party orsanizations adopted 
2 formal attitude toward political zgitation, limiting themselves to stutistics 
or tables listing the number of agitators «nd their talks, without an analysis 
of the ecntent 2nd results of their work. The Hunedour: Regiune Party Committee 
fought this type of formalism by directing raion conmittees and primary purty 
organizations to devote special attention to the Preparation of agitators. As 
& result, good agitution was carried on in regard to the international situntion 
and to the application of decrees. Primary party organizations were given ood 
support 2t the Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej Steel Plant, at the Simeria railroad 
yards, and at mines in Petrila and Lupeni. The regiune committee orgunized 
exchanges of experiences between agitators of the Petrosani and Lupeni mines 
and agitators of the steel plant and of railroad installations in Petrosani 
and Alba-Iulis. In addition, more than 200 agitators from agricultural enter- 
prises in Deva, Ilic, Hateg, and Hunedoare raions were called to 3 conference 
in Deve. 


Despite this thorough Preparation, however, numerous errors occurred. 
Many of the agitators limited themselves to local problems. Very few spoke on 1 
the achievements of the regime, on internal and foreign policy of the purty, 
or on international events. The regiune and raion committees failed to instruct 
agitators on how to recognize the needs of workers and how to satisfy their 
cultural and material needs. Agitators in Sebes Raion oriented their lectures 
improperly. They failed to enlighten the masses on the causes of their present 
difficulties or on the character of the past regime, and they riled to mobilize 
the masses to fight errors. Ion ardeleanu, first secretary, ind Miren Necsi., 
secretary of the Hateg Raion Party Committee, issued directives without making 
any check on the content of lectures, The Hunedvara ste siune Party Comittee 
as in whele failed to draw party und state activists into mass politice:) vork. (4) 


In Iusi Regiune, Propigendists were not given adequate support by the 
regiune committee, but were lo:ded with numerous other duties. For e: "a 
Propzgundist Ion Mane: of Jusi hed the following dulies in addition tc his 
e Propegands work: Lecturer it the 5-ménth party school, member or che adminis 
a trative committee of the usc (Societates pentru Hispundirea stiintei si Culturii, 
Society for the Dissenination 02 Science and Culture), member of ri michurin 
Society Cormittee, nd nnien official, in addition to his ow tr. (3) 
-5- 
_ CONFIDENTIAL 


e ahteoogtemoe tate ees ees . . ae tt 


* “am Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A0007001601 14-6 


’ 


80-00809A000700160114-6 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP 


Ir 


: 50X1-HUM 


, CONFIDENTIAL 


The propaganda and agitation section of the Central Committee of the PMR ee 
. recently sponsored a conference in Bucharest to discuss propaganda for the 1953- : my = 
ee - 1954 academic year. The conference was attended by secretaries of primary i ot) 
Party organizations in the city. Coganiceanu (fnu), chief of the agitation : 
and propaganda section of the Nicolae Balcescu Raion Party Committee, urged 
primary party organizations to unify selection of propagandists, and to do less 
superficial work in choosing candidates.(5) 


III. THE ORGANS OF PROPAGANDA 


A. PUR Organizations 


1. Increased Agitation 


Party organizations throughout the RPR have intensified agitation 
8s a result of the government and party decree. Ome of the chief duties of 
agitators, as stipulated by the decree, is that of explaining to the masses 
the party and state foreign policy, which seeks to consolidate peace, to 
prevent another war, and to strengthen the alliance of the RPR with the USSR 
and the People's Democracies. 


However, not 211 regiune party committees have successfully applied 
this decree. The Stalin and Craiova regiune party committees, for example, 
have been too bureaucratic and formal. They have concerned themselves with 
statistics alone, failing to contact the masses through subordinate organi- 
zations. This lack of interest by party organizations has resulted in too 
slow a reaction to internal and foreign developments.(6) The Suceava Regiune 
Party Committee drew up an urgent plan for state and party activists and 
econamic cadre to improve agitation and propaganda. The application of this 
plan was entrusted to Pintilescu (fou), assistant to the propaganda and 
agitation section. However, after 2 months Pintilescu had done nothing to apply 
the plan, claiming that the plan was too indefinite, and that Vilhelm Cubi, 
chief of the agitatica section, was on vacation. When Cubi returned, he declared 
that he knew nothing of the plan and that Alfred Bernstein, chief of the 
regiune propaganda section, then on vacation, was the person responsible for 
its application. 


Agitation work on the raion level is also unsatisfactory in Suceava 
Regiune. For example, Dumitru Sologiuc, chief of the agitation section of 
the Suceava Raion Party Committee, declared that he did not understand the 
subject matter of the decree and that Rosu (fnu), then absent from the raion, 
was responsible. This type of neglect can be blamed directly on Stefan Bobos, 
first secretary of the Suceava Regiune Party Committee, and on the raion con- 
mittees.(7) The 23 August Raion, Bucharest, recently held a conference to 
discuss increased aid to agitators in the raion. Agitators were directed to 
use as a guide the material published in issue No 2,704 of Scanteia and entitled 
: "Party Policy, Source of Victory for the Working Peopl2." Speakers at the 
"e conference pointed out that work in the Vasile Roaita plant, in the Noua Filatura 
; de Bumbac (New Cotton Spinning Mill), and in the Alex Sahia enterprise was poor. 
because agitators were not briefed and instructed, They did not understand 
party and government policies and they lacked initiative. Speakers also stated 
that primary party organizations of the raion, such as the organization in the 
Electroputere plant, maintained a record of the number of agitators! but made 
no attempt to check the content of their lectures .(8) 


~6.- 


CONFIDENTIAL 


CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


oy 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : 


1 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


50X1-HUM 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Agitation was particularly poor in the coal indusery. For example, 


numerous letters of complaint addressdd to the Petrosani Raion Party Committee : 
show that party organizations do not have adequate contact with the masses. I 
They neglcet Problems brought up by miners. Thus, many errors occurred in 

political &gitation at the Jieti-Lonea Mire despite the decree of the Central 

Comnittze cf the PAR for improved political agitation. Instructions to agitators 

were extremely unrealistic. Primary party organizations 1, 3, and § did not 

brief agitators at all. Ion Obru, secretary of Primary Party Organization 4, came 
to meetings Poorly prepared. In addition, prim: cy party bureaus did -int analyze 
their own mistakes. The party committee of the mine failed to realize she im- 
portance of political work for the fulfillment of Production plans. Zoltan Pop, 
chairman of the mine committee, and Ion Stana, chairmen of the propaganda and 
agitation committee, did nothing to improve this situation, Consequently, the 
mine failed to produce its full quota of coal for 2 consecutive months.(10) On - 
the other hand, 19 agitators at the Lupeni mines carried on agitation to over- 

come poor labor discipline and absence without cause, and tc encourage competitions. 
As a result, the production plan was fulfilled.(11) 


2. Agitation for Schvol Year 


The bureau of the Baia-Mare Regiune 

meeting to analyze the results of the 1952-1953 party school year and the 
. decree of the Central Committee of the PMR calling for improved educational 

work during the 1953~1954 school year. Errors made in 1952-1953 ineluded the 
low Level of evening party schools and circles, confusion in party seminars, 
errors in connection with the Hew Economic Policy, failure of the bureau to 
understand the importance of party teaching, and poor briefing of propagundists 
by raion committees. 4 similar meeting held by the Hungarian Autonomous 
Regiune Party Committee discussed the fact that the Proper content of party 
education was not adhered to during the 1952-1953 school yeur. (12) 


Party Comittee recently held a 


Members of the bureaus of primary party organizations in Stalin Regiune 
attended a general meeting to discuss preparation for party courses and circles, 
and the proper selection of propagandists for the 1953-1054 school year. The 
party education plan for the Steagul Rosu plant was discussed in detuil. The 
plant has 48 courses and circles, The selection of propayandists was good. 


The bureau of the Oradea Regiune Party Committee recently held a meet- 
ing to discuss mistakes in part; ceachttysin.tbe regiune during 1952-1953, und 
how to overcome them in 1653-195 “ ' Biscussion revealed that the 
regiune and raion party committees did not deal with propaganda in a satisfactory 


manner. Agitation and propaganda sections confined themselves to organizational 
matters and neglected the quality and contem of propaganda. No checks were 
made on lectures. 


The meeting itself committed & serious error when it confined 
itself to a discussion of the report of Vasile Lucaci, secretary of the regiune 
party committee's agitation and Propaganda section, althoush this report 
omitted the party decree for better agitation. As a result, the meeting 
devoted little time to the quakity of party teaching and failed to analyze the 
work of the propagand2 aktiy. The discussion following the report was carried 
on alngst exclusively by cuests. Only one member of the Oredea Regiune Party 
Bureau had anything to contribute. (17) 


Primary party organizations in public schools 
in developing millions of future ouilders of socinlism. 
of their agitation and the training of 

: concern. In Tudor Vladimirescu Raion, Bucharest city, for example, there are 

i 32 kindergartens and nurseries, 47 elementary and intermediate schools of various 
types, and two institutes of higher @ducation. Party activists in these schools 
operate under 24 primary party organizations. Many oF these organizations are 
not functioning properly, however. They do not work creatively, but merely 
duplicate or usurp the work of the school administration. Thus, the primary 


play an important role 
Therefore, the content 
their agitators should be of prinary 


-7- 
CONFIDENTIAL 


for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 ole 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


r 


: 50X1-HUM 
, CONFIDENTIAL 

4 
party organization of th Intermediate Technic. i malt wit 


e.lled 
n: this, 
nistration and 

3 ation: in inter- 
bilize n: vty members 
> % hostite inrluences, 
inds 0! che teachers. 


meetings of the schoo) council, fixed excninaticn * 
the primary purty organization interfered with the 

Neglected its mass political work. Many prinary 
mediate and elementary schools of the raion nesi 
and others to improve the education of students, 
and to uproot foreign concepts which still ex 
Consequentiy, only half of the teachers athe 


: vite a party 
and government decree issued on 16 --Ugust Sy Un top ~ hers to 
be educated in Mars: -Leninici.. 


The Tudov V 
ideologicn stand 
fact that the cecret 
submitted the nuns co. 
this teacher had |. a. 
Primary party or: ui: 
Tineretului Hun 
for example, in iv. 


“atiireseu 2 ton Fs 


“dled tc meet the 
: is is illustrated by the 
ary poy + nin sdorin Boys $ehool No 3 
Thde vane: 7 wand. training, although 

%, "Rls not against nationalism.” 
supervise the UIM (Uniune: 
GO phloneer orgenizations as, 


for Rouds and Bridges.(2) 


Uhet 


md: 


Sane You. 
ive Teenric: 


3. Seleeticn ON Gandid. cas 
The 5 és ‘02 62 the most important in +: 
< captitel, wes. at 


scC.ect party candidates. 
‘ud te the selection of » ri: 


“Her 


of the Contr. ly 
dates were cur! 
workers who .or 

party organin titer: 
secretary of 


»* selectces was high. 
: sped by bureaucrecy in 
2Aittee of the plant. Niecy) , 
“the plant, was particu 
ed 7 months to ansver 
wnivtee anulyzed these err: 


“: sto: 


Ss 


Prinsry Porty O20 mn! 
and § nonths fox: 
took no remedt.' «= 


plication 
‘Ss, but under- 


The bie + 
Plant in Orde: :. 
dites, in Giveel ot ined 
PA. Por this reason, many 


Mrivesy porhy organis.tion 932 the 35 
‘ purution for the select 4. 

ef the Centr: 

veubers o: the organization di: nw 


cm Ther ier 


ieee ae the 


r i fhe opiterd 
fer se tecests for sandidacy submitted k nontirs Tes 
otefan nd Ghizela Feber ing by UTM members Var 
Szun: 


tise Dombi hve still not been discussed. 
attitude toward she si ee La oP purty eondidates muss 


» City Camnittee :ausz -auce every effort to overcome 


rives undes its jurisdiction. (4) 


The prinary purty orsanization cf the V.I. 
in Bice: selev ed vtaknonevites Isidor Pop 2nd Puve 
Gheorghe Duda ig Kersy nondddates. The seicetion c° 


ised wiga 
interest in she x ruiting pliun and many leeding AOWES? > 
Gavril.. Rus, s siry of the prinary party ors Se eas Cs 
appli tore 


= meeting to discuss their av 


Primiy Ores 
eumera)l ues tn: 4 


a Lin city » Ug? 
fon ogee SG: 
wed shoom deeobion 
2 Ad Sliven 
a 


} aio te eisht verke 
ano bret hy 2 number 62 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Re 


r 


San 


\ 


i CONFIDENTIAL 


4. Agrdeulturs1 Agitution 


Agitators must congentrcate on Persuuding persunts to de iver 
quotas to the state, this is the chief topic of .itution during -n¢ 
the harvest campaign. agitators must point out the fuct that the 5 
aided the peesant throush the creation of MTS. Todey, throughout + 
there are 218 MTS equipped with 9,650 tractors snd worn then 25,0 crieurtur 
machines. Azitators must clso enphasize other Corns of uid ot the peasont 
by the state. ‘The agitater must tell the Peasant th o he buys i. Suoed 
by the vortzing class and in turn helps feed the vorler. (16) 


The Bucharest Regiune Furty Pommittee is striving tec < ‘ganize m sc 
politica) work in Preparation fer the harvest 2nd co'Lecticn e¢-mpaims, 
to raise the level of the content of apit tion. To achieve this, the jun. 
committee organized :: seminur with secret:rics of vaion » rity commit 
Propaganda and agitation prodlens. Lrocise instimetions we 
seminur on the c anivation ef meetin SS, be discuss the Jocree of 
Committee of the impreved a den. The deeroe cabied rey 
of collectives of aglieters to go fren house to house . ud so visi 
Platforms and srain ot lection centers. Lewing the seminar, cho 
organized two bri. .d i > and sent 3 
Draganesti, Rosiorii 
Primary party orjini 
12,000 agitztors in 


» ue majority 


work, but in Calarasi, ae 
“ston. of the 


of the primary Porty orcunti.é 
decree. (11) 


The Hungevi .n Vang by its 


experience of 19° a ee > “petitions 
in harvestin,: enc Treetey? ova % Of primary 
arty organiz ti 7 eo 5" 5 to mobilize 
the peasantry. Tho . me - However, 
the 1953 agitetion driv fs." 4 5 sc itions between 


communes, vitlicer, ond c.o 
TurgaeMures Rainn, th L! wter 
secretary cf the EM vy pasty ure 
contacted pensunts ¢.j iy. Interce 
ersenized in Chichis, Sount= 
Gornesti, the culture! ib 
artists and enters:iners Captured the hor: 


Gornesti Connmunc, 

vetre Man, 

Jo as Marda Suatyori 

“fons cist. ourcups of houses were 

; Bae., shogin ; ion, etc. In 

3 every sunluy. 2. -formances by Loe:.!. 
% chene.(:7) 


Hervest is orozresstn- wool dn Clursiu Raion as - resnlt of the inton- 
Sive polivtion! vor “ved oy the raion v-rty comictee. in nny coumun2s 
of the raion, “Sy in Clolunu, Belu, Vieru, ete., - 
cn inicnsive poli: house te house, showiay pei.s 
in their ow inter: in the bes } 
te ccaplete harves: Mth nu leuoese 
peas-nts Sit She ; 
fyon ve" livery of 
te 1S lneurred us 
geasanis thut it 


v an 22, dm reme sommune: 
nm remained serio: “shedul.. (Fo radon ec.- 
“Ri bow thas insted o ef? sith phone 


OUPIDENTT. 1, 


itized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A0007001601 14-6 


lease 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


50X1-HUM 


* 


Sanitized Copy Ap 


calls to inquire about the progress of threshing and collections. Agitation 
was poor in Turbatu, which conse 
Stoiaun Genta, secretary of the puimary party organization, failed to instruct 
The raion committee, 
Siminea, first secretary of the raion committee, 


agitators in specific tasks. 


Properly in many communes. (9) 


The collective and the agitators of the 
state farm, Braila Raion, impr 
peasents in conformity with the decree 


the Urleasca 


secretary of the 
tasks 
political agitation. The 2h 
briefed on subjects to discuss 
of these measures, the harvest 


primary party 


In Tatari Cormune, Ploesti Regiune 
connection with the harvest were peor. 
areas or to discuss new methods. 
tc draw peasents into competitions .(18) 


harvest achievements in other 
party organization failed 


Agitation work 
The primary party or 


studied means for improving this situation. 
party organization led to the selection of 
These were Iuliu Szekely, 


time leeding workers. 


Gheorghe. These 2gitators vere assigned 
=) ! 


secretary of the primary party 
developments. 


the fulfillment of the harvest 
B.  ARLUS 
1. Soviet Methods 


proved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


facing members of the state 
agitators cof the primary party organization were 


in Telechiu Commune, Alesd Raion, 
genization, with the aid of 


The person:l exauple and ins 


50X1-HUM 


CONFIDENTIAL 


quently trailed in the harvest. In Ghizdaru, 
and particularly Gheorghe 
failed to organize agitation 


primary party organization of 
oved political agitation aniong 

of the Central Committee. Ion Jantes, 
organization, instructed agitators to talk about 
farm and to use all possible means or mass 


in connection with the harvest. As @ result 
plan of the farm was fulfilled.(15) 


» agitation and political work in 
agitators Jid little to publicize 
The primary 


was also very poor. 
the raion party committee, 

4 general meeting of the primary 
new ugitators, who were at the same 
Alexandru Csiki, and Alpareanu 
groups of houses. Fracise Fekete, 
orisnization, kept them informed of current 
tructions of these agitators led to 
plen.(10) 


ARLUS (Asociatix Romane pentru Legaturile de Prietenie cu Uniunea 


Sovietieca, Soviet-Rumanian Friendship society), through its 
» and enterprise circles, disseminates information 


regiune 2nd raion cowmittees 
On advanced Soviet methods and 
Five-Year Plan in 4 years. 
Timisoara, Arad, ~nd ot 
These regiune committees 


collaboration with parcy and scientific organt 


Job of popular 
ganizations, 


lathe operators attended. 


ference for miners of Aning and 


Some ARLUS organizations, includin 
ther regiunes, obtained good results 
» Under the direction of purty organizaticns and in 


izing Soviet methods without us 
The Galati Regiune 
nunber of conferences on Soviet 

In Timisoara 


General Council, 


rvise encourages workers to fulfill the 
& those in Galati, 
in this direction. 


othe 


2 


zations, carried on taorough 
urping the functions of other or- 
ARLUS Comaittee, for example, orgenized u 
rapid metal-cutting methods. A totel of 160 
Regiune, the committee organized a con- 
Secul on Soviet rapid mining techniques. The 


Bacau Regiune Comittee organized 32 conferences ~nd 117 discussions, attended 


by 5,000 workers. 


However, usny serioy 
organisations were : 
selves to discussicus 
with trade union organic. 
enterprises. Thus, their 


¢ 


cLe 


was publicizid 


ilty of PSormulis 
2 jeviet methods 
P 


siltation benesited 

occurred in Cluj Regiune, where the Kolesoy iat 
at a firevocd plant, « chemiz: 
in Pitesti, “his method yas populnrined nt 


formalism was the tendency of /RLUS corsanin 


creyped up in this drive. Many ARLUS 

+ diny ARLUS activists limited then- 

in Senerl. They did not collaborate 
specific needs of individual 

“N2. One example of Sormalisna 

od of the revid cutting oF metals 

i plant, and a beet sugar refinery. 

: Le will. another type of 

te contuct Stakhanovites 


errors 


+ the 
3 the 


in deter 


Lo - 


COIDEMTIAL 


Searees 


11/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A0007001 60114-6 jie 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 20 


\ 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 201 1/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A0007001601 14-6 


r 


50X1-HUM 


CONFIDENTIAL 


and leading workers while neglecting technicians ana other workers entirely. 


In Pitesti, Constanta, and Stalin regiunes where this occurred » the regiune 


ARLUS committees forgot that plan fulfillment does not depend on Stakhanovites H 
and leading workers alone. 


Some regiune and raion ARLUS 


enterprise circles in the popularizati 
entirely. 


competitions and in popularizing advanced methods. 
Regiune ARLUS Committee » Tore 
administrative units in organizing u Stakhanovite day. In Craiova Regiune, 


the ARLUS organization sponsored practical demonstrations of the Kolesov method 
instead of confining itself to propaganda, 


ARLUS must popularize new methods through propaganda alone and must 
not interfere with the operations of other organizations. Regiune and raion 
committees and enterprise circles nust regularly organize conferences and 
discussions on Soviet innovations and rationalizations. To assure the success 
of these conferences, they must wake full use of press articles, pamphlets, 
and books dealing with Soviet Stakhanovites, as wll as documentary material 
mede available by the General Council of ARLUS. ARLUS organizations must 
"fight with passion" to introduce Soviet methods 


ARLUS activists must constantly raise the level of 
their econamic knowledge, study documentary material on Soviet methods, and 
carefully study the specific needs of enterprises where these methods are to 
be popularized. In addition, ARLUS Organizations must collaborate strictly 
with UIM and ASIT (Asociatia Stiintifica a Ingenierilor si Tehnicienilor, 
Scientific Association of Engineers and Technicians) circles.(19) 


One of the most effective means of political agitation used by ARLUS 
is visual agitation. This includes photomontages, window displays, posters, 
and exhibits. A vigorous visual Propaganda campaign was carried out in the 
city of Bucharest in May 1953, not only.to popularize Soviet methods, but to 
inform the masses of the reduction in’ prices in ‘the USSR, of the tenth anniver- 
sary of the Moldavian SSR, of the 250th anniversary of the founding of Leningrad , 
etc. Numerous circles in the 23 August works, Vasile Roaita, Grivita Rosie, 
the Constantin David Mill. the Ministry,of Railroads, and other enterprises 
and organizations carried on this drive with the aid of materials supplied by 
the General Council of ARLUS and the ARLUS city committee. These displays 
ss of the USSR to 
o improve industry, agriculture, and the 


ARLUS circles in enterprises used various types of visual propaganda. 
For example, the ARLUS circle of the Dinamo plant used photographs of the 
works and lives of Soviet Stakhanovites Pavel Baykov, Antonina zhandarova, 
Olga Agafonova. The bureaus of the ARLUS circles in Fabric: de nedicanente 


No 7 (Pharmaceutical Plant No 7), Vaile Roaita, and others, encouraged activists 
with artistic talent to draw up displaya. 


ond 


However, many enterprises and organizations did not cooperai:. in this 
drive. Some bureaus did not hold meetings to analyze the effectiveness of 
their work. Displuys at Armatura, Semanatoarea, Drum Nou, and other enterprises 
did not deal with the Proper themes. This shows that the bureaus of the circles 
of these enterprises did not appreciate the significance of this visua} drive 
and that the raion organization did not supply them with enough materi-::, ARLUS 


“Tse 


CONFEDENTIAL 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


r 


: 50X1-HUM 


, CONFIDENTIAL 


organizations throughout the capital tended to neglect leading problems in 
the USSR, such as the fight for peace, the activities of Soviet scientific 
institutes, the work and life of Soviet students, etc. | 


2. Agriculture 


The ARLUS circle in Cotofenii-din-Fata, Craiova Regiune, organized 
humerous political-cultura) celebrations and conferences to prepare peasants 
for the harvest. For example, a conference held on 13 June and attended 


of the entire Soviet people. The ARLUS circle proposed the organization of 
eight conferences to popularize Soviet kolkhoz methods and to report on the 
eagerness of members to supply cities with vegetables. The circle concerned 
itself with the popularization of Soviet books, and displayed photomontages 
showing Soviet peasants Preparing for the harvest and the happy life of children 
in the USSR. However, Purcarelu (fnu), chairman of the agriculture section 

of the raion ARLUS organization, has done little to support this circle or 

to aid peasants in familiarizing themselves with Soviet methods . (6) 


The ARLUS organization of Sannicolaul-Mare Raion summoned chairmen 
of ARLUS circles in state farms and villages to a meeting to discuss support 
of the harvest campaign. Activists published articles in wall newspapers and 
other papers on the work of Soviet kolkhoz members in preparing for the grain 


Soviet documents to describe the rich life of collective members and the close 
bonds between villages and cities in the USSR. Discussions were held by brigades 
of collective farms in Comlosul-Mic, Periam, Gelu, Lenauheim, etc, However, 
ARLUS circles remained inactive in Igris, Baratetz, Grabati, Sandra, and other 
communes .(20) 


3. Activists 


The Targoviste Raion ARLUS Committee recruited a collective of 12 
activists to improve the work of the 145 ARLUS circles in the raion. These 


free time to teaching ARLUS circles in the city of Targoviste. The results 
obtained by these activists were soon apparent. Hundreds of new members were 
signed up at the State Bank, the URCC (Uniunea Raionala Cooperatiei Camerciale, 
Raion Union of Trade Cooperatives), the Higiean Cooperative, the Octombrie 
Rosu enterprise, etc. Dozens of subscriptions to ARLUS publications were sold. 


However, these activists were assigned to circles without regard for 
their knowledge or qualifications. Furthermore, the activists actually performed 
the functions of the raion tureau while the members of the bureau concerned ° 
themselves solely with figures and schedules. The raion bureau failed to 
hold regular monthly meetings to discuss errors. It assigned abstract tasks 
to activists and failed to agitate for fulfillment of the 1953 production 
plan in 11 months through the use of Soviet methods. The harvest campaign 
and the socialist transformation of agriculture were not supported, 


The poor work of the raion bureau, despite the use of these volunteers, 
was largely due to the poor Support given by the regiune committee and the 
General Council of ARLUS. The Targoviste Raion ARLUS Committee can improve 
its agitation by increasing the number of activists and by mobilizing more 
workers, peasants, and intellectuals with ARLUS experience. The qualification 
of each activist must be considered and he must be assigned tc areas familiar 
to him. For example, men sent to villages must de familiar with agricultural 
problems. (20) 


The use of unpaid activists by the Suceava Raion ARLUS Committee, 
under chairman Petru Calarasu, produced good results in some instances. The 
activists formed a collective which Supervised the activities of circles. such 


ase 
We 5 
a é aes 
4 : 
‘ * nal 
cia . 


c 


Sanifizad Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 eel 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A0007001601 14-6 


CONFIDENLIAL 


50X1-HUM 


as listening to the ARLUS hour on Radio Moscow, writing letters to Soviet workers, 


ation through radiofication stations.. However, the work i 
as not completely satisfactory because they had so many ie 
The raion committee 
t of activists in order to overcane this situation. 
result, 65 new circles of listeners were organized to hear the ARLUS hour in 
Simnicea, Scheial, Brudjeni, and other areas. The collective of lecturers of 
the ARLUS Raion Committee talked at affairs sponsored by circles in 26 villages 
and many enterprises. Lectures in villages dealt with the activitic. °F Soviet 
kolkhozes. More than 78 circles in the raion heard lectures on "The Day of 


Victory," presented on 9 May. The raion committee planned monthly meetings 
to analyze the work of the unpaid activists. (19) 


The Hungarian Autonomous Regiune ARLUS Committee is making an effort 
to attract intellectuals to aid in propaganda and in the documentation of lectures. 
Many intellectual workers of Targu-Mures were recently invited to a synposium 
on the topic "Participation of Soviet Intellectuals in the Building of Socialism." 
At another meeting, professors «nd inventors aided the regiune committee to 
discuss the preparation of soviet students for examinations. Minutes of this 
meeting were distributed anong ARLUS circles in schools and helped many students 
pass their final examinations. The ARLUS committee of the city of Targu-Mures 
supervised discussions conducted in intermediate and higher educational 
institutions to persuade students to participate in ARLUS activities in villages, 
cities, and health stations during vacations. The regiune conmittee also 


sponsored discussions and symposiums presented by raion committees and circles 
to give students returning from the USSR an Opportunity to convey their 
impressions of that country. (19) ; 


4. Press in Agitation 


In order to support its cultural-political work, ARLUS publishes Veac 
Nou, an illustrated monthly entitled URSS-azi (USSR Today), and a periodical 
entitled Noviy Vek (New Century), all of which popularize the achievements of 
coumunism in the USSR. These publications emphasize the fight of the USSR for 
peace, the building of a happy life, Soviet -.dvancea methods, the achievements 


of Soviet art and science, etc. Thus, these publications greatly aid the work 
of ARLUS members and other workers. 


In addition, Veac Nou popnlurizes examples s° 
of good work in ARLUS organizations and thus contributes to the improve ent of 


the work of the entire associution. 


The value of these publications was recently emphasized at conferences 
of ARLUS organizations held in Bucherest, Ploesti, Galati, and Braila, and at 
the Scanteia und Grivita Rosie collectives. Speakers it these conferences 
stressed the value of articles on new methods in metzllurgy, textiles, and 


other fields, on ways of organizing work in enterprises and collectives, 
and on the cultural life of the USSR. 


ARLUS publications provide activists with good material for their 

talks. However, there sre still many activists who io not uote hese publi- 

cations. Activists of the Buch:rest Raion Committees :re guilty in this 

respect. Members of the G.l ti City ARLUS Committee stated thitthey were 

so busy working in the tield thit they tould not find time to rend “RLUS pubii- 

cations. On the other lend. the Clu? weziune Committee encour .ged gre ter use . 
of published materials o: coumsctees and circles in railroad inst:.llations, in 

the Ianos Herbak plant in Cluj, and in the Industrin-sacmei in Turda. 


The majority of the regiune ARLUS commitivees farmed brigades to orz.nize 
the instruction of .etivists in reions. Meetia;,s were held with chairnen of 
cultural. circles. These mertings were successta! in Cluj and Floesti, but Less 
so in Arad Regiune where -cO of the 674 circles nd nce subscriptions to ARLUS 


prove 


d for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 Pee] 


Sanitized Copy Ap 


' : ee: 2 , > i : : oS 5 
Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114 


r 


50X1-HUM 


a CONFIDENTIAL 


publications. Another 104 of the circles hud no press chvirmen. In Baia- 
Mare and Constanta, committees failed to popularize ARLUS Publications. In | 2 
Bucharest city, the ARLUS committee bureau claimed that other duties prevented i 
it from devoting any attention to the press. 


Many activists showed a bureaucratic attitude in selling subscriptions. 
For example, some members of the propaganda ind documents section of the General : 
Council of ARLUS and instructors of the Council were more interested in the a 
number of subscriptions than ia supervision of the manner in which they vere 
Procured. Some regiune and raion bureaus and circles set up subscripticn i 
quotas without bothering to instruct those who were entrusted with popularizing 
the vress. 


Regiune and raion committees showed no interest in the wishes and needs 
of their readers, They merely checked to see if the papers arrived, These 
committees failed to collaborate with organs of the Ministry of Posts and Tele- 
communications to improve press dissemination. ARLUS editors receive many 
letters complaining of poor dissemination of the Press by organs of this ministry. 
Some complrints state that Veac Nou arrives late; others state that they never 
receive the paper although they paid for subscriptions. In Insuratei, Galati 
Regiune, 190 subscribers of the Grivita Rosie Collective failed to receive any 
papers for the first quarter of 1953. Consequently, only six renewed subscrip~ 
tions for the second quarter. Complaints fron the Oradea railroad install stion, 
from the Progresul plant in Braila, end from Vasile Roaita Commune in Consvunta 
stated thet poor addressing wus responsible for the loss of newspapers. (20) 


Recently, editors of Veac Nou attended a conference with readers in 
Gulati. Twenty persons who addressed the conference criticized the editors for 
mistakes and made suggestions for improvement. Men from Sovromnaval and the 
railrond workshop in Galati complained that technical articles on new Soviet 
methods were infreruent and lacked illustrztions. A reader from tne WN. Cristea 
Plant compliined that the piper did not discuss methods of rolling or other 
phases of the stecl industry. Other speakers declared Veac Nou to be negligent 
in discussing Soviet law snd justice, labor reserve schools, pedagogical training, 
cultural-artistic activities in Soviet schoois, the life of Soviet artisan 
cooperative members, the experiences of Soviet students, etc. Speakers criti- 
cized the Galati City ARLUS Committee for poor press distribution.(20) 


Cc. ume 
1. Duties 


The UTM faces a task of great responsibility ~- the communist education 
of youth and the nobilization of youth to fulfill the Five-Year Plin. The 
successful achievement of these duties requires a high level of ings political 
work and close ties between UT Orginizations and the mass of unorganized youth. (<1) 
Current emphasis in Ui agitation is on the mobilization of youth to Pulfill 
the 1953 state plan, on the harvest and collection drive, and on preparation 
for the tyoworld youth festivels ir Bucharest. UT administrative organizations 
must strengtien primcry organizations to enable them to mobilise youth. City 
and raion UT cormittees must aid primary UT! orsanizations through the polit - F, 
ical education of ouns people.(21) UTH orzunis-tions must maintain strict 
ties with yout? in factories, viliuszes, collectives, sehowls, and universities 
in order to attract more “nd mere youths to eduetionel productive work. The 
Orginizations must eduente the masses of youn, people in order to ruise their 
professional qualificutions and to instill in them 2 love of work and discipline. (--) 


Each primary orginization has its own 'oeal problems in xdditicn ta 
duties common to all. Thus, the Segavcea Rion JIM Committe: it prinurily 
concerned with agriculture, und therefore is esrrying on scits tion through 


othe 


a. ‘ 
. : i 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


r 


7 CONFIDENTIAL 50X1-HUM 


primary organizations in NTS und through mobile libraries tc brepare youth 
for the harvest. AlL vegiune, raion, and city UTM committees nust vecuse fumiliar 
with the specific problems of their primary organizations. This requires that 
secretaries and agit:tors of these organizutions visit factories, villeges, 
collectives, state farms, and institutes in order to discover the problems 
facing youth. They must fight bureuucracy by speaking with individual UTM 
members and not only with secretaries of primary organization. The visit of 
an agitator to a primary organization can be of value if he does not deprive 
the organtzution of its functions. For example, whea Ion Topola, instrnetor 
of the Tudor Vladimirescu Piioa UM! Committee, visited the Tehnica Cons. -hti 
enterprise, he discovered thit poor production discipline «mong youths was 
caused by poor politic: work on the part cf the UIM prinery organization. 

The organization had grown to 100 members and wis too unwieldy to be effective. 
He suggested the form: ion of five UDI control posts (posturi de control). On 
the other hand, the Arad Reciune UT: Committee bureau ordered that 11 primary 
organizations confine their asitation to 2 prescribed seven topics, thus 
limiting their freedom of action.(_1) 


2. Mobilizution of Youth 


UIM instructors are to be used for the edue :tion of youn; people «ni 
for strengthening ties between the rion coumittees ind the masses through 
primury organizations. A good exanple of the uchievements of UTM instructors 
may be seen in Tudor Vludimirescu Raion, Buchzrest. These instructors Learned 
the best mans to organize youth by reading Konsormol, Din Sxperienta Consomului, 
and the party life columns of Seanteia und Scanteis Tineretuiui. Instructors 
of the raion were «ssigned to Various enterprises and schools. “ach instructor 
studied the problems of each primary organization at the place of assignment, i 
and contacted the secretary of the party orginizution, members of the Ul: 
committee, and members of the UT primary organization, 


For example, an inspection iade by Ion Topila, instructor of the Tudor 

Viadimirescu Raion UTM Committee, at the Flncura Rosie plunt revealed that 

UTI work was poor and members of the UT Committee did not partieipete in 

the administration of primury orsunizations. The instwuccsr, with the aid of 

the party organization, discovered thit tne secretury o7 the UN! primtry 
organizations was the son of a Inlok ond wig trying to hinder the work of his 
own organization. Consequently, he was unm:sked ond rept sced by Constantin 
Georgescu, a good UT member .(23) ‘The UT! primary orgainiz.tion of the Irinin 
Sencovici factory is not currying out its task of nobilizing cil young people 

“ to engage in eduention«l and productive vork. ‘There is vridenes ef secturiini 

: Only UIM members sre drawn into activities. The ? csory party or ganization 
called the attention uf the ULI commitice to this site tion nad directed it te: 
take the education of youth more seriousiy.(2.) 


Andrian Efimov, UIM organizer in Brigz.de clu 1) of She Tntveprindore: 
Piscicola (Jurilofea Fishing Enterprise), Constant, complainzd thet the ecmmuic 
UIM primary organization was operating poorly. The education of youth wes 
being neglected. As = result of his complaint, politic: hows began to 
mobilize unorganized youth. UT members decided ty use Sree time co Miscuss 
and read newspaper articles cand pamphiets -nd to Orix c 
teams .(21) ' 


bL3G0 coger ties with 


The Buzeu Raion uy Con itteeis stvi 


the musses of youth, to improve iobistestion. vresuic, UI menbers one 
other young people bring problems to th. reton soumittce 2 ctly. Yee example, Usih- 
road Trade School Wo 3 in Buzeu informed the ec ttee of the aapeoper atbise 


of Vasile Servan, director of the school, toward the stulenus. In c 
Alexandru Plorescu, first secretary of the raion counitte: ‘sited © 
and found this to be true. He brought te mutter to the cienvion of 


2 school 


2 te ceniiay 


CONFIDENELAL 


E : | 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


\ 


: Toe ce he ee 
Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A0007001601 14-6 


r 


50X1-HUM 


A CONF IUENTIAL. 


and helped students of the local girls' school td arrange a visit to the Berca 
O11 Field. The Buzau UIM committee further mobilized more than 15,000 UIM 
members and other young people for the harvest.(2h) 


Many UIM primary orgenizations in Ramnicul-Sarat Raion, Ploesti Regiune, 
are carrying on intensive agitation to attract new members to the UIM, according 
to the report of Vasile Marcu, secretary of the organizations section of the 
raion committee. As a result, 350 youths recently entered the UTM. Particularly 
good results were obtained in the Ziduri Collective aad in the 1 Mai Metallurgical 
Cooperative. New members are given a communist education and are heiped to 
increase their work capacity. They are then given specific UTM duties. (25) 


Iosif Lobodics, first secretary of the Timisoara Raion UTM Committee, 
reported that the committee had analyzed the operations of two of the UIM 
primary organizations in the raion. One of these, the UIM primary organization 
of the Ceramica plant, operated without plans. It accepted no new members, and, 
as & result, included only 25 Percent of the youths in the factory. The vureuu 
of the organization sponsored very few cultural, art, and sports activities in 
Preparation for the festivals in Bucharest. It failed to educate youths or to 
mobilize them for productive labor. On the other hand » the UIM primary organ- 
ization of the Ortisora Collective had better results. The content of its 
agitation was richer. It tried to attract youths to work. As a result, there 
were no absences and many youths took part in sports and cultural activities. 
The raion bureau, in analyzing its own work, discovered that much was yet to 
be done in the education of youth and in the application of party policies. 

It learned that many youths had expressed a desire to make better use of their 
free time. As a result, the bureau organized an artistic team of 80 youths. 
The Dinas UIM primary organization mobilized youths to clean up and beautify 
the comune. In Jimbolia, youths gave 4,500 hours of voluntary labor to build 
a pioneer house. The Cenei Commune UIM organization invited youths to a con- 
ference on "The Life and Rights of Youth in the RFR." As a result of these 
measures, youths throughout the raion applied for membership. (26) 


The UIM primary organization committee in the Gheorghe Gheorghiu- 
Dej Sovron-utilaj-petrolifer (Petroleum Equipment) Plant in Targoviste carried 
on agitation to mobilize youths to fulfill the production plan for petroleum 
equipment .(27) 


UIM committees all over the country are preparing for the Bucharest 
youth festivals. However, the Strehaia Raicn UIM committee failed to mobilize 
the youths of the raion. It even "forgot" that e UIM primary organization 
existed in Gura-Menitii village and therefore did not contact it. Thus the 
village added no new members in 1953, although many youths applied, and drew 
up no plan to prepare for the congresses. The Strehaia Raion uTm Committee 
maintains poor liaison with the mass of DTM members and other youths of the 
raion. It neglects to control and supervise the activities of primary UTM 
organizations. Activists rarely visit these organizations » and then contact 
only the secretary or the administrative committee.(28) The UTM organization 
of the Grivita Rosie plant in Bucharest pledged to achieve economies in honor 
of the world ycuth festivals. However, it did not organize a drive to facilitate 


oe 
. wt - 16 - 
J we CONFIDENTIAL 
ie ; ; al 


1011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


= 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 20 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A0007001601 14-6 


r 


50X1-HUM 


CONFIDENTIAL 


the fulfillment of these pledges. Young Stakhanovites were not mobilized 

as agitators. Wall newspapers were not put to use. The UM, in addition, 

aid not employ the plant newspaper, Grivita Rosie, for agitation. No visual 
agitation was used to persuade young workers of the value of economies. The 
content of agitation was neglected and the party organization was given no 
support. Ton Ilie » S@crecury o1' the UM primary organization, did not even 
concern himself personally with the agitation drive, but assigned this task to 
Marin Iordache, committee assistant in charge of political teaching. (29) 


3. Mobilization of Youth “or the Harvest 


Many UTM crgenizations throughout Craiova Regiune are supervising the 
mobilization of youth for threshing, However, notall raion committees are doing 
good work. For example, the Filiasi Raion Ui Committee is vorking superficially. 
It is not aware of the progress of threshing, nor does it know how many UTH 
members have been assigned to threshing, transport, or supervisory work. The 
Craiova Regiune UT conmittee Ss agrueulcure section merely issucy lustructions 
to raion committees without fo) low-up or analysis. Ion Popeanga, chief of the 
regiune UTM Committec's agriculture section showed an objectionable lack of 
interest in the threshing program. (21) 


Threshing was completely unsatisfactory in Slobozia Raion, Bucharest 
Regiune. This situation can be blamed directly on the raion people’: council, 
but the UTM committee is also responsible because of its failure to nobilice 
youth for the harvest. The UL devoted very little attention to agitation 
for threshing. ‘The good results obtuined by the Ciunita and Suditi collectives, 
the Ciunite T0Z, and = few other farns were not held up as models by the raion 
committee. Many UIM orgonizations did not draw up plans for the harvest. Organ- 
izations in Ivanesti and Ghinpati held no meetings during the entire growing 
season. The raion UTM committee was aware of this situation and drew up 2 
plan for improvement. However » the plan was never implemented. Secretary 
Traian Bucura and other menbers of the raion UTM committee remeined in their 
offices and made no effort to check the progress of the harvest personally. 
Ilie Dascalu, chief of the raion organizations section, prepered « report for 
the 20 July meeting, but did not bother to check the accuracy of figures. The 
mecting did not discuss the Brediuk method or urgent harvest problems. wo one 
knew why primary organizations had not held meesings.(&8) 


Ton Vitan, secretary of the Uz! primary organization of Comana Commune, 
Bucharest Regiune, reported tht the Orgenization recently held a meeting to 
discuss the ge rnment -ind part, decree on the harvest. Each lenter of the 
UTM primary org..nization was contorted nud was assigned a specific task. Thus, 
Wicu Radu, member of the Committee, was assigned to support UI .gitators. In 
addition, the UTM mustered pioneers, wrote articles for street newspapers, 
and brought « speaker from the capital. Constantin Popescu, chie’ of the 
culture section, brought puuphiets and books on threshing and harvesting and 
distributed them amon- peasants ‘forking on threshing platforms. As a result 
or this well organize. agitation, most of the UM members volunteered tc help 
with the harvest. (i:) 


Marin Pronic, secretary of the UIM yvinary organization in Retund.. 
Comune, Criov. ReGiune, reported that = geneyl neetiny had been hell to 
wobilize youth of the connune to speed up threshing and Jeliye or 
the stcte and to poutine Whe general meeting greed that 
wovll mong younr Pacints .ould hive to te strengthened, and new scitators were 
ap ointed for ths yueposes Subse ueutle, Gbudeuts au pioneers ‘rere or -nined 
to Gather wheat. UTM sroups led in the application ef szavanceu soviet aethods. (30) 


COLSIDEMTIAT 


oe 


j 50X1-HUM 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Gheorghe hihclees, first secretary of the Gegarees Raion Ut Camiittee, 
Craiova Regiune, reported ¢ the orgenization committee organized miss political 
work among young people in preparation for the hirvest and collection dy ives. 
General and open meetings of UIM orgunizations in NTS, collectives, TO, and 
villages discussed dutics ot the UTM members und other youths, und methods of 
mobilizing nonmembers for work in the fields. For example, an open ueeting 
sponsored by the primary UTI orgsnization of the Segurces MTS discussed the 
role of youth in the repiir of machinery. (31) Organizations] york and agitation 
among youth groups in IMTS is yarticularly difficult during the hurvest sonuson 
when tractor drivers are Scattered about the fields at creat distances fru. 
stations. Poor organization, however, is harmful to she harvest. Youngs drivers 
must be drawn into competitions, particuls: ly by bein. shown the outstanding 
results of competitions in other p.rts of the country. They must be told of' 
the significence of the harvest in incressin; the iood supply of the industrial 
worker and of the advant:ges of the MBS Wage sys which is bused on cuentity 
and quality of wort, and which broucnt aS 1,5€0-2,000 lei per man 
in che spring of 1053. Wobile litvir: UTM menbers in MTS witl. 


books on new methods ind with material to further their educ:tion.(32) 


Waces as hi 


he UTM Conferencas : 


Gasper Buzis, secretury of the Orade: Revlune UM Cormittee, reported 
that regiune and reion conferences had been teld to discuss strengthening the 
internal party denoers Yy in the UZ!, as well «s other proolems of the orsunizu. 
tion. One means of strengthaning internal democracy--creiter participation 
by members--has been achieved in scene areas of the resiune. Other raion and 
city UTM orginizations hive retilced the valuc of sceater membership participa- 
tion in decisions and are organizing more fresuent tectings and conferences, 

In Beius, Alesd, «nd Harghita raions, 2nd in Or2de-. city, the committees fniled 
to hold plenary sessions. Consezuently, they weve not ible to discuss their 
own errors in recruitment ind other policies. Thus they accepted no new 
members and turned avy qualified applicunts. Such instances prove the vorth 
of freauent conferences with member participation. 


UII prinary orginization buveaus ¢..utld ecntagt raion committees to 
obtzin suggestions and materials to make meetings successful. The preparation 
made by bureaus xrgely determines the success of the meetings. Many bureaus 
throughout Or:dex Regiune brepere poorly and do not include local protiems on 
the agenda. They do not brief setivists, .nd do not demonstrate enough initiative 
in discovering ind overcoming errors. The resiune VB committee is giving 
full support to all orgeniz.tions errors should not occur. (34) 


Gheorghe Grusn, first secretary of the Tinisosra City UIM Comittee, 
reported that the UT had learned, fron the wR ore nization, of the value of 

meetings 7s . means of Siving a Conrunisé eduertion to yeuth and of strongthenin: ! 
the ties between the UT! und the 1 sses. The Tinisoars City UTM Comittee his 

devoted speein] sttention to organizing gener-i. meetings. It has instructed 

nll activists on the best preparntion & meet! ngs. Consequently, many UTM 

primery crgenizations in Tiniso:r. ke the agem:. imown well in idvance or a 

meeting @ate. For ay, ple, the comalttee co? the ivufesstonal Reiirozd Schoo}, 

meets several days before euch Senersi meeting, to discuss problens of texchins 

and study. Secreto “n Stenecuty and other -vmsbers wre wssi ned specific 

topics to prep, re end oresent, The commit s tunehing, pro°ossers, 

the school dircetur, aud oihor wuau-] inte: $ before the aeeting. 

the agendy. ve published in will nevspape Man-to-man 2gitation. 


wl uieetings which are so vell prepired heve often served to overcoie 
errors, sor exumple, © seneral meeting at the Timisosr:. Iocomotiy depot 
ureanu, chie? o. the physiconl cuitue: - nd sports 


severely sviticized 
section cf the committee, ak of intevest in his work. A genosst 


4 


ease 201 1/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A0007001 60114-6 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-008094000700160114-6 


if 50X1-HUM 


CONFIDENTIAL 


meeting of the uni Organization in the Industria Hetelurgica Banateana (Banat 
Metallurgical Enterprise) iskea for the reroval of the chie?s of the politienl 
and cultural sections because of their neglect o> auuy. A general meeting of 
the UTM at the Nikos Beloiannis factory organized a drive to collect scrap 
metal. A general meeting of the Ul Organization in the Incaltamintea Conper- 
ativa (Footwear Cooperative) discovered and expeiled the sen of + kulak. The 
secretary of the PMR organization in Electronotor, addressing a general meeting 
of the UIM, severely criticized the UIM comnittee for neglectio. its princip2) 
tusks. On the other hand, poorly Prepared meetings, such as those .. ° it 
Blectrobanet, Were of much less value. The Timisoara City UL Committee .; ist, 
therefore, devote increasing attention to the proper organization of nieetings . (33) 


When Constantin Sandu, secretary of the UT primary organization in 
the Intermediate Techniczl Trade School, Pitesti, wac criticized by the Pitesti 
Regiune UTM Coumittee for neglecting political asitation ty support quota 
fulfillment, he immediately czlled a generel necting to arrange for improvement. (23) 


UI members of the Intermediate Technical Horticultural School in 
Lipova, Arad Regiune, called for = eeneral meeting to review their work ond 
tc plan improvements. Alexandru Hae, chief of the UIM organizations section 
of the raion, was invitea to attend. The following difficulties were brought 
up at the meeting: Anghel Creansa, secretury of the UT primery organization 
at the Naidort HTS, complained of the lack of Personnel. Activists of the 
Lipova Raion UTM Committee have no liaison with young people and do nothing 
to raise their m:teri2l and cultural level. Ties between the raion conmittee, 
the primary orgrnizztions, and the mass of youth are inadequate. The raion 
committee did nothing to overcome these errors. Host activists sent out from 
headquarters remained in the field for only « day and failed to accomplish their 
missions. They preferred assignments to ereas with g00d housing and cunteens 
rather than to places where they were really needed. During 1953, not a single 
activist visited Fetris, Seliste, Corbest, Rosianoua, or other communities along 
a 90-kilometer-long road through the raion. This lack of concern for the edu- 
cation of youth is merely the reflection of the poor trainia; of secreteries 
und propagandists of primary organizetions. It WS Concluded that “iron Petru, 
chairman of the raion committee, must see th: these errors sre e@limineted ind 
must send activists to the field. (34) 


D. Trade Unions 
eS 
1. Eduction of Workers 


The new trade union statute stipulates that unions must ‘dicate workers, 
2njineers, technicians, and functionaries by weising their political, ideolosic.1, 
and professional level. To fulfill this function, enterprise committees mst 
carry on mass cultural uetivities through trade union clubs ond eultur L con- 4 
missions.(35) ‘The pir has assigned the Communist education of workers tu . 
trade unions. vo achieve this purpose, the Central Council of Unions in the RFR 
(Consiluisui Central 21 Sindicatelar din RPR) established a large network o7 
clubs, red corner:, libraries, ete.(36) 


#* decree issued by the Central Committee oi the FIR on 36 pris 1695 
called on trade union organizitions to increise their cult ural-2ducntic: 
activities amcons workers .(37) In conformity with “his decree, union + 
in enterprises, institutes, and siate farms must constantly inern .se tie 
of their libraries. The Vsile Rosita plant in Bucharest, cor ox ApLe, fy 
geod library containing the Liarxist-Leninist Clussics, the works of S*ldin, oad 
the documents of the luth Congress of the Crsu. Regular procurement os ide 
ogical, technical, and liternry works hes raised the re:dership to '5 cercen, 
of the plent lnbor force. 7 e union enterprise: committee o: the 39 Doesnt ; 
Factory in Arad i3 So Ming every effcrt to round out tis library. 5h 
Procured books in Huns ria ind Sermin to satisfy tr. needs of workers .2 the 
netional minesities. The enterprise con. ittees of cho Metrem Plant in tho city 
of Stelin ond of Blee’ elzi. in Saceie have devoved » great deal of - thentinn 
to their libreries, 


4 


Cu FL, 


; - CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


Sanitized Copy Aporoved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


r 


50X1-HUM 


Fr CONFIDENTIAL 


However, ‘any -nterprises have neglected this phase of the Communist 
education of workers, The CFR (Cale Ferata Romana, Rumanian Railroad) Work- 
shop in Nicolina~Iasi has obtained no new books Since June 1952. The furniture 
factory in Pancota, Arad Raion, bought no books during the first quarter of 
1953, and only 5 percent of its workers use the library. The 7 Noembrie tex- 
tile plant in Bucharest does not Spend its book allotment. Other enterprises 
actually misuse funds Specified for books. For example, Jean Vladescu, chier 


prise committees prevent workers from raising the level of their party knowleuge 
and from reading about new ways to fulfill the Five-Yerr Plan ahead of schedule.(3£) 


effective as libraries in the political education of the worker, Clubs educate 

workers in the socialist attitude toward work, and in eager patriotism toward 

the RPR and proletarian internationalism. The Tanos Herbak plant in the city 

of Cluj, for evample, understands the value of clubs and is therefore giving : 
its own union club full Support. The club holds conferences, current events 

Sessions, literary evenings, etc. During 1953, the clut Organized a series of 

conferences on specific problems of the factory. The number of readers in the 

plent. library rose to 3,900 in May 1953. 


Some activities of this club are poor, however. The club fails to circulate 
newspapers ana periodicals and does :0v orient the workers on the international ; 
Situation. The club is very active in sports, but aevotes little time to , 
political and scientific themes and neglects the ideological level of its ath- 
letes, Many of the ovhe: clubs in the city of Cluj do not devote their atten- 
tion to production broblons. Thus, a metal workers' club under Rozalia Fodor 
devotes itself exclusivel, to sports and dances. ‘he Union of Workers in the 
Metallurgical, Electrical, Ferrous and Nonferrous Mines Industries has done 
nothing to orient the activity of the club along proper channels, The Cluj 
Regiune clubs of the Union of Press, Cultural, and Polygraphic Workers also 

ot gave theater and onera performances without vepurd for political work. (36) 


Recently, workers of the 30 Decentrie Plent in Arad held a general 
meeting to elect a new club administrative committec. Staxhanovites and 
other workers attending the meeting pointed out many errors committed by the 
Outgoing committee. The committee had not devoted surricient attention to 
the political content of its wore. It railed to realize the need for poouler- 
izing advanced Soviet methods. The club program had not provided for conterences 
between leading workers und those who failed to fulfill their quotas, or between 
Older workers and youths; and it had not provided for other furms or tecanical 
propaganda, Club cultura affairs were poorly arranged. Hours were announced 
So tardily that attendance was usually very poor. The clut library of 27,000 4 
volumes in Rumanian and other languages was seldom used , (34) 


In Cluj Regiune, the trade union council made no breparations for 
the election of re. club administrat.ve coumittces, dus i.e the fact that such 
elect ions are going ou throughout tne country. These - ions constitute e 
meers for improving lub wart ond therefore they shoul.: @ chief concern of 
all union organizations. (36) 


aa 


The 7 Noembric vleni in Bucharest £ 
commission under Adam Niculine. ‘Lhe cormi 
Its operations plan vas based neither on the 
of union education. The comission s 
international situation or on the fi 
s onsored failed to yuote peety wes 
sient did not egitete for the Pula 


Jled to sungert ite union malts 
elf ocereted inefPics : 
lin eon the princirl . 
stings on the domesiie o: 

* peace. The few lectures wh: a 
The entesorise coumittes 


CUNFIDENTIAL 


EEE Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


r 


50X1-HUM 


CORFIDENTIAL 


Soviet methods were neither discussed nor explained by the plant newspaper or 

Over the loudspeaker system. The plant cultural commission showed a complete 

lack of appreciation for artistic work and visual agitation. It failed to 

mobilize the mass of workers or to raise their political, cultural, or professional 
levels. (35) 


lishing House (Editura) of the Central Council of Trade Unions. The vo-forence 
emphasized the value of the press in the education of workers and drew up 

editorial vlans for 1954, Participants requested publication of booklets on 

th Korovtshin cethod, on commerce, and on labor protection and safety measures, (40) 


2. Internal Democracy 


Stakhanovites, leading workers, techniclans, engineers, and directors 
of forestry units in the Hungarian Autonomous Regiune recently attended a neeting 
in the city of Reghin to analyze the resolutions of the Third Congress of Trade 
Unions, held in March 1953. This meeting was part of a drive by the Secretariat 
of the Central Council of Trade Unions to create internal democracy, by permitting 

\ lower echelon union Organivutions to exsress the desires and needs of the working 
masses. Reports presented by Ludovic Curcu, secretary of the Central Committee 
of the Union Workers in the Wood, Paper, and Forestry Industry, and by brigades 
of the Central Council of Trade Unions, as well as subsequent discussiou., 
revealed the achievements and ercors of unions in this industry. One of’ the 
mos. important problems discussed was that of internel democracy. Union organ- 
izations in enterorises end institutes nust respond increasingly to the needs 
and desires ot the musses, This i¢ stipulated in the trede union statute .of 
1953. Internal democracy involves criticisn, self-criticisn, prorer selection 
of new menoers, and liquidetion of bureaucratic cdministcation in union orgen-~ 
izations. Wew members must ve selected at meetings attended by a ma ority of 
the members. Persuasion, education, and explanction should be used to induce 
Workers to join and to eid union members in reeching decisions. Orders issued 

from above limit the pacticipation of the messes in union wivitdes. 


The Hungzcien -utonomous Regiune Sonnittce of the Union of Yorkers 

an the Wood, Paper, and Forestry Industry hes not devoted enough attention to 

° the problem of interne] democracy, meric Glick, secrete: t : 
union committee, Simply took workers of Toplita forestry 
union without any election or vote by the members. Tosi? 
regiune union committee permitted the committee o: » wood £ 
to elect members at a neeting attended by less than two thirds of 
majority. Ion Tudore, chnirman of the Secu Regiune Committee or th 
violated the union statute when he permitted the chairman of. 2 forestry enter- 
prise committee in Tarcau to collect xu . Por the inst § 2: OL ui. euglo: 
ment, desoite the fact thst he dia not ectucaly appear et + other 
example of the lack of Gemocvacy which harms unions in the . Re masses 
is the failure of enterprise committees of forus in Cnesti, 
Bacau, ind Vetra Purnei te report unior act.vit f cines their 
election over c yeer LEO. 


> in Cdorhe + 
requires 
tan, 


The union committee of the Fungaricn . 
and weny othe. mistakes, Its political level is 
in criticise and self--- ticisn. £3 a result, » 
evidenced by the fact that Ion Gliga, e mcrel i: 
for workers and who uses bursaucr:tic methods, :- “bE: nO ths ontas: : 
comittse af one plant. 


vil these examole. show 4.:>¢ tre “oom. she ee ctral ona 
Weio committees of she hurcaston cvs soe ane Tbitnaljs tolerate 
(1:1) 


r 


— 


_ — - . , 00809A000700160114-6 
anitiz ] 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A0007001601 14-6 


r 


50X1-HUM 


CONFIDENTIAL 


3. Workers' Welfare 


The Bacau Regiune Union Council, which is in charge of all union organ- 
izations in the regiune, shows a lack of interest in internal democracy by ig- 
noring letters of complaint received from workers every day. These letters point 
out mistakes in production enterprises, poor work by union and administrative 
organizations, and infractions of laws. The CSR (Consiliul Sindical Regional, 
Regiune Union Council) of Bacau was sharply criticized for thi. hype ol error. 
As a result of this criticism, Vasile Rusu, a member of the presidiun cf the 
CSR, was delegated to take care of letters of complaint. He has solved o& prob- 
lems submitted since his appointment in March, and 46-complaints in the files 
before his appointment. Some of the complaints were as follows: Workers of 
the ISEM Fntreprinderile Statului pentru Exploaterea Miniera, State Mining 
Enterprises ?/ in Tazgu-Ocna complained that Gheorghe Negrea, who does not meet 
party standards, had been elected to the enterprise committee. The CSR inves- 
tigated and found the accusation to be just. It then sponsored a general 
meeting at which the workers unmasked and removed him. Complaints from other 
enterprises in the regiune stated that rules and regulations decided upon by 
workers at general meetings were not respected by enterprise committees. 

Because of the large number of complaints, Ioan Pavel, chief labor safety 
inspector, and Lupu wold, of the CSR supply Section, were assigned to help 
Rusu.(40) 


The Secretariat cf the Central Council of Trade Unions of the RPR 
criticized the manner in which the central committees of workers unions and 
functionaries of local enterprises and state administrative organizations were 
solving the problems brought up by members of the Union of Workers and Func- 
ticnaries 'n Local Enterprises and State Administrative Institutes. The 
central committee of this union received 135 letters of complaint during 1953; 
but settled only 32 of them. Among the problems still to be solved is that, of 
Ruxandre -Zamfirescu, who lives at Streda Ouituz No 12, Buzau. She wrote on 
1€ March “hat she had been discharged from the job she had held for 10 years 
in the Ploesti Regiune Directorate of Statistics. She was given verbal 
notice, without explunation, by Director Vulcu (fnu), despite the fact that 
the labor code provides for written notice td explanation. She submitted 
complaint No 31,yo% to the Central Directorate of Statistics in Bucharest on 
13 April 1953, She received no answer. Her husband then went to the office 
of the Directorate in Bucharest. He waited for 3 hours to see Coman (fnu), 
of the personnel service, but the latter refused to see him. Mre¢ Zaufirescu 
then wrote to the Centre! Council of Trade Unions. On 18 April, the council 
directed her to the Central Committee of the Union of Workers and Functionaries 
in Local Enterprises and State Administrative Institutes. However, this 
committee never acted on her request for an explanation. Sarly in May 19 
she was visited by Zehiu (fnu) of the Buzau Regiune Union Committee; He 
reprimanded her for writing directly to the Centrel Union Council, snd 
declared that the problem should have been solved locally. Thus far, tho 
Ploesti %«siune Union Committee hus done nothing to help her. This union 
committees does not operate through union aktivs or other local bodies, and 
therefore nsintains ;oor liaison with the masses and deprives -ocsi orgerizations 
Of authority, Leiices of cowplaint sent to the Suzau Caty Litagstions corsission 
(comisia ae litisray have not beer aetacd yuo: because that body hes bon 
inactive for sou. bime{ hi} 


“say letters of conplaint 
in the welfare ot yore Pererceare rs 
forwards these letters to orga 
for further action. Tecde union 
health enterprises and i: uclly ignore these lettece. 0% 
‘example, a letter: commlsiri 4 OF peos quality and insufficient fvod at the aciges 
Sanatorium wee ‘forwarded té the Nimietry of Health. The Minisery c:nc an 


» The nevspaper Mune 
caezes of bureaucratism, le 
tions from the verty line. 
tions in charge of the -actic 


ase 2011/09/08 | ‘CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


ee 


d 


Sanitized Copy 


‘ i + { 
Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 | 


an i 
; 50X1-HUM 


4 CONFIDENTIAL 


tion, the latter simply transferred the critic to another sanatorium. When the 
Union of Workers in Health Institutes and Enterprises was informed that nothing 
had been Cone to correct the errors, it took no action. 


Munca received a letter On 22 May 1953 from the Central Committee of 
the Union of Workers in the Petroleum, Chemical, Methane Gas, an. Saline 
Industry, complaining that a team of workers at the Sovrompetrol install].ition 
in Hurecani did not receive full pay efter being transferred, as a result c1' 
a confusion created by the many forms to be filled out. The complaint was 
: forwarded by the newspaper to the organizations section of the union and an 
activist was sent out to investigate. The problem was solved ufter a delay of 
almost < months. 


The Central Committee of the Union of Workers in the Metallurgical, 
Electric, Ferrous, and Nonferrous Mines industries corplained in a letter to 
Munca “het enamel workers in the Victoria plant, Calen, were not receiving 
lunziils iue men working at high temperatures under conditions harmful to 
neeatn, Munca forwarded the letter, with a request for explanation, to the 
Ministry of Metallurgical Industries. The latter answered promptly, nromising 
to remedy the situation, but the union failed to press the matter further. 


Fensioners wrote a letter of complaint to the Directorate of Pensions 
in the Ministry of Social Welfore, stating that pension payments were very 
irregular. Nunca forwarded the letter on 20 May with a request for explanation, 
but has received nc answer. (43) 


Workers also voice their complaints to union activists who visit their 
places of work. These activists are entrusted with the task of bringing the 
complaints to the attention of union organizations. Many union organizations 
have mobilized large numbers of activists to contact workers for this purpusc. 
However, not all union organizetions are implementing this program properly. 
Ion Moldovanu, member of the Presidium of the Central Committee of the: Union 
of Workers in the Coal Industry, who is in charge of union activities in mines 
in Timisoara Regiune, does not know the needs and desires of the miners- Miners 
of Anina complained that they were not receiving the benefits due them under 
a decree of 3 July 1953. However, Moldovanu is not aware of these compleirts 
since he has not visited Anina for 6 months. The Presidium of the Central 
Committee of the Union of Railroad Workers neglects the nezis of its voriers, 
For example, union and administrative organs of the Timis Marshaling Yaris 

, neglected housing. In Sighisoara, no slevping Quarters Were provided for rail- 
ae road workers .(2) : 


The welfare of the worker is also brimary reason for the esllective 
contract drawn up between the enterprise committee and the enternri:: “enagement, 
The collective contract constitutes s daily program for worke: technicdans, 
and functionaries, as well zs for the administrative units of torics, shons, 
and mines. Consequently, the collective contrect is of great lue in mobilir ings 
the mass of workers to fulfill tt Production plan and to raiss the stendard 
of living. (4k) However, numerous enterprises ignore ths welfare benefits of 
the collective contract. For ex. ple, the administration of the atelierele 
Princinale CFR (Nain CFR workshops} in Simorit fuiled to obserte: sas of the 
provisions of its collective contract. The louds: systen, for e suse, hus 
only five of the promised 16 speukers. In the Frogresul Works in 3 is, the 
coliective contract was not fulfilled because Boeru (fnu), cheirman of the 
Galati Regiune Union Council, failed to show any interest in its enforcement. (4) 


B | 


Sanitized Copy Approved for R 


elease 201 1/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A0007001601 14-6 


r 


: 50X1-HUM 


A CONFIDENTIAL 


Workers, technicians, and functionaries of the petro] eum equipment plant 
in Moreni Tulfilled their production plan for the first 6 months of 1953, earning i s 7 
a 50,000 lei prize for the plant as the leader in the petroleum equipment field, ig Fes 
However, instead of rewarding his workers, Director Gheorghe Gatej failed to 
carry out the collective contract. The contract provided for 12 dwelling units : 
and a women's lounge. Funds were available, but they were not used. Gheorghe Le 
Stanescu, chairman of the enterprise committee, tried to conceal the nistakes h ‘ 
of the administration instead of agitating for fulfillment of the collectiv2 ‘ 
contract. The Ministry of Petroleum Industry failed to take any action in this Hid 
. matter, and the Central Committee of the Union of Workers in the Petroleum, ph 
Chemical, Methane Gas, ond Saline Industries has failed to press for enforce- 6 
ment of the contract to date.(h3) [ = 


The management of the Auto enterprise in Bucharest failed to install Fans 
& ventilation system, to organize a red corner, to build a library, and to 
Provide pay books (carnetelor de Salarizare), although the collective contract 
called for them. Stefan Edves, director of the plant, concealed the reasons 
for this neglect. Ion Sime, secretary of the enterprise committee, made no 
effort to discover the reasons or tc remedy the situation. Since the workers 
a of Auto Successfully fulfilled their pledges and production plan, they are 

: : entitled to the benefits of the collective contract.(27) 


It is obvious that too many union activists do not know how to deal 
with administrative organs which neglect the rights of workers and ignore the 
collective contract.(&2) 


Numerous plant administrations flave ignored the problem of labor 

. safety and accident prevention, although eany suggestions are submitted by 
workers. This situation is particularly Sérious in Printing House No 1; 
Bucharest. Administrators of the enterprise have ignored valuable suggestions 
made by workers, even though these suggestions would require little funds and 
labor... Consequently, accidents have occurred as a result of poorly insulated 
wires, broken floorboards, weak beams, and defective tools, Labor safety 
Suggestions have been ignored because of the lack of interest and the. bureaucratic 
attitude of ministers and of the Central Couscil of Trade Unions. Labor 
sefety sections are weak, especially in the Union of Workers in the Construction 
énd Construction Materials Industries and in ministries dealing with wood and 
wood products. (45) a : 


4. Agriculture o 


: regiune 


The harvest in Iasi Regiune is the richest in many .gears.. 
i p WOPRAM 


trade union comiitts: is therefore faced with the problem of ssob? 
It must organize competitions, intensify the education or pe 3 
vigilance, and unmask th. hostile acts of class enemies. UW. clare mult \ 
be taught the proper overwtion of machinery. Union activity auzi.. chow initis- 

tive and proper orientaiion,. The Iasi Regiune trade union committee has not 

followed these principles, hovever, The regiune work plen tor the second guarte : 

of 1953 did not provide Speciiie duties for the-harvest. The olen was so. full 

of detail that the over-all picture was forgotten. ‘This lack of proper orien- 

tation caused the committee to fall behind schedule. The traic union ‘committee 

did not discuss application of tha 9 May decree on the bart :st until several 


weeks later. Bortng (fav), chairman of the Regiuze Comm!t: .* of Agricultural 
Workers, excused this delay cu othe grounds thet be hau b> cp lied atay by the. 
Central Coumittee of the un‘o: ‘ang.the month os bey. oe x.giune committer 


drei! up.a plan for explaining tn. decree to the masces, be n& plan for imple- 
menting the decree itself. [cor union Supervision resulicc it the neglect of 

crops at state farms, particularly in Pascani and Razboicn-. Bortas cu ’ 
this situation on the grout. that the committee hud too wey Other duvi 2. (45) 


oh 


COR? LNT IAL 


| Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


oy ie 
) , 


a « ; a" o . P "6 
‘Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114 


r 


‘ 50X1-HUM 


* CONFIDENTIAL 
eee 


In those areas of Constanta Regiune Where the welfare of workers was 
taken care of, harvest quotas were fulfilled, On the other hand, in areas 
where the needs of the workers were neglected, horvest was beliind schedule, 
Meals were poor and were served late at the Clocarlia State Parm, Baths did 
not work and no cultural activities were carried on. The Velichioi State 
Farm provided no washing facilities, Negresti and Velichioi failed to set 
up first aid stations and did not. provide goggles, although th» latter were 
readily available in Constanta. (39) 


5. Finance 


Trade unions throughout the country =duinister and direct 1,70C clubs, 
almost 5,000 libraries, 212 motion picture houses, thousands of red corners, 
and numerous sports fields, gymnasiums, and tourist hostels. Funds for these 
activities are increasing every yezr. In addition, 33 million lei was set asidc 
for the training of workers. Thes:: funds come chiefly from membership dues and 
from the sale of -ickets to culture1 and sports events, 


Many union organizations have collectru their dues on time. “or example, 
health enterprises wud Institutes collected their full dues at the beginning 
of 1953. On the other hand, financial work in some enterprises was neglected, 
Many unions now collect dues ina bureaucratic manner, in direct violation of 
the principle of persuasion. Such is the case in the Coahlau Metals Flent in : | 
Peatra-Neamt, where office workers Simply withhold a part of the wages. 


The manner in which these funds are spent is very important. Many ; 
union activists disregerd the needs of the mémbers and Spend large sums on : 
cdministration, culture, and sports. fhe enterprise committee of the 23 August i 
plant in Bucharest Spent more than 70 percent of its budget for administration, 

As a result, culture and sports cuffered. The Adesgo plant in Bucharest end 
Tesatura in Iasi did not Spend their funds Properly. (ne reason for the frequency 
of such errors is the failure of unton Organizations to obey regulation: and 
decisions agreed upon at general meetings. The Union of Workers in Light: 

Industry and the Union oO? Lorkers in the Construction and Construction Materials 
Industries have been criticized for failing to improve the poor financial 
activities of subordinate units. (47) 


IV. PROPAGANDA SYSTEM IN BUCHAREST 


A. Party Teaching : - 
ee 


The organization of propagarda and ideological work is of particule: ‘ 
Significance in Bucharest, where a large part of the Rumanian Workers ore 
concentrated.. Hundreds of ;thousands of workers in factories and shups of the 
city are engaged in industrial ‘production, Hundreds of thousands of copies of 
Bucharest’ daily newso3pers are printed. iluny thousands of books are cerry te 
all parts of the country from printing houses in the canitel. Seiontt# 
acedenic, anc cultural institutions, hossitals, and individual writer 
physicians, and scientists are working to biild socialism. Th: 
level-of the city is high, 


Howaver, evidence fror; all sides indicates the exi : 


deficiencies in the: ideclovice) ond provegands work of ition 
the capital. jh meeting ov the city party committee, o°- vidi 
of primary pty organize cions, propagandists, sefenti-t., : nd 
place 11-12 Pine 1953, ete meeting discussed achieroment. - 94 « ay 
prevegerd: ork in the erty. Achieverients included an +: oF OS Pa aey 
education:.1 network to cover most marty members and a dare: misber o. uthers. 
~ 25 - 
a SONPIDENTIAL 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


* 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A0007001601 14-6 


r 


° 50X1-HUM 


Zz COiti* IDENTIAL 


The number of 3- ana 6-month party schools Increased. More than €,600 activists 
took courses in these schools, Two new branches of the Evening University of 
Marxism-Leninism of Bucharest were set up. The city committee organized 
clagses to study Marxist-Leninist works and the documents of the 19th Congress 
of the CPSU. Goou lectures and seminars were Presented and the selection and 
training of Propagandists was often good. The newspaper Viata Capitalei, 
organ of the Bucharest People's Council, published better articles, closely 
connected with the problems confronting workers or the city of Buchirest and 
of Bucharest hegiune. Results obtained in proparanda work contributea to 
Strengthening the role of the Communist advance guard in building socialisn 
and in increasing the ability of party Organizations to mobilize workers, This 
is evidenced by the fulfillment of the state plan by Bucharest enterprises, the 
development of the Ctahkhanovite movement, and the increased participation of 
Workers in tasits initieted by the party. 


Speakers at the meeting emphasized, however, thet serious errors Were ham- 
bering propaganda vork: : he buresu of the city party committee wes wot checking 
the content of Peopacemi., and it tolerated eropagandists who were poorly pre- 
pared theoretically <0 not always politically reliable, ‘The unsatisfactory 
conduct of propa... nde by the city committee was discovered by a Systematic check. 
The bureau did not anulyce the content of lectures and seminars at the Evening 
University or in 6-month and one-year party schools during the entire 1952-1953 
School year. No conferences were held with ARLUS, the SRSC (Societates pentru 
Raspundirea Stiintei si Culturii, Society for the Dissemination of Science and 
Culture), or other Orgenizetions. No raion committee in the city made a serious 
effort to analyze the content or lecturee and seminars of the party schools, 
courses, and groups, : 


The lack uf cupery slon aac coud cay tay, ab 
cania.e Circles, Courses, sciivols, levtures, i seminav: cailes to enphusice tne 
importance of the Peet of lea : “the peovte, and did not emphasize 
the role of the people's Uanveratic state as Drincipe. iuisivument in the buile- 
ing of socialism. ALL these err: sativas did not iake thei: 
bropagandists rculize that propa, if, but a veupon ‘or 
mobilizing the asses 4. s Pe vu. "he unnestuing of 
imperialism vas ea Poon etre 4 > Courses, and schools. 
Propagandists did ot nj: Aberiu? tllustratiniy, 
the disinterration of ecnt Sorel ena 
in unmaskin's oe Ceslo: 


2Y 1evel of party Druga- 


oot 


ite: 


AG tthe es 


HavLoaeisn. 


the poor orfencution ot som D<Ovagandicz eevoneous expluna- j 
tions of the New Economic soliecy es a conce ceol ism, and misinterpie- : 
tation of the democrrtic nature of the movement for peace. +t the Evening 
Courses of the Buleiinul Oficial (officizl telletin contuining decrees) student: 
were led to believe that socialicm.can be attained without a class struggiie. 

A circle at one enterprisn was told that Kulu!) end former exploiters could be 
accepted into the party. a leqttire on “Socialist Industrialization, Basis for 
the Development of the EntiresNat ions] &conomy,” which Gherasim Pop presented 
at the Evening University off Marxism-Leninism, contained subjectivist inter. 
pretations. Lectures by HS Onrisan on the building of socialism contained too 
little theoretical ergument. 


rty committer that 


persons had been 


It was disclosed at the meeting of the tuchersst city 
“&g ; propagandists were poorly precared and thet im. eOnproms 
accested es propagandists in the €3 august od oi othe PASS, 


8B, Zarty Press 


The meetin, 


sed thet the 


in cdminicte vicing the x 
. carry esitet. one bends be! me) 
. . 
a CONG ILEWPLAI. 


- CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114 


r 


, 50X1-HUM 


P CONFIDENTIAL 


mobilize the masses for plan fulfillments. Since the city committee hag made 

only &@ very cursory analvsis of the activitios of ite press organ, it was not aware 
P of the daily errors, nor could it remedy them. The city committee dig not 

assign the Proper personnel to the newspaper, and it even tolerated Oppurtunists 


decrees, They did not study the daily problems confronting individual party ~ 
Organizations or workers, and therefore did not Stress items of cursint interest 
to the masses, The newspaper did not take a combative attitude toward e:.c+5 

in the activity of party and state Organizations. 


Viata Capitalei did not create a broad aktiv of contributors, despite the 
presence of large numbers of activists Stakhanovites , enginec :s, scientists, 
Writers, and artists in the capitel. As a resuit, lecturers did not quote 
articles from the paper. The Tudor Vladimirescu Raion Committee, the 23 August 
Cormittee, and other Organizetions did not examine the content of propaganda 
in their local and plant newspapers, 


The experience of the CPSU and of the PMR has shown that a constant check 
by competent people who are at the same time party leaders can assure a 
Successful press, 


Cc, Science and Art Institutes 
a stitutes 


Surervision over the Gevelopment of science, art, and literature constitutes 
an important means of Spreading party ideology. An analysis of ideologicel 
activity in scientific and art institutes, carried out by the meeting in 
Bucharest, revealed that writers, artists, and scientists of the city had con- 
tributed to the building or socialism in the country. Rumar‘sr sclentiste made 
many new discoveries, as reported at the recent annual meeting of the Academy 
of the AER. ‘ 

However, reports presented at the meeting also revealed serious errors in 
political work in these fields. The bureeu of the city party committee, which 
is directly responsible for political-~ideological work in pedagogical, scien- 
tific, art, and literury institutes, showed little interest in this phase of its 
activity. It devoted little time to studying the life ana activity of nroves- 
Sioral men in this type of work. In June 153, the city committee incre:.sed 
the number of party organizers at the Naticnal Theater, the State Ozere, the 
Radio Committee, the Ministry of Public education, the Ministry of Higher Edu- 
cation, and the Academy ot’ the RER. Howcver, the level of lectures and seminars 
carried on by organizers and Dropagandists was very low. Scientists, writers, 
and artists were not taught Marxism-Leninism na creative manner, and were given 
no Opportunity to debate problems connected with the development of culture in 
the RPR. ; : 


The city committee and the raicen party committees did not Support primary 
varty organizetions in institutes, Consequently, the primary party organiza- 
tions were noi able +o work. constantly to influence the Orientetion of scien- 
tific, artistic, and literyafy work or to aid institutes in fulfilline their 
plans. Primary perty organizations in scientific ana educational institutions 
are !}, great need of Support, becuuse they are small and are composed of young 
men With little professional experience. Nota Single member of th. city 
bureau visited a sesearck Or higher caucational institution to tal: to e leader 
of the institutien or to a member of the primery party organization conesrning 
difficulties and problems facing him. That is why the report oreecnted to the 
meeting by the city bureau aid not point out the erro:s which cropped up in 
literature or in the creative arts, 


i 


_ Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114 


4 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 201 1/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


. The relations 


‘ teachers that the teachin 


e- 


50X1-HUM 


CONFIDENTIAL 


The city an 
bureaus of prim 
institutes consi 


d raion committees in Bucharest made no effort to see that 


educational, Scientific, and art 


ittees relied upon poorly 
bureaus of primary party 
entific institutes were not 
In addition, each instructor 
rganizations in institutes working 
was unable to check their effec- 


Organizations, 
brought to the a 
had in his class or 
ina different fie 
tiveness, 


ganizers of primary party o. 
d ‘rom his Own, and thus he 


Many orimary -arty Organizations were 
logical work, for they failed to Orient tea 
mobilize researchers and artists to solve problems in t 


or to tie science and art to life. Asa result, the level of propaganda was 
low in some higher academic and other institutes. Lectures were full of foreign 
concepts which damaged the party education of young intellectuals. Asa result 
of this improper orientation, researchers in a number of scientific aunstitutes 
ignored the success of Soviet science and turned to "western" science and tech- 
nology. For this reason, the work of a collective under researcher Baldovin 
in the Cantacuzino Institute was of little value. Other scientific institutes 
did not devote themselves to current problems. Among these were medical insti- 
tutes, particularly the Institute of Hygiene, which neglected disease prevention, 
No contracts were s 
ments and enterprises, 
formalities, Writers an 
izations did not help th 
capital, or to know the 
communists, 


igned between research institutes 
Conferences between researchers an 
d artists produced mediocre works 
em to know life in iurge factories 
daily activities of 


or university depart- 
d workers were mere ! 
because party organ- 
and shops in the 

leading workers, Stakhanovites,. and 


Communists have shown liberelism and a lack of combativ: 
oriented artistic and literary work or research without. pers 
Scientific research and artistic creation are limited by an 
mutual praise and concealment vf mistakes in many collectives of artists, 
writers, teachers, and Scientists. Some institutes have ever adopted the habit ‘ 
of choking critisism, At the Institute of Physics of the Academy of the.RPR, i 
for example, lecturer Andrei Popovici, former assistant director and member ; 
of the bureau of the primary party organization of the institute, stifled 
criticism and refused to permit the free play of Opinions. 

or 


eness toward poorly 
pective. Teaching, 
atmosphere of 


Some communists used peculiar methods, 
themselves, Instead of using persuasion, 
did not contribute to the mobilizatior of 
hip: between party members in 
the party must be one of friendly aid in p 


They tried to run institutes 
they used unfriendly methods which 
institutes for plan fulfillment. 
science and art and those outside 
lan fulfillment. 


The Bucharest cit 
of the social sciences 
Leninist science, 


y and raion committees failed 

in directing ideological work 
The city committee failed to combat the opinion of some 

ig of social science is of little importance in party i 
social science departments did not consider their 


to understand the value 
and in teaching Merxist- 


work, Party activists in 


a 
BB os 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 ae eel 


2 


“rT 


decrees. In addition, 


Tints: 


7 : : 
SCWONDM Eww pP 


work important and ste 


yed away from lectures. 
Ments were not briefed 


a 


Saniied Cony Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Members of social science depart- 


On current party problems by the city committee, - Social 
Science teachers were not used @& propagandists. hs 


D. - Solution of Propaganda Problems 


The @irection of Propaganda work in the city of Bucharest. hag thus teen 
very poor, the meeting was told, 
recognize errors; propaganda and agitation sections were very small, aecpite 
the inexhaustible reserve of intellectual workers in the 
directives were disregarded. 
and artists to devote their work to the building of 
egains: antiscientific -Osmopolitanism. 


Activists were poorly prepared, and failed to 
city; and party 


socialism and to fight 


To overcome these widespread errors, the meeting prepared a decree: calling 
for’ improved supervision of the content of propogude, 
dists, the orientution of newspaper articies, ena the enfo: 


the training of propagan- 
rcement of party 


a plan was drawn up to Strengthen the editorial collective 
of Viata Ca italei, to elect better bureaus in institutes 


primary party bureau in the J. v. Stalin Printing Combine.(1° 


» and to set up a new 


SOURCES 


Lupta de Clasa, Jul 53 
Scanteia, 2 Jul 53 
Ibid., 18 Jul 53 
Thid., 8 Jul 53 

Ibid., 12 Jul 53 
Ibid., 10 Jul 53 
Ibid., 9 Jul 53 

Ibid., 22 Jul 53 


Ibid., 23 Jul 53 
Ibid., 3 Jul 53 
Ibid., 1 Jul 53 
Tbid., 13 Jul 53. 
Ibid., 2 Jul 53 
Toid., 14 Jul 53 
Ibid., 7 Jul 53 
Toid., & Jul 53 
Ibid., 15 Jul 53 


» LE Jul 53 

Veac Nou, 20 Jun 53 

Ibid., 27 Jun 53 
Scanteia Tineretului, 2k Jul 53 . Aa. 
Ibid., 2 Jul 53 

Tbid., 7 dul 53 


Ibid., 1¢ Jul 53 
Ibid., & Jul 53 
Ibid., 16 Jul 53 
Ibid., 3 Jul $3 
Tbid., 30 Jul 53 
Tbid., 17 Jul 53 
Ibid., 21 Jul 53 
Tbid., 12 Jul 53 
Ibid., 10 Jul 53 
Tbid., 23 Jul 53 
.Toid., Lk Jul 52 


Munce, 1 Jul 53 
Ibid., 21 Jul 53 
Ibid., 25 Jul 53 
Thid., 23 Jul 53_ 


= DOr-d 


CONFIDENTIAL 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


Party organizations did not aid writers, scientists, 


50X1-HUM 


Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 


r 
50X1-HUM 


= CONFIDENTIAL 


39. Munca, 29 Jur 53 
4O. Ibid., 30 gul 53 
41. Ibid., 7 Jul 53 
42. Ibid., 22 Jul 53 
43. Tbid., 17 gul 53 
4k. Tbdd., 10 Jur 53 
45. Ibid., 18 Jur 53 
46. Ibid., 8 gut 53 
47. Ibid., 32 gud 53 


“SEND-O* 3: 


-~ 30 - 


CONFIDENT LL 


- 


MM Sanitized Copy Approved for Release 2011/09/08 : CIA-RDP80-00809A000700160114-6 eer] 


