Google 



This is a digital copy of a book that was preserved for generations on library shelves before it was carefully scanned by Google as part of a project 

to make the world's books discoverable online. 

It has survived long enough for the copyright to expire and the book to enter the public domain. A public domain book is one that was never subject 

to copyright or whose legal copyright term has expired. Whether a book is in the public domain may vary country to country. Public domain books 

are our gateways to the past, representing a wealth of history, culture and knowledge that's often difficult to discover. 

Marks, notations and other maiginalia present in the original volume will appear in this file - a reminder of this book's long journey from the 

publisher to a library and finally to you. 

Usage guidelines 

Google is proud to partner with libraries to digitize public domain materials and make them widely accessible. Public domain books belong to the 
public and we are merely their custodians. Nevertheless, this work is expensive, so in order to keep providing tliis resource, we liave taken steps to 
prevent abuse by commercial parties, including placing technical restrictions on automated querying. 
We also ask that you: 

+ Make non-commercial use of the files We designed Google Book Search for use by individuals, and we request that you use these files for 
personal, non-commercial purposes. 

+ Refrain fivm automated querying Do not send automated queries of any sort to Google's system: If you are conducting research on machine 
translation, optical character recognition or other areas where access to a large amount of text is helpful, please contact us. We encourage the 
use of public domain materials for these purposes and may be able to help. 

+ Maintain attributionTht GoogXt "watermark" you see on each file is essential for in forming people about this project and helping them find 
additional materials through Google Book Search. Please do not remove it. 

+ Keep it legal Whatever your use, remember that you are responsible for ensuring that what you are doing is legal. Do not assume that just 
because we believe a book is in the public domain for users in the United States, that the work is also in the public domain for users in other 
countries. Whether a book is still in copyright varies from country to country, and we can't offer guidance on whether any specific use of 
any specific book is allowed. Please do not assume that a book's appearance in Google Book Search means it can be used in any manner 
anywhere in the world. Copyright infringement liabili^ can be quite severe. 

About Google Book Search 

Google's mission is to organize the world's information and to make it universally accessible and useful. Google Book Search helps readers 
discover the world's books while helping authors and publishers reach new audiences. You can search through the full text of this book on the web 

at |http: //books .google .com/I 



1 



First Annual Report 



COLLEGE SETTLEMENTS 



ASSOCIATION. 



! 8c)0. 



Nrw Vohk 

The Repubuc Pkks 

536-538 Pearl Si, 



lows A Wilson, Printehs isii 
28 BHfkmim Street. 



• • • ,•• ••• • 

, • •• ; • . • • 



• • .•• • ••• • ,• • • 

• • • • . • • . • •• 






•*• •" -COilLfee'E S-£TTli£MET^TS- ASSOCIATION. 



Froni 
Wellesley 
College. 



From 

Vassar 

College. 

From 

Smith 

College. 

From 

Bryn Mator 

College. 



Non- 
Collegiate. 



ELECTORAL BOARD. 
( Mrs. Adeline Emerson Thompson, Wei., *80. 
Chairman of Electoral Board, 

68 Chestnut Street, East Orange, N. J. 
Miss ViDA D. Scudder, S., '84, 

Secretary of Electoral Board, 

260 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass. 

Miss Maria P. Brace, V., 72. 

142 East 40th Street, New York aty. 
Miss Louise A. Lawrence, V., '91, 

Vassar College, Poughkeepeie, N. Y. 

Miss Ella Scribner, S., '89, 

Tarrytown, N. Y. 

I Miss Edith Cadwallader, S., '91, 

I Smith College, Northampton, Mass. 

f Miss Helen Dudley, B. M., '89, 
J 80 Willoughby Street, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Miss Helen Annan, B. M., 

Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa. 

Miss Hannah P. Kimball, 

325 Commonwealth Avenue, Boston, Mass. 
Miss Cornelia P. Warren, 

67 Mt. Vernon Avenue, Boston, Mass. 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE. 
Miss Helen C. Rand (Chairman of Executive Committee and 

Secretary on Residents), Westfield, Mass. 
Miss Jean G. Fine (Head Worker), 95 Rivington Street, New York 

City. 
Miss Marqaret Pierson (Secretary), 11 Hillyer Street, Orange, 

N. J. 
Miss Bertha Hazard (Treasurer), 18 Centre Street, Rozbury, Mass, 
}drs. Lillian W. Betts, 2 Middagh Street, Brooklyn, N. Y, 

1412291 




^■interc 



fll^UTES OF THE FIRST ANNUAL 

MEETING OF THE ELECTORAL BOARD, 
■ ■ May 12, iSgo - ■ 
"TpHE Electoral Board of the College Settlements Association held 
^ its first annual meeting on May 13. 1890, at the Settlement in 
Hew York. Seven electors -ware present, representatives from 
Wellesley, Smith, Vassar and Bryn Mawr. 

The meeting was called to order, and Mrs. Thompson was 
appointed Chairman j>ro tem. 

An informal report of the work and methods of the past year 
was presented by Miss Scudder. The husineas of the Settlement 
during its first year was carried on by a, close corporation of indi- 
viduals especially interested in the work. The funds were con- 
tributed by the generosity of a few friends. It was judged wise 
to throw the support and control of the Settlement, at the end of 
the first year, into the hands of a large representative Association, 
which should becomposedofmembersoftheColleges and of others 
interested in the work. This step, anticipated from the first, 
led justified by tiie success of tlie Settlement during its first 
lyear. Some reasons for the change were: — that interest in the 
movement for College Settlements should be extended as widely 
as possible; tliat responsibility for the supiM>rt of the work should 
be thrown upon the College and the public rather than upon a 
few individuals i and that the methods of control should be in 
harmony with democratic conditions. 

The report of the Treasurer, Miss Hazard of Vassar, was read 
and approved. 

Miss Hannah P. Kimball of Boston was appointed Elector for 
■o years, and Miss Cornelia Warren of Boston, Elector for one 
represent the non -collegiate membei's of the Associatiou. 
The three members of the Executive Committee chosen by 
Electoral Board for the New York Settlement were as follows; 
Bertha Hazard of Vassar, Miss Helen ICajid of Sniitli, and 
Margaret Pierson of Vassar. For the purpose of callmg 



Brciw.n &. Wilson, Pkinterb ahv Stato 
as Beckman Street, 



idwa. 



together the Executive Committee, Miss Fine was elected Chair- 
man pro tern., as it was assumed by the Board that she would be 
appointed Head Worker by the Committee. It was voted that the 
Committee be empowered to fill any vacancy occurring in its 
number during the year. 

Mrs. Thompson was elected Chairman of the Electoral Board 
for the ensuing year, and Miss Scudder was elected Secretary. 

A committee was appointed with Miss Scudder as chairman 
to consider the significance of the word '' College " as used in the 
Constitution, and to report to the Board. 

Another committee was appointed with Miss Brace as chair- 
man to decide on methods of interesting colleges not yet repre- 
sented in the Association. 

It was voted to amend Art. III. of the Constitution by substi- 
tuting * * person " for * * woman. " 

The relations of the Executive Committee to the Head- Worker 
were then discussed with Miss Fine. 

The question of visitors at the Settlement was discussed. It 
was decided that the Electors might have liberty to invite friends 
on Wednesday evening and Sunday afternoon, as well as on 
Friday. 

The question of the amount of publicity desirable through the 
press was discussed and referred to the Executive Committee. 

The meeting was then adjourned. 

ViDA D. Scudder, 

Secretary. 
Boston, Mass., ) 

June 1, 1890. ) 



annual report 
New York Settlement. 



THE first jear of the actual working of the College Settlement 
in New York ia at an end. The theory on which it is bRsed waa 
long ago proved a practical one in England. This year of eiperi- 
ment has shown tliat in this country, too, with its foreign popu- 
lation and its democratic conditione, a helpful, friendl j life among 
the poor is possible. 

The value of auch helpfulness and friendliness no one can 
doubt wlio hen seen the eagerness of the children to be admitted 
to 95 Rivington street, and their delight in the friendship ixtiil sym- 
pathy of ita residentH, Nor is the interest and reaponsiveneaa con- 
fined to the boya and girls, though it is with tbem that tlie work 
of the Settlement chiefly lies. Many a tired and troubled motlier 
tells of her satisfaction in knowing that her hoy is at " the Club," 
and application is sometimes made for ali other members of the 
family to be received into clubs, "to keep them off the street." 

At the beginning of the year the members of tlie Settlement 
held tlie responsibility for carrying on two girls' clubs already 
established in the Neighborhood Guild. A club for little girls waa 
also started and carried on by Settlement workers under the 
auspices of the Guild. A fourth club, for girla not included in 
any of the others, was opened at the Settlement. 

It was not the original intention to do any definite work tor 
boys, but their demand for attention waa so great that one club 
after another was formed for them. At present there are four 
c1ub» for boys from ten to eigliteen years of age. The last one 
was organized when some boys already formed into a ' ' pleasure 



blows & IVlLSOW, PHINTEIIS \KD .STATIONEBS, 

as Beiekmiiii Street. 
1B83. 




club" in one of the roughest streets of the region be^ed for an 
evening. Baying, "We'll change and have your kind of a club," 

The aim of the club work is to give prai^tical inBtructioii and 
wholesome amusement, and to enlarge the range of interest. 

The girls are taught cooking, sewing and dressmaking. The 
little onee have " kitchen -garden " work, and their mothers re- 
port that the children set the table " as thej learn at club." 

The older girls listen to talks on Hygiene, DresB and other 
practical matters, as well as on historical and scientiAc subjects. 
Instruction in gymnastics is given to all, and singing is one of the 
most popular features of the clubs. The afternoon or evening 
generally closes with games or amusement of some sort. 

In the boys' clubs singing and gyninaslics with mUitary drill 
are popular, and games always occupy part of the evening. Talks 
on a variety of Bobjecta are given. The " Hero Club " listens to the 
story of the lives of great men. and tries to discover the elements 
of success, The " Knights of the Bound Table" are being tanght 
lo be chivalrous and true. Questions are given to be looked up 
and reported on at the next meeting. Sometimes the boya them- 
selves take their Cum at asking questions. 

The fact that all the cluba require a weekly fee and are self- 
governing certainly adds to the self -respect of the members. One 
club of boya recently appointed a committee to confer with tlie 
' ' teacher " in charge about work for nest year. 

Every club occasionally gives an entertainment to which llio 
members have tickets for tlieir friends This plan not only ke«^ps 
the interest of the more Hckle club members, but furnishes an 
attractive evening for others, and secures the co-operation of the 
older friends of the boys and girls. Afternoon teas, held once in 
two or three weeks for the mothers of the club members and for 
other neighbors, are a successful means of getting acquainted. 
The mere fact of taking time to be social isof great value to these 
Gei-man women who do very Uttle "visiting." It would be hard 
to believe that they do not go home refreshed after an afternoon 
in which they have chatted over Uieir tea and coffee, listened to 




ir two. An attempt is ir 
ifamiliesin the clutie fortbe 
e in the home. 
( thousand volumes, i 



I 



touMio uid, perhaps, joined in a Bong 

to have different memberH of the aam. 

sake of creating a dilTereiit atmosphe 

The library, numbering about on 

■ to the clubB and to a large number outside their membership. 

L Books have been given during the year to seven hiindred persons, 
but the numl)er taking books at one time is not over four hundred. 
More than sis thousand books liave been issued since last No- 
vember. The boys clamor for history and read science when put 
in a popular form; the girls read chiefly fiction. Care is taken to 
overlook the reading of each individual, for those who are in the 
work fee! that they wield no more potent influence in forming 
the ideals of the boys and gii'ls than titrough the reading which 
is given them. On one evening in the week the young people are 

I aidmitted to get books from the library and to spend the evening 

K in playing games. 

I The Penny Provident Bank, under the auspices of the Charity 

r Organization Society ie an education in saving money. 

One of the theories of the work in its beginning was tliat the 
residents should work in existing institutions; that they should 
strengthen the work already started. This idea hiyi been carried 
out through the year. Besides the work done in the Neighbor- 
bood Guild, afisistance has been given in the Girls' Friendly 
Bociety, Sewing School, and in the Sabbath schools of the neigh- 
Jborbood. 

Nor have the residents faded to consider the larger questions 
^suggested by the conditions which they are studying. An at- 
^mpt to arouse public sentiment for tlie sake of improving the 
public school system of New York has thus far been unsuccessful, 
but the matter, of course, demands persistent effort. 

The Settlement has been fortunate in having a physician as 
a resident. She has opened up a lai'ge field of work, the work 
which the Settlement cares most to do, helping one sick neigh- 
bor, befriending another in trouble, finding work for a 
whose illness has taken away a former means of support. 



28 Beekmun Sirwt. 



often through the phjsicum that cbssb are known where it li 
poBaible to inaku conDectiim between one who needs help and a 
person or an organization ready U> give it. 

The bath rooms in the basement, where bathu are sold for ten 
cents each, have been patronized to an unexpected extent 
During the summer nionttis the average number of baths given 
ia a (la; baa been thirty-five. Women often come several miles 
for the privilege offered. 

The yai'd has been fitted up with swings and a pile of land, 
and on Satunlays the boys and girls are admitted. 

During the summer an ice-water fountain attached to the 
fence has been in constant use, and ha* been, apparently, a powet- 
ful rival of the saloons. 

Flowers have be«n received in abundance during the spring 
and early summer from f liends of the Settlement, and it has been 
a delight to the residents to giv« such flowers to their neighbon 
and friends. The child who, after ten days' anxious care of her 
one tiny sprig of arbutus, lamented that her '•flower" wi 
a'ready," was not the only one who cherished her bit of color and 
fragrance long after both qualities were gone. 

A '"Good Seed Society," held on Sunday afternoons, and c 
posed largely of little Jews, has been maintained through the 
year. An attempt is made to appeal to tlie spiritual nature of 
the children through the things which they can see and iiandle, 
and to interest them in their own growth — through that itf 
"green things." 

The latter part of Suniiay afternoon is given up to an informal 
singing service where all go and come as they lUce. Boys and 
girls of aU ages come in to sing, and mothers with their babiee 
are occasional vinitors. Even through the cold weather many of 
the neighbors sit with open windows to hear the music, and there 
is always a smaU crowd of interested lookers-on before the door. 

The summer work has necessarily differed from that in the 
winter in nature and amouut. Dr. Hamilton remained through 
July and August, while Miss Fine, the Head Worker, was taking 



m. a 








There have been at no time diirii^; tlieae two 

lonths more than two othei' residents. Moat of the club work 

B been dropped, butthebouEe lias been open as usual on "librtuy 

*-day"andon "yardday." TlieSunday work hasaleo been kept up. 

There have been weekly excursions, eepecially for sick and 

tired women, to Staten Island, Manbattan Beach and othor plac 

where good air gives a suggestion, if not promise, of streugtb. 

Much time has been spent by tlie summer reaidenta in organ- 
izing partiee for Sea Isle City, N. J. Mr. Atwater, of Oerman- 
town, Pa,, offered to the Association the use of a bouse for the 
Money waa specially donated for summer expenses, 
d that which had been a vague plan for a dim future became 
D immediate poxaibility. Tlie iioiiee is pleasantly located on the 
tew Jersey coast, and is most suitable for the purpose. It was 
""necessary to furnish it for the use of the Settlement Miss Water- 
man, wbo had been a resident for two months, consented to 
assume charge of the summer home. An opportunity was given 
to all club members to go for two weeks each. Tfae expense was 
one dollar ($1.00) each fur the children, two dollars ($3.0U) for the 
older onee, and five dollars ($5.00) for those earning full wages. 
The house accommodated eighteen children and three helpers, and 
^^^-wae full during tiie two months while it was open. The plan 
^^■BEoved thoroughly successful, and will doubtless become a per- 
^^Bnament part of the work of the Settlement, The young people 
^^K^ned in vigor with aslMnishing rapidity, and received witli 
^^Kfttdinesa many of the suggestions made to them. The hold 
^^^■Bined will be of great value in the regular work in New York. 
^^K Thttt which is the peculiar featm'e of the Settlement, as has 
^^^leeit often said, is that it is simply a home where those who wish 
may go and hre for the sake of becoming the friends of those 
about them. Thus it becomes impossible to give in any report a 
satisfactory account of the work. Such an account would be a 
statement of the work done during every day by every residenL 
The informal relations between the Settlement and many of its 
neighhorsare a basts for much friendly intercourse. 



|Uir \lork: 



58 B.>f kman Street. 



Irtiere has been in the minds of many a Berioue questitffl 
whether tlie life would not prove unwholeeoQie for those who 
entered it. To this question there can be but one answer after a 
year of experience. As at Tojnbee Hal), it has proved true that 
the "colon; " plan makee the life a reasonable and natural one. 
The family life of educated women with congenial tastes, com- 
mon interests and independent convictions is a relaxation in itself. 
Ttie residents leave the place with reluctance and are eager to 
return to it. The physical conditions are not as hard as it waa 
expected that they would lie. The house is in excellent condition, 
and every resident can regulate her own amount of work. The 
verdict o( most of tlie residents on their own work is tliat they 
have done little and learned much. Every one feeis that the gain 
[o herself and thus to her future work can not be measured. All 
are agreed that the life is a rarely happy one. Though the period 
of residence varies from three months to a year or more, the strong 
permanent element in the house seems to give the work character. 
To the children, every "teacher," who comes back to Rivington 
Street even for a day, is " coming home." 

The work is not in any sense a charity. Every resident pays < 
board ($C.OO per week), and the house has been almost entirely 
self-supporting this year. It is desired to meet people to some ex:- 
tent on their own plane. Fortliis reason a part of the housework 
is done by the residents, who find the plan a sattsfactory one. 

On Fridays the residents receive visitors who are interested 
in the Settlement. The work is so arranged that on other days 
the rooms as well as the workers are engaged. 

The question is often asked how far the College Settlement is 
a religious work. It was hoped in the beginning that the work 
would be one in wliich people of varying convictions might labor 
together harmoniously. This hope has thus far been fulfilled. 
As the Settlement is in tlie midst of a population of German Jews, 
any definite religious work in the house would destroy much of 
the influence gained. Such work can be done to best advantage 
tlirough the Churches, and as has been said, many of the residents 



I 



I 





u 

IS way. Each one ia at liberty to work out her own 
■■oonWctioHB. Those who woald succeed must come to the work 
r with the eameatness which can wait and the love wliich "beareth 
all things, " and ' ' hopeth all things. " 

What ai-e the "' resultaV " Certainly the residents are rect^- 
nized as the friends of those about tliem. The children turn to 
^^^ them with the joy of every acquisition and the grief of every loaa. 
^^H The club boys of sixteen and seventeen years are proud of their 
^^B oonnection witli the house and eager rivals in its good opinion. 
^^^ Even some of the older women turn to the r««idents as friends 
upon whom they can rely. Those who know the work best do 
not look for results other than this friendly relation in any near 
future. The work, if it is anything, is a process of education, 
Chanmter is not formed in a year. In all the club work the object 
constantly sought is helpful, pereonal contact. All methods are 
simply a means to tliia end. For this reason the number of mem- 
bers in each club is limited. If the higher is ever to give an uplift 
• to the lower, must it not be through this method of friendship? 
Such a relation implies giving and taking on both sides, and 
the workers at the Settlement find one of the stiongest points 
gained by residence to be, that their neighbors have a chance to 
do something for them, a chance which is often improved. The 
Settlement is one of the influences which go to form the Uvesof 
the people in Rivington Street. If it shall create any higher 

I ideals or quicken any aBpirations, if it shall awaken one soul to 
■ny sense of its own nature, the object of the College Settlement 
Will surely be attained. 
Helen C. Rand, 
Westfield, Mass., ) chairman Executive Committee. 

Sept. 1. 1890, ) 



I 



y * Wilson, Trintekb iNi> StatiQI 
2S Beekman Street. 



1803. 



REPORT OF ELECTORAL BOARD. 



While the Ck>llege Settlements Association is too young for it 
to be necessary to offer a report of the organization, a few words 
may be said in explanation of the methods and aims of the 
Association. 

The mere existence of the Association demonstrates the fact 
that the College Settlement is no longer a private enterprise. 
Membership is open to everyone upon the payment of an annual 
fee ($5.00). 

As the Treasurer's report indicates, a membership of six 
hundred is necessary for the support of the New York Settlement. 
The Association was only formed in February, and this fact 
doubtless accounts for the present failure to reach the required 
number. 

It is by the advice of non-collegiate friends that the control 
of the Association is kept in the hands of college women. At the 
same time residence is open to non-collegiate women, and one of 
the present members of the Executive Committee is not a college 
woman. 

The working plan of the Association can be learned from the 
Constitution (see p. 21). It will be seen that the control of the 
the Settlement is ultimately thrown into the hands of the Associa- 
tion through the election of the Electoral Board. Four colleges 
are this year represented on the Board of Electors. 

The Association is purposely made elastic, to provide for the 
future extention of the Settlement movement. It may be years 
before the wisdom, the money, or the workers are ready for the 
establishment of another Settlement. Wise haste is always 
deliberate, and at present all the energy of the Association must 
be concentrated in New York ; but here is the preparation for a 
broader undertaking. The Association is thus limited in no sense 
by local considerations. Even the New York work is not local, 






\^ 




13 

iat typical. We rnnut take time to learn our leeaone well there, 

I before trying to teach them elsewhere, but the scope of the Asso- 
I elation will ultimiitely be detBrmiaed only by the limit of the 
I support given to it. 

While all are welcomed to the work, the Settlement aimu to 
I be a diHtinctivQ work of college women, to express their convic- 
f tion of their responsibility towards tlie social need of the times 
and their faith in the method of fellowship and personal com- 
munion, as the most direct mode of ministering to that need. The 
management of the enterpiise lies chiefly in the hands of college 
imen. Responeibility for its HUC<7ess is theirs also. 

VIDA D. SCUDDER, 
Secretary of Electoral Board. 
Applications fur residence should be made to Miss Helen C. 
I Band, Weetfield, Mass. 

Application for memhership should he sent to Miss Vida D, 
I .Scudder, 250 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass. 







eekinan Street. 



REPORT ON RESIDENTS. 



During most of the year 1889-'90, the house at 95 Rivington 
Street has held seTen residents, the number which it was 
originally intended to accommodate. Through March there were 
eight, and for two weeks nine. In May there were six, in June 
four, and during July and August not more than three at any 
time. Experience proves that it is especially difficult to secure 
residents for the late spring, the summer and the early fall. For 
other months there are many applications. 

At Sea Isle City there were three helpers during most of the 
summer. With the exception of Miss Waterman, who had 
charge of the house, the residents stayed from one to four weeks 
each. 

It is felt to be desirable to increase the minimum of residence 
at the Settlement as soon as possible, and to have a large pro- 
portion of residents who can stay ten months. The min i mum 
has this year been two months. Two exceptions to that 
rule appear on the list; in one case the resident was a sub- 
stitute ; in the other she spent the month of July at the Settlement, 
a time when it would be unreasonable to ask a longer stay. 

The list of residents for the coming year contains several who 
return for a second period, and will thus be specially valuable. 

RESIDENTS, OCT. 1, 1889, TO SEPT. 1. 1890. 

MUNTUS. 

Miss J. G. Fine, S. , *83 (Head Worker), 9 

Dr. C. F. Hamilton, S., '85, 11 

Miss C. C. Church, S., '89, ... 9 

** J. E. Robbins, S., '83, ... S^ 

** Grace Gallaudet, S., '86, ... 4 

*' M. B. Damon, WeL, '86, ... 3 

'* C. S. McMurtry, WeL, '79, ... 2)^ 



'.•.>•»-• 



15 

Miffl M. P. Waterman, Wei., SI. 
■■ CO. Wolcott, S., 'S3, 
■■ H. C. Rand. S,. W, 
" B. M. Rickoff, v.. . 
- H. a Swazey, S., '85 
■' E. M. Dmry, Wei,. ■711, 
" Lizzie Johnnuu, S., '^3, 
■■ A. M. Mills. S., '«4, . 
" CaiTie RobbiiiB, . 

VIHITUR.S. 

Miss E. M. Atwater, B. M, 

MiseEmUj Balcli, B. M., 'H«. 

Misa A. M. BaiTett, 

Miaa Gertrude Chandler, Wei., 'Tit, 

Miss Katherine Cumaa. Wei.. '80. 

Mias C. J. Emory. S.. '8o. 

MisaM. Fine. Wei., '89. 

Misa L. D. Gillett. 

Dr. Hieetaud, 

Miss M, A, Jolmsan, H., '84. 

Miss Bopbia Kirk. 

Misa M. H. Mather, S., 'sa. 

MiBB A. L. Owen, S., '81. 

Miss Packard, V. 

Dr. Grace Preston, S., '83. 

Mies Hattie Robbins, B. M. 

MisB M. G. Hogera. S,, '84. 

Mjfls V. D. Seudder, S., '34. 

Miss Smythe. 

MissC. M. Williams, S,, 8a. 

RESIDENTS AT SEA ISLE CITY. 

MissM. P. Waterman, Wei., '81. 

Mies E. M. Atwat«r, B. M. 

Miss A. M. Barrett. 



s Ot Wilson, Pkintebs asd 
8R B4>ckinan Street. 



16 



Miss C. J. Emoty,S., '85. 
Miss Julia Loos. 
Miss Mary B. Loos. 
Miss A. L. Owen. S., 81. 
Miss J. E. Robbins, S., '83. 



HELEN C. RAND, 



Westfield, Mass. , ) Secretary on Residents. 



.Sept. 1, 1890 



LSS., I 



r^-o 



\.. 



^% 





PP 




REPORT OF 


THE TREASURER. 




COKTKIB 


ti'.inn iS89-i8f)o. 




Dr. H. R Adama, 




^S 00 


Mr. W. P. Andrews, . 








8 00 


Miss Maude Austen, 










10 00 


■' Mary Baker, 










600 


■.- Helen Baldwin, 










20 00 


■• Mary Bancroft. . 










8 DO 


•' Helen Barney. 










50 00 


Through Miss Barrett (for Sea Isle City), 








45 00 


MiBs Helen Hartley, 










400 


Hre. Carl BaruB, 










000 


Hiss LiUy BillingB, 










10 00 


Mr. BillingB, 










WOO 


Hi88 Brooks, , . 










00 


Rev. Phillips Brooks, . 










60 00 


Hra. William H. Bryant, . 










100 00 


Hiss Mary Case, 










800 


^^ ■• Gertrude W, Clark. . 










5 00 


^K ■■ Florence B. Dike. 










100 00 


^B ■' Ella M. Dmry, 










36 00 


^nfrs. E. P. Dutton, . 










100 00 


^^TJr. J. M. Dutton, 










20 00 


Mise Sarah J. Eddy, . 










60 00 


Mrs. M. K W. French, . 










15 00 












« 00 


Friend, 










aoo 


Friendfl, 










34 00 


PriMld. 










1 00 


^^erd, . 










200 












35 00 


f"' " 






a 00 






line ^oth: 


m 




^^^^H 


'iLsoN, Pbintkbs and Static 
•iS Beeltraoti Street. 

lP(p,'. 





Friend. .... 


$S00 


Friend (for Bath rooms). 


10 00 


Friend (for Librarj'). 


S 00 


Friend (for loe-water Fountain), 


100 00 


MiB8K.A.Oi.ge, 


26 00 


" Grace Gallaudet, 


M 00 


" H. Gray 


25 00 


Itfr. Joel Goldthwait, . 


10 00 


MiM A. B. Hall. 


5 00 


" Josepliine HarriuKtou, 


5.00 


Hre. Hasbrouck, 


3 00 


" Hinchliff, 


10 00 


Hiss Marian Hovey 


5000 


" Florence Hutch ill son, 


H 00 


" Annie Jackson, 


10 00 


•* K. S. Jameson, . 


500 


Through Miss II Johnson. 


WOO 


Hn. S. B. Eebew, . 


25 00 


Mise L. A. Kilham, 


10 00 


Mrs. C. B. Kimball, . 


100 00 


Hiss Hannah P. KimbaU. 


815 00 


'• 8. Kimball. 


25 00 


Mre. M. D. KimbaU. 


50 00 


Mies E. C. Lawrence. 


100 00 


" EliseSorge, 


31 00 


tin. Setb Low, 


100 00 


Hiss S. L. Hagone, 


600 


Mrs. Horsb. 


600 


" Mead. .... 


10 00 


Hiss BesBie Herriam, 


10 00 


■• A. M. Mills, 


100 00 


Mr. A. C. Rand (for Household Eipensee), 


50 00 


Mise Helen C. Rand, 


20000 


" Jennie Richardson, 


5 00 


" Grace Rogers. 


600 



19 


1 


Mr. E. B. Rosen, .... 


$26 00 M 


■■ Schiff. 




150 00 B 


Mra, n. L. Scudder. . 




lU UO ■ 


Slisa V. D. Scudder. 




2^0 UO ^^ 


" M. L. Stevens, . 




(Ml ^^H 


■■ A. E, Ticknor. 




UO ^^1 


'■ TylBr 




10 00 ^^H 


■ Cornelia Warreu. 




400 00 ^^1 


■■ Harriet Whita, . 




^^H 


■• Charlotte Willard, . 




^^1 


Mra. M. W. Wilkinson. 




r>o 00 ^^1 


MissWiUiams. .... 




00 H 


■• Charlotte WilliamHon, 




21) 00 ■ 


Seu. E, O. Wolcott(for SuiiimtT Eipenaes), 




1IKJ 00 H 


Miss Ida Wood. 




00 ^M 


'■ Georgiana Woodbury, 




^^H 


Members of Brearlej School, . 




687 ^^H 


8 Brearley Girb, 




^^M 


2 ■■ ■■ . 




00 ^^H 


Meiribera of Brearley School (for Sewing Machine), 


40 60 ^H 




■2S 00 ^^H 


Reading at Miss Brown's School (for Public Bath-roouis 


^^H 


Through Dr. Hamilton (for Christmas Work). 


00 ^^H 


Undergraduates of Bryii Mawr College, 


100 00 ^^H 


Beading (t)irough llisa M. P. Brace), 


m ^^H 


Undergraduates ofVo8BarCoUege(throughMih!sAUaiiih 


^^H 




00 ^^H 


«5,0T3 00 ^^M 


In addition to money contributione, many gifts of 


much value ^^^H 


have been received at the Settlement. Such gifte 


have aided ^^^| 




e it possible ^^H 


to extend the work. We may note specially the gift 


a heater ^^^H 


for the public buth-rooms, a gift made by Dr. E. M 


r. Higbee of ^^M 


Northampton. Furniture, pictures, ChriBtmas prese 


for the ^^^^H 


^^^^ 


""^l 


^^^^H BnowN & Wiusox, Printeics am> Statiunekh^ ^^^^^^| 


^^^^H 2S Beebiaan Strerl. 


^^^H 


^^^^H 


^1 




30 

children, flowere for diBtribution, towels for the bath-rooraB, cloth- 
ing to be used by the phjrBician. kad artiolee of various sorts useful 
in the bouaeliold and in the work, have been donated. Miss 
Hannah Kimliall of Boston has placed a hot-water furnace in the 
house, whidi will mahe the coming winter much easier than the 
last for the reaidenta. 

It was nece8staj7 in order to secure the house, to rent it from 
May 1, 1889. The expenditure for this year, therefore, includeH 
the rent for sixteen months. 

Names of members who have already paid membership fees 
for 1890-01 will bo printed in the nest annual report. 

The Treasurer'a account presents five different classes of ex- 
penses. Those under the heading of " Alterations and Furnish- 

" (?l,75.')..'i4), areexpenses necessary in fitting the house for use 
and in furnishing it. These expenses would lie slight if occur- 

at all another year. The expenses of running the house this 
year exceed by only a small amount the income received from 
board of residents and sale of baths. If we assume that ' ' General 
Expenses" ($3,951.34), and ■■Printing and Postage" («115.67) will 
be approximately the same another year, it is evident tliat an 
income of $3,000 is necessary for the effective working of the 
house. Additional money is needed if a summer home is to be 
maintained. 

In many cases expenditure has been made in a line indicated 
by a donor. Thus money was specially donated for use at Christ- 
mas, for materials for Club work, fur summer excursions, for 
mainta.ining a house at Sea Isle City, for amusements at Sea Isle 
City, for a puttlic ice water fountain, for a sewing machine, for 
the library, for piano rent, for public bath-rooms, for lightening 
the household drudgery, etc. Such exj)enditure is of course not 
an actual necessity, but has been of great value to the work, 
BEETHA HAZARD, 



ROXBURY, Ma98., ( 

Sept. 1, 1890, l' 



Treasuia. 



Board from residenf '^ 
Public Batha, 
Cootributious to Col 
Rent (sub-letting of ^ 



I3B.54 
591.3.1 
UQ.iU) 
I41.a» 

47.28 
30.00 
4».,'iO 

■10. 01) 



3im ^ot^: 
BitowN & Wilson, PniNraiis and Sf*'' 
38 lieekaiiui Street:, 



]S!«3. 



tWr TotM, and a majorttjr vote of the entire Board is neoeBaar; I 
to election. 

IX — The Executive Committee fur each Settlement shall con- 
sist of three elective memliers, and, ex-officio, the Head-Worker 
of the Settlement. The Committee shall add to its number one 
member. The majority of the Committee must be chosen from, 
members of the Association resident in the neighborhood of tiifi 
Settlement. 

X. — The officers of each Committee shall be a Chairman, a 
General Secretary on Hesidente, a Secretary and a Treasurer. 

XI. — The Executive Committees shall be responsible for the 
entire management of the Settlemeuto, and shall control in what- 
soever way seems to them beet, the admission of residents and the 
administration of funds. They shall, when neceesarj, elect 
Head-Workers. Tiiey shall, thi-ough their General Secretary, 
draw up every year a report of the work, and submit this Report 
at the annual meeting of the Electoral Board. The Beport, if 
accepted, shall be printed and sent to all members of the Asaoci- 

Xn. — Themajority of the residents in a Settlement at any one ' 
time shall always be College womeu. 

Xni. — Tills Constitution may he amended or enlarged by a 
majority of tlie Electoral Board at any annual meeting. 



i 



U'l 




■JM .^ - M " " 



S ECOND 



ANNUAL REPORT 



I'ollegi! Settlements j^ssociatioii_ 



FOR THE YEAR 1891. 



BitowN * Wilson. Pbintehs and stationers, 
38 B^ekmaB Strwt. 



EXECTTTIVE COMMITTEES APPOINTED BY THE 
ELECTORAL BOARD. 



NEW YORK SETTLEMENT. 

Miss Makoarbt PiEBaoN, Chairman, 

11 Hillyer Street, Orange, N. J. 
MisB Helen C. Rand, Secretary on BesidetitB, 

Westfield, Mass. 
MisB Bertea Hazard, Treasurer, 

IS Centre Street, Rosbury, Mass. 
Miss Jean G. Fink, Headu-orker, 

93 RiTiBgton Street, New York City. 



PHILADELPHIA. SETTLEMENT. 



Mr. J. Rodman Paul, Chai 

903 Pine Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 
MiBH Hannah Fox, Sec'y of Ex. Com. and of Residents, 

330 S. Broad Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 
JlisB E. M. Kane, Treasurer, 

1024 Clinton Street, Philadelphia, Pa, 
MiBs L. G. Davis, Germantown. Pa. 
Mr. Wm. Wharton Smith. Germantown, Pa. 
MIbb Susan P. Wharton, 910 Cliutoa St.. Philadelphia, Pa, 
Mr. James Wister, Germantown, Pa. 
Misa Ida Wood, 2038 Spring Garden St, , Philadelphia. Pa. 



ApphcatioQS for residence in the New York Settlement ahould b 
to Miss Haad, Westlleld, Mass. Board wiU not exceed JB.OO. 



Applications for residence in the Philadelphia Settlement should h 
made to Miss Fox, 839 S. Broad Street, Philadelphia. Board will not exceed J 



REPORT OF THE EIiECTORAL BOARD. 



The College SettlemeDtB AaBociation was formed io the spriog of ' 
1B90; it has thus esiHted as a formal organtzatiOD for a year and 
a half. There were many reasons of eipediency for placing the 
control of the movement towards College Settlements fcr women 
in the hands of an association ; the chief reason, however, lay above 
the ephere of the expedient. The Aetjociation exists indeed to 
furnish financial support to the Settlements, but this is ueiiher its 
only nor its highest object. It aims to bi-ing all college womea 
within the ecope of a ootnmon purpose and a common work. i 

A College Settlement has a two-fold value. Its first aim is direct 
and obvious. It concentrates its power on the definite effort to bring 
brightness and help to a limited neighborhood. Such is and must 
remain its primary and in one senne its highest ambition, 
greatest privilege is in simplest hnman fellowship, its best work : 
must always be performed in silence, far from the glare of pub- 
licity, and its results can never be measured. Yet there is an- 
other aspect to the work of a Settlement, Seeking immediate 
afe, it affects remote issues. It aims at direct helpfulness to 
the poor, among whom its lot is cast; it achieves helpfulness 
less direct yet possibly more potent to the cultured from whom its 
strength is drawn. The education of our college women is one 
great mission of College Settlements. Less enticing to those facing 
the grim realities of practical poverty than direct devotion to ob- 
vious need, this work is yet fraught with a wider hope for the future. 
For in the awakened intelligence and consecration of the cultured 
class lies, after all, the most serious promise for the success of thai 
great movement towards social reconstruction in the midst of which 
we live. A College Settlement, by its very existence, possesses a 
quickening power. This power is, of course, deepest and most per- 
manent in the case of the Residents, but it is not confined to them. 
To extend the educating power of the Settlement idea is the object 
of the College Settlements Association. The Association would 
unite all college women, and all who count themseves our friends. 



in the treod of a g^rest modem moTement; woald touch them with 
a common sympathy and inspire them with a common ideal. Espe- 
cially is it well that the yoong stadents still in college shoald join 
those older students whose university is the outer world, and should 
he quickened in their years of vague aspiration and purely specula- 
tive energy by possessing a share in a broad, practical work. 

Such was the aim of our Association. Private and simple as its 
work has been, this aim we may surely say that it has in modest 
measure accomplished. The readiness with which our appeals for 
members have been met, the swiftness with which our numbers have 
grown, indicate a quick response to our appeal on the part of college 
women and their friends. When it is remembered that five dollars 
is a large fee, and that the majority of college women are self-sup- 
porting, the following statements surely hold encouragement. 

The fees for the first year, as we find from our Treasurer'? report, 
were $8,057.25. The colleges then represented were Smith, Vassar, 
Wellesley, Bryn Mawr and the Annex. Since that time we have 
beenjhappy in welcoming Wells and Packer to the colleges repre- 
sonted, and we have good rea*4on to hope that Cornell, which now 
lacks only five of the number necessary to representation, will soon 
join our ranks. 

• To-day, November 7, 1891, we have, connected with the Settle- 
ments Association and paying more or less towards its support, 930 
persons. This, however, does not represent the same number of full 
memberships, as many clubs ans formed in our colleges composed of 
several students who purchase a share together. The following is 
a full statement of present complete memberships: 



8 



Wellahy I Former ■tndeof . 



( Former 8tU(lent& . . 
I PreBcnt students. . 



(Former students U 

j Present Btudents- 12 



Pucker . . 



( Cornell, Wesleyan, Oberlin, 
3fiseed Colleges, \ Mictiigan, California, Bcrst. 

( Amherst, Tale 

Total of Collegiate Membera 

N on -Collegiate Members 



220 



Total Memberphip 723 

Thus it will be seen that we are growing by no meann slowly. 
The interest in the colleges, on which the future strength of the 
movement must depend, is living. At Vasaar and Wellesley, Chap- 
ters of the Association have been formed, which hold frequent meet- 
ings, and keep up knowledge of the Settlement. Happy in our pro- 
gress for the past, we yet hope earnestly for still more rapid progress 
in the future. We have a special, as well as a general reason for cher- 
ishing this hope just now, since we have agreed to render assistance 
to the " St. Mary Street Library," in Philadelphia, and to accept 
the work there as the beginning for a Philadelphia Settlement. 
The " St, Mary Street Library Association " contributes for the 
Settlement a house for two years, g 1)000 for one year, and the use 
of the Stuart Memorial Church, "which contains a hall and three 
clasB-rooms. One of these rooms is fitted up for a cooking school, 
and one as a carpenter shop. With these two buildings, joined by 



the ** Starr Garden " and the hold upon the people already estab- 
lished by the Library Association, the opportunity for work there 
is unusually good. A Boston Settlement is, as we trust, to be opened 
in the Autumn of '92. Rendered possible for next year largely 
through the generosity of private friends, it is of course our desire 
that these Settlements be, as soon as possible, supported by the (the 
real helpfulness of the New York Settlement alike to residents and 
to the neighborhood justifies us in enlarging our work) Association 
so far as essentials are concerned. To these ends, we should have a 
membership of at least 1,600, as the New York work, owing to an 
increase in our rent, now takes 660 membership 'fees a year. We 
confidently hope that during the winter, our members will increase 
to this extent ; we earnestly wish that they might increase yet 
more, since other opportunities, not to be mentioned in detail, press 
in upon us, from more than one direction, with an insistance which 
it is hard to disregard. 

To embrace these opportunities, we need a larger membership en- 
suring larger financial support; more than this, and more urgent, 
we need workers, workers — educated women, ready to devote them- 
selves for longer or shorter periods to the vocation of life among the 
poor. Many such women have answered our appeal : to them we 
tender gratitude and honor. More, undoubtedly would seek to 
enter the life were it not that the insistent need for self-support 
presses heavily upon the majority of our college women. The es- 
tablishment of fellowships for women who seek to pursue sociologi- 
cal studies in College Settlements would perhaps help our movement 
more than any other one thing. Meanwhile, even under present 
conditions, we trust that workers will appear in numbers larger and 
larger as the years go on. The community, as a whole, has re- 
ceived us with cordial welcome; it has shown itself only too ready 
to hail in college women a distinct factor in the solution of social 
problems. We may say, with the humility born of the conscious- 
ness of opportunities greater than our powers, that our wo?'k need 
seemingly know no limits except such as we shall ourselves assign. 

ViDA D. SCUDDER, 

Sec. JElectoral Board, 



10 



REPORT OF THE NEW YORK SETTLEMENT.* 



The report of the second year of The College Settlement ia 
rather the story of the coniiDuatlon of its first year's work than the 
account of new enterprises. We have found it wise and desirable 
to carry on most of the work which was planned the first year, and 
those who are familiar with our earlier report know the lines in 
which we have worked. Our organized efforts have been largely in 
clubs, for these organizations are well knowo in this part of the 
city, and it seemed more practicable to adapt old forms than to 
introduce new ones. The club work which was undertaken the 6r8t 
year has been continued with good success. We feel that our boys 
have grown more manly, more considerate of others, more courteous 
and more helpful. Our girls are more quiet, more anjtions to 



■\j accomplishm 



( becoming i 






acqui 
gentlei 

In the Library, order has come from chaos and the use of the 
books has been very satisfactory. The fact that there is a free 
circulating Library in our house is now well known in the public 
schools, and every week brings more applicants for membership 
than can be accepted, By our first year's experience we learned 
that it was not wise to have more than four hundred boys and girls, 
belonging, as they say, to the library. This number is exclusive of 
our club boys and girls who change their books at the regular club 
meetings- As a very largo percentage of our library members 
attend every week, we have thought it better to know a smaller 
number so well that we could have an opportunity to influence their 
reading and to siiperinlend their games, than to have a large 
number passiug with less attention, through our 
the number of boys and girls taking books fron 
than last year, the number of books read hat 
li&at year our circulation of books was six tboui 



rooms. Although 
1 the library is less 
I largely increased, 
sand; this year our 



record has been ten thousand. Through the kindness of friends, 
many new books have been added to our library, and to-day we 
The shelf contsln- ■ 



have upon our shelves fifteen hundred volui 



ing the United States HiatorieB is by far tbe moat popular among 
the boys ; books of travel and the bound magazines are also in 
great demand. The fiction that is read is of a ^ood order. 

The work in our savings bank has also grown. Our station of the 
Penny Provident Fund was eaiabUshed tlie first year, bnt tbe building 
up of the business has been slow. During the first year we considered 
tliat a reoord of six or eight deposiiors was one to be mentioned 
wilb pride: now in the banking hour we often have from fitly to 
aeventy-five depositors. The suins iuft in our keeping vary from 
one cent, which is a common amount, up to six dollars wbicli lias 
been the largest single deposit. The bank accounts frequently run 
up to ten dollars, but usually, there is some immediate object in 
view for which tbe money is saved, aa the buying of clothes and 
Ohriatmaa presents, or the anticipated Summer outing. 

We have also felt encouraged about our Public Baths. During 
the Slimmer our two bathrooms were taxed to the ulmcsl. In 
July and August, over one thousand ba'tha were taken and litly-nine 
of these were in one day. 

Notwithstanding the fact that most of our strength has necesaar- 
iiy gone into carrying on our already established work, we have 
started several new clubs. Two of these clubs were for little girls j 
one, the Rofiebuds, consists of twenty Uttlu maidena between six 
and ten yeflrs of age; the other, the Rainbows, of girls from ten to 
fourteen years. These clubs exactly correspond in age with the 
school girls clubs of which we have had charge at the Neighborhood 
Guild, but we felt that it would be a great advantage to us to have 
clubs of these ages in our own house. We now have with our girls 
a series of three clubs, and tbe members pass from one club into 
another with advancing years. It is probable that in another year 
we shall flud it necesaary to establish a young women's club, aa our 
sixteen year old giris outgrow their present surroundings. With 
this system we feel that everything ia in our favor for keeping our 
girls with ue from their baby days to their maturity. Even now 
our hold upon our girls is strong euough for us to be able to induce 
a number of them to go out to service in the country. They are 
satisfied and are giving satisfaction. When we remember their 
preference two years ago for ill-conditioned shop- work, we count it 
a success that tbe sentiment in favor of going-out to service is in- 
creasing. 



Our tbird new club hss heen one of yoang men about 
dghleen years of age. We have ihonglit it b great gain 1o have 
tbem wish to come into the boose, for it has meant that tbe boys in 
the clube next yoaoger would not begin to feel in a year or two thai 
ihey had oalgrown our house as so many of them have onlgro' 
Sunday School, These young men, realizing as the younger boy»' 
cannot, that they will soon be citirenB, have been studying civU 
government with considerable inlerest. This club has been in many 
wiiys the most satisfactory one in the house. The members have 
been very helpful to ub as they have been old enough for the eier- 
taee of a manly chivalry. Since the formation of this clnb, difiturb- 
ances upoA onr door steps have been rare and life has been ea^er 
for us in many other ways. These young men, with a few others, 
come in on Sunday Evenings for a Choral Club. The strong German 
dement in this ward means thai mueic is a jHtwer, and we are trying 
to make it a power for good. The day of rest which gives the one 
opportnuily in the week for entire fre^om and recreation, offers, 
also, various lemptations for yoting men, and that the members of 
Uie Choral Club hare cared to come back irom a day's Gahing in 
time for the singing indicates that they really value the hour. 

This Aalumn a Mother's C!nb has been undertaken and very suc- 
cessfully carried on by a former resident ol the Settlement^ who still 
comes to us every week. The aflemoon is mainly a social one and 
^e effort made for improving and brightening the every-day life of 
the members is good to see. Light refreshments are served and 
mneic is generally provided. This Club has many ho]>eful plans, 
but its report belongs properly to 1892, 

Onr one other new work the last year has been a Vesper Servtoe. 
We have held it on Sunday afternoons from November ontil May. 
This 8er%-ice haa been the outgrowth of last Winter's informal hour's 
nugiDg. It has been possible by very gradual modifications to 
diaoge the singing to a real serriee. To this Vesper Service come 
Oiir older boys and girls and their mothers. It seems to us well 
VHth wbile that boys with no Church associaUons should sing with 
ntbanasm oar standard Church hymns, ehonld listen, with such 
attention as few ministers receive, to a scripture recitation and 
•boold reverently chant the Lord's prayer. 

In gUnong back over the year's work many discouTagvmeau 

■r aattinlly to the memory. The glamor and romaiK« of ihe tint- 



3 



year were gone, and we had come down to hard facts. The 
picturesqueness had vanished, and the dirt seemed dirtier and the 
vice more revolting. But that is only a partial view for the year has 
been one of great hopefulness. We know now that our neighbors 
consider us their honest friends. They believe that we care for 
them personally, that we are interested in their individual joys and 
sorrows and share our own with them. Our out-stretched hands 
have met in the warm clasp of friendship, and we no longer realize 
that there is supposed to be a gulf between the different classes of 
society. We have found that we have a place in the world where 
we may help and be helped. Perhaps our greatest encouragement 
has been to learn that religious prejudices were not so strong as we 
had been taught to fear. When we find Roman Catholics, Greek 
Catholics, all sects of Protestants, standing shoulder to shoulder 
and saying ^*we are all Christians," and our Hebrew neighbors 
saying to us **why should we quarrel, is it not all one God ?", we 
believe that the time of which we have all dreamed is near enough 
to be worked for, the time when all, feeling the Fatherhood of God, 
shall call every man his brother. 

Jean Gubney Fine, 

Head' Worker, 



14 



r 



A schedule of the more definite work of the Settle— J 
ment Is given below, with tlie number of Residents lu-l 
charge of each club, and a brief atatement of the puivj 
pose of the dlflferent clubs. > ■ 

SUNDAY. I 

9 A. M. — Two Sunday School CiaBseB. Two resideatB. ■ 

2 P. M. — Two Sunday School ClasaeB, Two residents. 1 

2.30 to 3,30 P. M.— Good Seed Society, Two residents; two 1 

outside workers. Sixty boys and girls from 5 to 12 years 

old. Hymba and stories. 

4 to 6 P. M. — Vesper Service. All the residents. Fifty boys and 

girls with a few women. 

5 to 8 P. M. — Mother's Tea. All the residents. I 
S to 9 P. M. — Choral Club. Two residents. Twelve young men, I 

18 to 20 years old. M 

MONDAY. I 

3.30 to 5 P. M. — Roaebnd Club. Two residents; one oatsidfrJ 

worker. Twenty girls from 6 to 10 years old. Sewing^ I 

gymnastics, singing and games. 1 

7 to 8 P. M. — Penny Provident Fund Bank. Two residents. From I 
50 to 100 children. I 

7 to 9 P. M. — A. O. v. Club. Three residents. Twenty-six girls ' 
from 14 to 17 years old. Cooking, gymnastica, talks, sing- 
ing and gameH. 

B to 9.30 P. M. — Reading Room. One resident. J 

TUESDAY. I 

3.30 to 5 P. M.— Rainbow Club, Two residents. Sixteen girU m 
from 10 to 14 yeard old. Sewing, singing, gymnastics andtl 
games. 1 

7 to 8 P. M. — Penny Provident Bank. Two residents, I 
7.30 to 9.30 P. M. — Hero Club, One resident; one outside worker. 1 

Siiteeu boys, 14 to 18 years old. Business meeting, talks, I 
Indian clubs, military marching, music and games. I 

8 to 9.30 P, M. — ^Improvement Club. (Neigbborhood Guild.) I 

(Three residents.) Twenty girls from 18 to 26 years old, I 

Cooking, dressmaking and painting. I 

IS I 



WEDNESDAY. 

3 to 5 P. M, — Tiibrary. All tlie reaidente. One Outside Worker. 
Two huodred boye and girls from 10 to 14 yeara old. Ex- 
change of books, and games. 

7 to 8 P. M.— Penny Provident Fund Bank. Two residentB. 

8 to 9.30 P. M. — Reading Room aa on Monday. 

7 to 9 P. M. — Library. All the reeidents. One ontpide Worker. 
Two hundred boys and girls from 14 to 18 years old. Ex- 
change of books; games. 

THURSDAY. 

3.30 to 5.30 P, M. — Rosebud Club as on Monday, 

3.30 to 5.30 P. M.— Mayflower Club. (Neighborhood Guild.) 

(Two residents.) Tliirty-six girls, from 10 to 14 years old. 

Sewing, crocheting, gymnastics, games, music, 
7 to B P, M. — Penny Provident Fund Bank. 
7 to 9 P. M.— A, O, V. Club as on Monday. 

9 to 1 1 P. M. — P. O. C One resident. Business meeting, talks on 

civil government, questions, debates, 

FRIDAY. 

7 to 8 P. M.— Peiiiiy Provident Fund Bank. 

7.30 to 9.30 P, M. — Knights of the Round Table. Two residents. 
Twenty boys, 13 to 17 years old. Bu sin ess meeting, talks, 
singing, games. 

8 to 9 P. M. — The Young Keystones. One outside worker. Ten 

boys, 10 to 14 years old. Scientific talks, games. 

6 to 9.30 P. M. — Reading Room as on Monday. 

SATURDAY. 

10 A. M. to 3 P. M— Yard Day. One resident. Outside Workers. 

Two hundred little children, forty each hour. 
3.30 to 5 P. M. — Rainbow Club as on Tuesday. 
3 to 5.30 P, M. — Mayflower Club as oji Thursday. 

7 to 8 P. M.— Penny Provident Fund Bank. 

7 to 8.30 P. M. — Circles. Four residents. Eight girls in each 

group, 14 to 18 years old. Talks, sewing and quiet games. 
7,30 to 9.30 P. M. — Pacific Club, One resident. One outside 

worker. Ten boys, 14 to 17 years old. Business meeting, 

games, talks, singing. 
8.80 to 10.30 P.M. — Alternate Saturdays. Social Science Club. 

(For the residents and their up-lown friends.) 

le 



REPORT OF THE SUMMER HOME. 



One of the pleasaiitCBt features of tlie ■work of the College Set- 
tlement i§ its Summer Home, for it is there that the friendlieBt. j 
relations between the residenU and the boys and girls may bei'l 
enjoyed. 

This jear the Summer Home was at Katonah, New Tork. The 
house renltd by the College Settlement is a mile and a quarter from 
the depot, on a farm of orchard and paBture land. It was a great 
advantage to have such a large piece of land for the young people 
to wander over, and the berries and apples as they ripened were 
theirs to gather. 

The Summer Home was open frora June 22 to August 29, and 
during that time ninety-four different boys and girls of all ages 
were entertained as friends. All paid something toward the ex- 
penses of the trip. They came, eighteen or twenty at a time, each 
party reraaioing two weeks. They were members of the various 
clubs at the Settlement, so that our previous personal acquaintance 
with them and the comparatively tmall f^ize of the parties made it 
practicable to live with them an intimate family life. The number 
of ladies at the Summer Home varied from two to four. There was 
but one servant most of the time, bo that the boys and girls assisted 
in the housework. This proved a wholesome and satiefactory plan. 
The people of Eatonah were most cordial in their interest, gen- 
erous in their invilalions and delicaie in tlicir attentions, so ihat a 
warm and personal friendship sprang up between them and ihe boys 
and girls. For this we cannot be too grateful, as being in most 
beautiful harmony with the whole theory of the College Settlement 
work. 

The benefits lo the yonrg people of this life at the Summer 
Home are such as would naturally come to the body from a free 
out-of-door life and from an abundance of good country food, and 
tuch as would come lo spirit and to manners from a two weeks' 
daily acquaintance with the graceful courtesies of a home where love 
ie the underlying principle. 

17 



Thtt opportunitiee daring the saminer of speaking the right word 
i»f Mppruvnl or mdrice to the indiTidaal boy or girl are many. Jast 
what that word shoald be is learned by living dose to them 
(Uy aftttr iUy, This personal contact eqaips the workers with cer- 
ialii iiuUviihial ikotsand general traths regarding the character and 
UvMM ikf tlia Youug friends of the College Settlement, that are most 
UH0t\il guidtMi in the work in Rivington Street. 

Th^ Mirt^ugthening and sweetening influence of two weeks of 
piU'i^ hiAaUhtul happiness can not be measured. The boys and girls 
imiriiHl with thom from the'Summer Home bright memories, which 
will Uiit throughout the year, and which will constantly furnish a 
WfilouiU0 Mul^joot of conversation. All the pleasnre enjoyed with as 
HU'uugtiuuiii tht>ir friendship for the College Settlement and thus 
iuiUimMMM iu influence. 

TluiUijhSh the generous gifts of many friends of the Settlement the 
hmitiM at Katoiiah has been rented for the year, and the Summer 
lliuuu liaa l»oot>me|a Sunday Home. During the fall, the early winter 
UUil vhtJ spring, small parties of five or six boys or girls are to spend 
tiuuday iu Katonah, going up Saturday afternoon, and returning 
Muuday u\orning in time for work or school. It is hoped that in 
thisi Sunday Home the particular kind of personal friendship and 
work that was possible in the Summer Home may be continued 
through the year, and that a better idea of a true Sunday may be 
giveu the young people than would be possible amid the noise 
aud attractions of the city. 

Fannie W. McLean, 

Assistant Head 'Worker. 



18 



REPORT ON RESIDENTS. 



The year 1890-91 has shown an increase in the number of appli- 
cants for residence at the College Settlement. It still remains trne, 
however, that in the summer and autnmn the number of workers 
is sometimes too small to carry properly the work of the Settle- 
ment. 

The entire number ot those in residence during the year has 
been twenly-one, while last year it was sixteen. The average 
length of reaidence for each year is four months. During part of 
the year the house has been crowded to its utmost capacity, with 
nine residents, where originally only seven were accommodated. 

The attempt to insist upon ihree mcntha as the minimum of resi- 
dence for new workers has not been entirely succoBsful, but the 
effort is still made to ihus lengthen the time of residence. 

Beveral of the residents for the second year lived at the Settle-J 
raent during some part of the first year, and there has thus been l 
decided growth in the efficiency of the work done. 



RESIDENTS, SEPT. 1, 1890 TO SEPT. 1, 1891. 



Miss Alice E. Anthony, B. M.,'89 Deo. 30 to March 27J_ 

MiBH MaryL, Cockle June 17 to July W.^ 

Dr. Blary B. Damon, Wei., '86 July 1 to Sept. 1.^ 

Miss Jean G. Fine, S., '88 (Head-Worker) Sept. 1 to July 1, 

Miss Dora Freeman, Wei.. '80 Sept. 36 to June 10. 

Dr. Caroline F. Hamilton, S., '85 June 33 t« Sept 1 . 

MiSH Hannah P. Kimball ' Jan, 1 to March 3. 

Mrs. H. M. Laughlin March 3 to June 30. 

Miss Lina Lawrence, B. M., '69 Dec. 30 to March 18. 

Miss Cato Lloyd, ¥. '81 Jan. 21 to May 1. 

Miss Jeanet E. Loomia, WeUs, '89 March 5 to June II. 

Miss Fannie W. McLean, Cal.. 'SBtAss't Head- Worker). March 3 to June 17. 

Miss Caroline S. McMurtrie, Wei Nov, 6 to July 1. 

Dr. Mary Mitchell Oct. 8 to Jan. 7. 

Miss Mary J. Orton Wel.,'90 Sept 93 to Jan. 5 

Miss Helen C. Raud, 3., '84 March 14 to June 8. 

Dr. JaneE. Robbins, S., '83 July 7 to Aug. 31, 

Miaa Lilian M. Stevens, V., 'So, Oct. to Jan, 5. 

Miss Hellene. Swazey, S., '85 Nov. 3 to Jan, 6. 

Uiss Susan de L, Van Rensselaer . .Jan. 12 to March 5. 

Miss Margaret P. Waterman, Wei.. '81 (Sept. S to Oct. 1, and,_ 

( June 9 to Aug. 18.J 



Vinian, 



Miss Marian R. Case. 

Miss Orace Darling, V. , *79 

Miss Emily Denny. 

Dr. J. M. Dutton. 

Miss Ferris, Wei. 

Miss May M. Fine. Wel«, '89. 

Mrs. S. C. Qaylord. 

Miss Bertha Hazard, V., '79. 

Miss Margaret H. Pierson, V., TS. 



Dr. Orace M. Preston, a, '82. 
Miss Florence O. Rand. 
Miss Jessie S. Rand, S., '90. 
Miss Josephine F. Rand. 
Miss Harriet Robbins, B. M. 
Miss Mary S. Thayer, S., '89. 
Miss Emma C. Trycm, S., '93. 
Miss Emily Upham, S., '87. 
MissC<Nmelia Warren. 



RESIDENTS AT SUMMER HOME. 



Miss Anna M. Cheyney. 

Miss Fannie W. McLean, Cal., '85. 

(Assistant Head- Worker). 
Miss Mary S. Pitman, S. , '87. 
Miss Clara M. Reed, S., '87. 



Dr. Jane K Robbins, S., '83. 
Miss Emma C. Tryon, S., '93. 
Miss Caroline S.^cMurtrie, WeL 
Mrs. McLean. 



Westpibld, Mass. 
Sept. 1,^1890. 



Helen C. Rand, 

Secretary on Besidents, 



20 



REPORT OF THE TREASURER. 



Members of the College Settlements Association. 



"WELLESLEY COLLEGE- 



Batea, Katharine L. 
Burrell. Ellen 
Calkins, Mary 
Case, M. S. 
Coman, Katlmrine 
Cooiey, Grace E. 
Edwards, Katharine 
Goodell, A^es 
Hawes, A, E. 
Jewett, Sopiiie 



Knox. M. A. 

Maltby, M. E. 
Miiller. Margarethe 
Montague, A. E, 
Roberta, Charlotte F. 
Pendleton, Ellen 
Sherwood, Margaret 
Seudder, Vida D. 
Whiting, S. F. 
Woodman, Mary 



Allen, C. J. 
Beach, H, E. 
Bancroft, Edith 
Belfield, C. A. 
Bray. H. W. 
Brown, M. L. 
Chambers, Helen 
Converse, Florence 
Cmtis, G. R. 
Emerson, Dora 
Bwing, Eva 



Undergraduates. 

Ferris, Ertninia 
Frost, C. G. 
Glover, Mabel 
Oreen, Eleanor 
Helmer, C. S. 
Hippen, E. E. 
Hollander, Maud 
Jenkins, M. J. 
Lyon, M. W. 
Maddotiks, Caroline 
Mason, Maud 



McLean, Mary 
PuUen, Nettie A. 
Smith, M. L. 
Stewart, C. L. 
Stewart, EmUy 
'■"-m.C. C. 



Thorn, 8. L. 
Underwood, Grace j 
■Ward, K. M. I 

Whitney, Auguflta.'! 



College Subscription $267,50 



Ahimncs and Other Former Students. 

Adams, J. 8., West Park. Ulster Co., N. Y $5.00 

Allen. A. M., 370 Chestnut St. , Chelsea, Mass G.OO 

Ames, A. V., 25 Waunbeck St., Roiljury, Mass 5.00 

Anderson, H. G., Wanwatosa, Wis 6,00 

Andrews, 0. L., 455 Exchange St., Rochester, N. T 0.00 

Andrews, Grace. 185 East a7th St., New York, N.Y 6.00 

Arnold. A. G.. Worcester, Mass 5.00 

Baldwin. Helen, S9 E. "University Ave., Ann Arbor, Mich 5.00 

Banta, Effie, 144 St. James Place, Brooklyn, N. Y 5.00 

* SI 



Barnes. L. C, Binghamton. N. Y 

BarrowB, Evelyn, Hope St.. Providence, R. 1 

Blakealee, Elizabeth, New Britain, Conn 

Bat^a. K L. . Wellealey College, Wellesley, Mans 

BoBwortb, .AJinle, 1U3 V"'" Street, Amesbury. Moss 

Brewster. Sophie. 13 Burnet St., East Orange N.J 

Brown, Lena. Woburn. Mass 

Burlinganie, S. L , Richmoncl Inut., Richmond. Va. 

BurreU, EUlen, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass ... 

Clark, H. M.. Norwich Town. Conn 

Clement. A. S.. Newton Centre, MasH 

Cook, May, Walnut St.. Oak Park. lU 

Curtis, M O, , 106 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass . 

Damon, R. S . Plymouth. Mass 

Davidson. A. B.. 152.') AdamsSt., Scranton Penn 

Dempsey. N. A.. 171 Franklin St., Cleveland, O ' 

DreMer, C M , Castine, Me , 

Dmry, E. M,, 119Sl. BotolphSt.. Boston, Mass 

Duncan, G. L, 17 Seymour St.. Syracuse N. Y 

Fanning, Grace. Tarrytown, N. ¥ 

Fishel. Lillian. Babylon, Long Island, N. Y 

Fiak, M. L,, Brunswick, Me 

Freeman, S. J., c/o Lee. Tweedy & Co. , 86 Worth St., New York, N.Y. 

Friday. L. F., »18 High St., Warren, Penn 

Gamble, E. A M,, 15 Broad St.. Plattsburgh. N. Y 

Glover, Ethel, 1303 2d St., N. W . Washington, D C . 

Qoodeli, Agnes. Welletiley College. Wellesley 

Oowans. Camilla, 129 North St.. Buffalo, N. Y 

Guild, Mrs, M. P., 6 Marlborough St.. Boston. Mass 

Hall, A. A.. Westerly, R.I 

Hay ward, Lena, Tribune Building, New Tork, N. Y 

Hinchliff. Mrs. Wm. E.. 404 N. Main St., Rockford, 111 

Hitcli. M. F., Bedford, Mass 

Holmes, H. W., 2a3 Court St , Plymouth, Mass 

Horton. Katharine, Windsor Locks, Conn 

Eeefe, C. M., Chester, Mass 

Kendrick, E. H.. SHil Spruce St., Philadelphia, Pa 

Knapp, F anni n, Sitka, AJaska 

Lauaerbum, M. D. E.. Hazleton, Pa . . 

Lord. A. L.. Ipswich. Mass . . 

Magone, 8, L., Pass Christian. Miss 

McMurtrie, C, S., Newton, N, J 

Montague A. E, Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass 

Morse. Katharine, North HaverhUl, N, H 

Newcomb. M. D , 37 Seeiey Ave,, Chicago, 111 

Nichols, H. D. , Dudlev, Mass 

Norton. A. M., 309 Pleasant St, , Bennington, Vt 

Palmer. Bertha, !< Mason St. , I'ambridge. Mass 

Peabody. 8 W„ S7 McGregor Ave. , Cincinnati, O 

Fearinaine, Mrs. S B . 53 State St , Boston. Mass . ,. 

Peck, A, L. , Warren, O 

Pendleton, Ellen Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass 

Perry, Grace. 105 State St., Albany, N. Y 

Roberts, C. F., Wellesley College, Wellesley. Mass 

Rogers, Martha, Syracuse. Neb 

Sanborn. H. J., 883 Broadway, Somerville, Mass 

Sherwin, BeUe, 1324 Euclid Ave.. Cleveland, O 

Sibley, Charlotte, Bf Ifast, Me 

Sinclair, Isabelle, Free Institute. Worcester. Mass. 

Smith, Bertha. Blue Hill-i, Hartford, Conn 

Bor^, E. N. , Haroourt Place, Gambler, O . 

a gg^ Emma, Bishop Thorpe's School, South Bethlehem, Pa 




Spra^e, G. E., Hopedale, Mass $2.60 

Spaldfing,M., 601 M. St., N. W., Washington, D. C 6.00 

Stevens, A. A., Windsor, Yt 2.60 

Stewart, E. S., Gloversville, N. Y 6.00 

Storer. H. A., 116 High St., Akron, 6.00 

Storms, S. J., Dedham, Mass 5.00 

Swift, Louise, 89 Henry St., Detroit, Mich 6.00 

Taft, MaryF., Staff ord Springs, Conn 6.00 

Thompson. Mrs. N. F., 63 Chestnut St., East Orange, N. J 5.00 

Wade, C. L., 438 Dearborn St., Helena, Mont 6.00 

Weiss Mollie, HonesviUe, Penn 6.00 

White, L. B., New Britain, Conn 5.00 

Wiggin, M. C, 2101 Spruce St., Philadelphia, Pa 5.00 

Willcox, Yaleria, Maiden, Mass 5.00 

Williams, Mrs. Otis F., Low Place, New Brighton, L. 1 6.00 

Williamson, C. L., 3,230 Michigan Ave., Chicago, ni 5.00 

Woolfolk, A. S., 808 Chicago Ave., Evanston, 111 5.00 

Work, Alice, Akron, 6.00 

Young, Mrs. H. J., Newton Centre, Mass 5.00 

Total $465.00 



23 



SMITH COLLEG-E. 



Faculty. 



Byrd, M.K 
CuBhine. E. P. 
Daval« Mile. Delphine 
Gburdiner, Prof. H. N. 



Hesse, F. C. 
Hopkins, Mrs. K J. 
Joraan, M. A. 
Tyler. Prof. H. M. 



Undergraduates, 

Adams, Belle Keeler, Katherine Shipman, C. J. 

Barker, Florence Kilbon, A. J. Smith, Bertha 

Barton, A. E. Kimball, M. S. Stoddard, May 

Bradford, Stella Learoyd, Elizabeth Stone, Charlotte 

Brown, Edith Lyman, V. D. Strong, Isabel 

Busbey, W. G. 3fay« Margarita Swift, Leila 

-CooUdge, C. H. Miller, E. L. Taft, E. L. 

Drew, Marion Morris, Annie Tryon, E. C. 

Entwistle, Miss Nixon, Mary Twining, Edith 

Estes, J. L. Poole, H. S. Walbridge, W. C. 

Francis, Y. H. Putnam, Helen Waring, M. K. 

Gilbert, C. C. Richardson. E. M. Webster, Laura 

Hagar, M. L. Robinson, F. Weeks, Imc«[ene 

Howe, Jenny Sabin, F. R. Wilcox, E. K. 

Ck>llege Subscription $149.68. 

Alumnce and other former Students, 

Abbot, F. H., with four others, Wilton, N. H $5.00 

Ames, Grace, Bethel, Maine 2.50 

Austin, Maude, Darien, Conn 5.00 

Bartley, H. P., 89 Congress St., Bridgport, Conn 6.00 

Barton, Alice, Freeport, 111 2.60 

Bogue, Stella, 29 East 20th St., New York, N. Y 5.00 

Booth, May, with two others^ New Britain, Conn 5.00 

Brooks, A. S., Maiden, Mass 5.00 

Brooks, Mrs. Morgan, 529 Holly Ave., St. Paul, Minn 5.00 

Bruce, G. A. , with four others, Hudson, Mass 5.00 

Bush, Sally, Salem, Oregon 5.00 

Bushwell, A. M. , 92 Franklin St. , Newton, Mass 5 . 00 

Cadwallader, E. W., 193 N. Perry St., Titusville, Penn 5.00 

Calkins, M. W., Newton, Mass 5.00 

Carr, Agnes, Union Ave. , Dorchester, Mass 5.00 

Cheever, L. S., 8 State St., Worcester, Mass 2.50 

Cone, Mrs. K. M., Hartford, Vt 5.00 

Corns, S. A., 94 E. Main St., Massillon, Ohio 5.00 

Day,C. E., 280 Newbury St., Boston, Mass 5.00 

Eaton, Isabel, 67 Dartmouth St., Boston, Mass 5.00 

Fine, J. G., 95 Rivington St., New York City 5.00 

Fisk. N. P. , Northampton, Mass 10.00 

Franklin, R. B., Newport, R. 1 5.00 

Frost, M. A., vnthfive others, Leominster, Mass 6.00 

Fulton, Mrs. F. S., Norwich. N. Y. 5.00 

Gallaudet, G. W., Kendall Green, Washington, D. C. 5.00 

Gladden, Alice, P. O. Box 614, Columbus, Ohio 5.00 

Greene, Mrs. R. W., 48 E. 26th St., New York City 5.00 

Gulliver, C. C, Norwich Town, Conn 5.00 

Hastings, Mrs. H. D., 71 Elm St., Hartford, Conn ... 25.00 

Higbee, Mrs. E. W. , Northampton, Mass 5.00 

24 



Hill, E. E„ 613 Prospect St, Cleveland, O $5.00 I 

HobUtt. M. S., 508 ISth St.. Des Moines, Iowa B.OO I 

Holmes, Helen, Kingeton, Mass 5 .00 

Holt. Ellen, laie Foreat, 111 6.00 i 

Houghton. Mrs. M. L., 58 Eighth Ave., Brooklyn, N. T 3.50 

Hubbard, Grace, 80 Pearl St.. SpringEeld, Mass 5.00 

Huntington, B. P., 55 North Ave., Cambridge, Mass 5,00 

HutchiuB, Mrs. E, D., Hillaide Ave., Arlington Heights, Maaa 5,00 

Jackson, A, B., 18 E. 47th St., New York City 6.00 

James, Gertrude, 236 Gates Ave, Brooklyn, N. Y 5.00 

Jenkins, A. 8,. fll3 7thSt., Sioux City, la 5.00 

Johnson, M. A , 105 Croton Ave., Sing Sing, N. Y 6.00 I 

Jones, Mrs. D. P., 2031 3rd Ave., Minneapolis, Minn S.OO ' 

King, Mrs. H. E., 3,333 Ashland Ave., Toledo, O 3.00 ' 

Lawrence, E. C, Nowton Centre, Mass 5.00 , 

Mason. M. L,, 184 West Cheater Park, Boston, Maas B.OO 

Mead, K.L.,60E. TOthSt., New York City 6.00 

Merriam, Mrs. Arthur, Biickinghatn St., Springfield, Mass 5.00 

Merriam, Bessie G., 80 Oak St., Providence, R. 1 5.00 

Merriam, F. A., 15 W. 31st St., New York City 5.00 

Mills, A. M..83 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass 5.00 

Norton, Mrs, L. M., Auhumdale, Mass 6.00 

Osgood, M. M., 5 Barton Sq., Salem, Mass 5.00 

Owen, A. L., 76 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass 6.00 

Pratt, L. A., with three others. 776 Main St., Worcester, Mass 6.91 , 

Preston, Dr. Grace A., Northampton, Mass 5,00 I 

Puffer, E. D., Saionville, Mass 5.00 I 

Rand. H. C, Westfield, Mass 5.00 

Band, J- S-, Weatfleld, Mass 5.00 | 

Richardson, C, L., nion,N.Y B.OO 

Rice, Helen R., Newton Centre, Mass , 6.00 

Roberta, Mrs. H. B.. Torrmgton, Conn 6.00 

Rogers, C. W., 346 Newbury St., Boston, Mass B.OO 

Bbgers, Grace, Cincinnatus, N. Y 6.00 . 

Rumsey, Ohve. Smith College, Northampton, Mass 5.00 ' 

Scribner, Ella, Tarrytown, N. Y 5.00 

Seelye, H. C, Northampton, Mass 6.00 , 

Seelye. H. H.,3aa Broadway, Paterson, N. J 5.00 

Sergeant, C. B., 971 Broad St,. Newark, N, J 5.0O- 

Sheldon, H. M.. Fort Ann, N. Y 5.00 

Simons, Mrs S. A,. 188 LJnwood Ave., Buffalo, N. Y 6.00 J 

Blade. A. M. B.. 16 Anden St., Providence, R. 1 3.50 

Smith, L. H.j Newton Centre, Mass B.OO 

Stevens, M U, 36 Dexter St.. Maiden, Mass 5.00 i 

Strickland, F. B.. Warren, Ma,as, 3.50 I 

Swaaey, H. a, aSMapleSt , Springdeld, Mass 5.00 I 

Taylor, C. C, Wmteri»rt. Me B.OO J 

Thayer, M. v., Holbrook, Mass. B.OO ] 

Thomson, Lucy, Belchertown, Mass , 5.00 I 

Tiemann, B. C, 137th St. and Riverside Ave., New York City 5.08 J 

Tyler. F. M.. 379 N. Broad St.. Elizabeth. N.J 10.00 J 

Waite, A. V., Mary Institute, St, Louia, Mo 6.00 1 

Wallace, J. M.. 2,430 Harney St.. Omaha. Neb 5.00 1 

Welles, M. C, 1,307 Rhode Island Ave., Washington. D. C B.OO 

Weston, Grace, Newton, Mass 5.00- 

White, G.G.,Northfleld Sem.,Northfleld, Mass B.OO J 

Williams, C. M., 182 High St,, Camden Town, London, Eng 5.00 ~ 

Williams, E. 8., 163 Delaware Ave, Buffalo, N. Y 6.00 

Williams, F. A., 16 AndenSt., Providence, R. 1 3. BO I 

Wilson, N. F., Walnut Ave,, Natick, Mass B.OO 

Total 1469.41 



YASSAB COLLEO-E. 

Faculty, 
O'Grady, Prof. M. J. Whitney, Prof. M. W. 

Undergraduates, 

Banfield, Edith Martin, L. C. L. 

Freudenthal, Rose Moorehead, Helen . 

Hartridge, Emelyn Packard, Mary S. 

Ickler, L. M. Bobbins, A. M. 

James, Lina B. Steams, Edith. 

College Subscription $52.50 

Alumnoe and other former Students. 

Allen, M. T., Bed Bank, N. J $5.00 

Armstrong, Mrs. Sarah Sheppard, Penn Yan, N. Y 5.00 

Backus, Mrs. Helen H., 57 Livingston St., Brooklyn, N. Y 5.00 

Barr, L. M., New Ipswich, N. H 5. 00 

Barus, Mrs. Carl, 1409 Thirtieth St , Washington, D. C 5 00 

Brace, M. P., 142 E. 40th St., New York City 5.00 

Brown, H. D., 42 E. 11th St. , New York aty 5.00 

Carbutt, May, 2107 Venango St., Philadelphia, Pa 5.00 

Chandler, M. M., 510 Hibbard Ave., Hyde Park. Chicago, 111 5.00 

"Clark, Mrs. John B., 23 Bound Hill, Northampton, Mass 5.00 

Crowell, Mrs. H. P., 134 Pine St., Chicago, 111 5.00 

Cushing, F. M., 8 Walnut St.. Boston, Mass 10.00 

Darling. Grace, 80 Walnut St., Brookline, Mass 5 . 00 

Davis, Lucy, 576 Lexington Ave. , New York City 5 . 00 

Foster, A. W., Hotel Euot, Roxbury, Mass 5.00 

Goodsell, A. F. , San Diego, California 5 . 00 

Hamilton, Nannie S. , Covington, Ky 5 00 

Hart, Emma, Albion, N. Y ... . , » 5. 00 

Hazard, Bertha, 18 Centre St., Roxbury, Mass 5 . 00 

Hodges, Mrs. James, 1203 Madison St., Toledo, Ohio 5. 00 

HolUster, Mrs. S. H.. East Bloomfield, N. Y 5.00 

Houston, Henrietta, Ridgewood, N. J. 5. 00 

Houghton, E. G , 191 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass 5.00 

Jackson, Mrs. W. S. , Colorado Springs, Col 5 . GO 

Jordan, M. A., Smith College, Northampton, Mass 5.00 

Laurence, L. A., 11 West 46th St., New York, N. Y 5.00 

Lewis, S. B. D. , Cypress St. . Brookline, Mass 5 . 00 

Lloyd, C. A., Belleville, N. J 5.00 

Meeker, A. L. , 44 Linden St. , Brooklyn, N. Y 5 . 00 

Morris, E. E. , 230 Prospect St. , New Haven, Conn 5 . 00 

Parmly, Mrs. D. D. , North Adams, Mass 10. 00 

Petersen, K. 0., 278 Rverson St., Brooklyn, N. Y 2.50 

Pierson, M. H., 13 Hillyer St., Orange, N. J 5.00 

Prudden, L. E., 372 Orange St., New Haven, Conn 5.00 

Sanford, M. R , 100 First St , Troy, N. Y 5 00 

Sherwood, Margaret P., Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass 5.00 

Smith, Mrs. E. F., Bloomsburg. Pa 5.00 

Smith, Katharine, 584 Second Ave. , Detroit, Mich 5 . 00 

26 



Stevens, L. M., 81 Jefferson Ave., Columbus, Ohio fS.OO 

Strong, Katharine, 66 Clinton St., Rochester, N. T 9. 60 

Thompson, H. E., for Bumham School, Northampton, Mass 6.00 

Thompson, Mrs. Mary Thaw, 81 Lincoln Ave., Allegheny, Pa 26.00 

Tompidns, J. W., San Leandro, Cal 6.00 

Trask, Mrs. G. a, 187 W. 49th St., New York City 6.00 

*VanEtten. M. E 6.00 

Waldron, Dr. M. M. . Hampton Institute, Hampton, Va 10 . 00 

Wheeler, Laura, 15 E. 46th St., New York City 5.00 

White, C. S., 45 Trumbull St.. New Haven, Conn 6.00 

Whiteman, Mrs. J. H., Port Angeles, Washington 5.00 

Whitney, Dr. A.' S., 124 Dartmouth St., Boston, Mass 6.00 

Whitney, Prof. M. W., Vassar College. Poughkeepsie, N. Y 6.00 

Wood, Ida, 2038 Spring Garden St. . Philadelphia, Pa 5 . 00 

Wylie, L. J., Packer Institute, Brooklyn, N. i 15.00 

*Ypst, J. A 6.00 

Total $810.00 



'^7 



BBTN MAWB COLLEQE. 



Dr. JamML Tbomia^ M. Quej. 

Owinii, Mary. 



UndergradmaU^ 

^naerj. Hub Mmoo, Mary. 

Emery, A. C, Putnam, Mias Walker. Sosan. 

JackKm, J. Taylor, Gertmde. 

Ck>llege Subscriptum |46.00. 



AlumruB and other former Students, 

Aibro, Alice, with two othere, Fredonia, N. T ^.00 

Annan, H. C., care Drexel, Harjes & Ck>., Paris 5.00 

Atkins, Emma, 066 N. Meridian St., Indianapolis, Ind. 2.50 

Atkins. Fanny, 666 N. Meridian St., Indianapolis, Ind 2.50 

Balch, Emily, Prince St., Jamaica Plain, Mass 10.00 

Dadley, H. S., Packer Institute, Brooklyn, N. T 8.00 

Harris. Miss 2.00 

Laurence, Caroline, Saratoga, New York 5.00 

Mcintosh, Marion, with four others, 2821 De Lancey Place, Phila. ... 5.00 

Parrish, Ethel. Radnor, Penn 5.00 

Patterson, Mary, 1,700 Welton St., Denver, Col 5.00 

Patterson, Maud, 1,700 Welton St., Denver, Col 5.00 

Bampson, Edith, Church Lane, Oermantown, Pa 5.00 

■Sampson. Lilian, Church Lane, Qermantown, Pa 5.00 

■Shipley, Katharine, c/o Drexel, Har jes & Co. , Paris 5 . 00 

Thomas, Helen, 1228 Madison Ave., Baltimore, Md 2.50 

Thomas, Margaret, 1228 Madison Ave. , Baltimore. Md 2 . 50 

Whitall, Margaret. 9 E. Penn St. . Gtermantown, Pa 6 . 00 

Willets. K. T.. 58 Park Ave.. New York, N. Y 6.00 

Wright, Marion, Qermantown, Pa ... 5.00 

Total $89 . 00 



28 



THE ANNEX 



Undergradua tea. 

Bigelow, Elenor Hopkinson, Christina 

DiBon, Gertrude Scnpture, Bertha 

Eliot, Ada Seara, A, L. 

Gteorge, J. H. Stone, E. A. 

Hale, Alice Witte, Beatrice B. 

Hallowell, L. P. Yerxa, Sarah 



0.00 



Alvmnm and other former Students. 

Blake, J. M.. Belmont. Maes $5.00 

Bliss, M. E., 11 Marlborough St., Boston, MaES 6.00 

Bushed, L. A., 160 East 45th St., New York City 6.00 

Canfield, A. L.. Mies Porter's School, Farmington, Coim 6.00 

Coea, Mary, 10 Gardner St., Cambridge, Mass 5.00 

Hopkinson. Leslie W., 82 Craigie St., Cambridge, Masa 5.00 

Jones, Mabel. Howard St., Cambridge, Mass 6.00 

Lord. F. A., Kennebunk, Maine 6.00 

Lyman, Ella, 39 Beacon St., Boeton, Mass 6. CO 

Mottr-Smith, Ida, 101 Newbury St., Boston, Maaa 5.00 

Noyes, Marion, Colorado Springs, Colorado 6.00 

RichaTHon, Mrs. S, H., IHO Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass 6.00 

Tyler, G. E., WincheEter, Mass ..... 5.00 

Total 165.01 



MEMBERS FROM OTHER COLLEaES. 



A, — ^Amherst Col. — Columbia 

Bar, — Barnard M, — Michigan 

B, — ^Boston University N, W, — Northwestern University 

Call. — University of California T, — Mass. Institute of Technology. 

C— CorneU PT.— Wells 



Barrell. C. C, 5. , 342 Broadway, Cambridge, Mass $5.00 

Bliss, Rev. H. S., A,, 6 Middagh St., Brooklyn, N. Y 5.00 

Brown, Dr., 1212 Sutter St., San Francisco, Cal 5.00 

Campbell, M. M., Cal., 1262 Webster St., Oakland, Cal 5.00 

Channing, Eva, 5., Jamaica Plain, Mass 5.00 

Corser, M. E., C., 1819 Vine Place, Minneapolis, Minn 5.00 

Dame, L. M., £., Lynn, Mass 5.00 

Gage, K. A.. 5.. New Paltz, Ulster Co., N. Y 10.00 

Grant, Edith, C. , c/o Lawrence & Walner, Equitable Bldg., N. Y. . . 5 00 

Hamilton, Henry D., Col., 261 Broadway, New York City 5.00 

Harlow, Gertrude, C, c/o Miss Edith Grant. 5.00 

Humphries, Mrs. J. V., C, 413 S. Ninth St., Philadelphia, Pa 5.00 

Johnson, H. P. , C;, Sage College, Ithaca, N. Y 6.00 

Jones. C. R., Bar,, Hornellsville, N. Y 5.00 

Loomis, J. E., TF., Attica, New York .5.00 

Lougee, M. W., C, West Roxbury, Mass 5.00 

Macomber, Mrs. I. J., C. 18 Lynn St., Ithaca, N. Y 5.00 

Markx, Stephanie, C, Ogontz, Montgomery Co., Pa 5.00 

Munger, Mrs. J. L.,\B., 5412 Washington Ave., Chicago, 111 5.00 

Palmer, Mrs. G. H., M,, 3 Mason St. , Cambridge, Mass 5.00 

Peart, A. M.. N, W., Brainwood. Ill 5.00 

Putnam, Ruth, C, 40 W. Fifty-ninth St., New York, N. Y 5.00 

Robbins, M. L., C, Sage College, Ithaca, N. Y. 5 . 00 

Smith, Mrs. Albert, C, Madison, Wis 5.00 

Talbot, Marion, B., 66 Marlborough St.,- Boston, Mass 5.00 

Tetlow, Mrs. John, B., Cedar St., Roxbury. Mass 5.00 

Wetherell, J. J., C, 3435 Lancaster Ave., Philadelphia, Pa 5.00 

Willard, J. E., C., Watertown, N. Y 5.00 

Williams, Alice, M, 106 E. Thirty-eighth Street, New York, N. Y. . 5.00 

Woodward, L. J., T., 29 Copeland Street, Roxbury, Mass 5,00 

Total $155 .00 



30 



Non-Collegiate Members of the Association. 



Abbott, Mre. Edward, 11 Dana St., Cambridge, Mass t5.09i1 

Adams, C. H., 333 Broadway, Paterson, N. J... 5.00? 

Adams, Mrs. E. P., 15 Oxford St., Cambridge, Masa 6.00 ] 

AUen, E. 3., 509 Beacon St., Boston, Mass B.OO 1 

Arnold, E. M.. 244 Main St., Owego, N. Y 10.00 I 

Barrett. A. M., 15 Coulter St., Germantown, Pa 6.00'] 

Hartley. S. D., for King's Daughters, 18 Acorn St., Walden Mass. . . 6.00 ] 

Beokwith, B. K., Normal College, New York. N. T 5.00 ] 

Bigelow, M. A.,HotelBruuawick, Boaton. Masa 5.00 

BUlinga, Mrs. Julia, 379 Madison Are,, New York, N. Y 5.00 

Billings, Elizabeth, BIB Madison Ave., New York. N. T 5.00 

Bialand, Margaret, 475 Fourth Ave , New York, N. Y 6.00 

Blair, Ura.D. C, The Burlington, 10 W. 80th St., New York, N. T.. 5.00 

Blake, Mrs. A. W., Brookline, Masa 5.00 

Blanchard, Mra, B. S., Davis Ave., Brookline, Mass 5.00 

Bliss. Mrs. H.S.,eMiddagh St.. Brooklyn, N. Y 5.0O i 

Blood, Mrs. F. L., Qroton. MasH 5.00 , 

Bradahaw. Mrs. M. A., Kendall Greea, Washington, D. C 6.00 

Brooks. M. E-p care of Mra. French, HoUey, N. Y. 5.00 ' 

Brooks. M. H.. 39 Worcester St., Boston. Mass 6.00 i 

Brooks, Mrs. Shepherd, 93 Beacon St., Boston, Mass 6.00 

Brown. Mrs. J, C. 3t( East 37th St.. New York, N. T 5.0O 

BtowD, M, M., 3a EastaTthSt., New York, N. Y. , ... 6.00 

Boahnell. Annie, 737 Genesee St , Cleveland, Ohio 5.00 '- 

Butler. A. M.. Dana Hall, Wellesley, Mass 5.00 j 

Byrd, M. E., 84 Elm St., Northampton, Maas 5.00 

CaU, A. P., Itf Arlington St., Boston. Maaa 5.00 * 

Capron. C. D-, 41 Willard St., Hartford, Conn 6.00 i 

Carpenter, Agnes, 54 East 67th St.. New York. N.Y 6.00 ' 

Carpenter. Mra. O. O., Ruijsell Ave . Compton Hill, St. Louis, Mo. . . . 5.00 i 

Chfuining. Mrs. Walter, Chestnut Hill Ave., Brookline, Mass 6.00 J 

Chase, E. L., TlPickney St . Boston Mass 5.00 i 

Olemena. Mra. S. L., Fannington Ave., Hartford, Conn 6.00 

Coale, Mrs. 8. C. G.. Sedgwick St., Jamaica Plain, Mass , 6.00 

Cone, HelenGray. 846 East 148th St., New Y^ork, N. Y 5.00 ' 

Cook, Mra. Joseph. 2H Beacon St. , Boston, Masa ( 

Cook, May, Walnut St., Oak Park, 111 

Coolidge, .Mrs. David, 114 Commonwealth Ave.. Boston. Mass 6 00 j 

Coolidge, Isa, 114 Commonwealth Ave, Boston, Mass 5.00 

Crafte, M. E,. 304 Berkley St., Boston, Mass 5.0O 

Cnshman, H. F., Monsou. Mass B.OO 

Dana,E E.. 10.1 South St., Morristown, N. J 5.00 

Denny. E. G., Wuhiut St , Brookline, Masa 6.00 

Don^ty. Edna, 214 Lefferts Place, Brooklyn. N. Y 5.00 

Dtttton, Mr E. P.. 34 West 51st St., New York. N. Y 10.00 

Sntton, Mra. Horace, Auburndale, Mass 5.00 I 

thitton, Mrs, Julia, 34 West 5lBt St., New York, N.Y 10,00 i 

Dntton, Dr. J, M., S50 Newburv St., Boston, Mass 10.00 1 

Datton, M, S., Auburndale, Maas 6.00 I 

Diright, Mrs. Edmund, 50 State St., Boston. Maaa. 5.00 

Edwards. Mrs. O. E., Northampton. Mass. 2.00 

Eggers, Frail. Marie, Baumstrosae, 13, Hanover, Germany 5.00 

Emmraton, Mrs. G, K., 328 Esaex St. Salem, Mass 5 00 

&idicott, Clara, 33 Beacon St., Boston, Mass 5.00 

Kndicott, Mra. William, 165 Beacon St., Boston, Mass 5.00 

Farwell, Dr. Gertrude A., HoUey, Orleans Co., New York 5.00 



Fields, Mrs. Annie, U8 Charles St., Boston, MasB.. $5.00 

Freeman, H. E., 37 Union Park, Boston, Uass 5.00 

French, Ida, Eocheater, N. Y 5.00 

French, L. C, Rochester, N.Y S.OO 

French, Mra. M. E. W , HoUej, Orleans Co., New York 5.00 

Friend, through V. D. 8 10.00 

Oilman, Mr. N. F 5.00 

Ginn. Mrs. Edwin, Wineheeter, Maaa 6.00 

Oirdmood, Jeeeie, 4 DunreathSL, Roxbury, Maee S.OO 

Gleaaon, Dr. A. A.. WaterCure, Elmira, N. Y 5.00 

Goodrich. Mr. Henry. 59 WaU St., New York.N, Y 5.00 

Greeley. A. M., Russell Ave., Compton ffiU. St. Lonis, Mo 5.00 

Hall, J.L 6.00 

EalloweU, L, M.. West Medford, Mass 5.00 

Hammond, Mrs. G. W.. 200 Clarendon St., Boston, Maes 5.00 

Hardy, busan, SO ChMtnut St., Boston, Mass 6.00 

Hesse, F. C. Hatfield House, Northampton, Mass 5.0O 

Hodgkins, L. M., Wilbraham. Mass 5.00 

Hoe, Laura, 111 B.]Bth St., New York. N.Y 5.00 

Houghton. E. N., 800 Main St., Cambridge, Mass.... 6.00 

Howe. Mary, 444 Chestnut St., Chicago, 111 S.OO 

Howland, Mrs. Joseph. 97 Rhode Island Ave., Newport, E. I ,,. 6.00 

Hutchins, E. G., 35 High St., Medford. Mass 5.00 

Hutchinson, Florence, Burlington, Vt 5.00 

Jackson, Mrs. C. C, 181 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Maaa 5.00 

Jay, Mr. John, Katonah, N. Y 10.00 

Jewett, S. O.. 148 Charles St.. Boston, Mass 6.00 

Joalin. A. L., 517 Beacon St., Boston, Mass 5.00 

Kane, Misses, 28 We6t47th St., New York, N.Y 10.00 

Kehew, Mrs. W. B., 817 Beacon St,, Boston, Mass 5.00 

Eilham. Mrs. L. A., 248 Commonwealth Are., Boston, Mass. SO. 00 

Kimball, Mrs. C. B 25.00 

Kimball, H. P,. 8S6 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass 5.00 

Kimball. Mr. M. D., 335 CommonweahJi Ave,, Boston, Mass 6.00 

Kimball, Mrs. M. D., 3S5 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Maes 6.00 

Kimltall, 8. D., 835 Commonwealth Ave.. Boston, Maas 5.00 

Ladd Mrs. K. M.. 1S5 W. 58th St., New York, N.Y 5.00 

Leavitt, M. A., 317 Harvard St., Cambridgeport, Mass 5.00 

Lincoln, Mrs. Albert, Cypress Place, Brookline, Mass , 5.00 

Lincoln. Mrs, 9., 53 State St.. Boston. Mass 5.00 

Lincoln, Miss, 58 State St., Boston. Mass 6.00 

Lord, Mrs. E. G., /or/riend, 184FalmouthSt., Boston, Mass 5.00 

Lord, L M.,64E. 54th St.. New York. N. Y 5.00 

Low, Mrs. Seth, 30 E. 64th St.. New York. N. Y 5.00 

Lyman, Julia. 89 Beacon St.. Boston, Mass 5.00 

Mason, Ellen. 1 Walnut St., Boston. Mass 5.0O 

Mason, Ida, 1 Walnut St., Boston. Mass 5.00 

Mead, Mrs. C. L., 60 E. 79th St., New York, N.Y 10.00 

Means, Mrs. James, 196 Beacon St., Boston, Mass 6.00 

Meniam. Celia. Springfield, Mass 5.0O 

MUler. E. H.,319 W. 116th St., New York, N.Y 5.00 

Mills, L. A., Montclair, N. J 5.00 

Milter, M. C, S41 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass 5.00 

Monks, Mrs. J. B., 8-14 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass 6.00 

Morgan, E. M,. 108 FarminKt^jn Ave.. Hartford, Conn 5.00 

Morris, Mr. J. B., Sangatuck, Conn 6.00 

Munger, R. M.. 203 Prospect St., New Haven, Conn 5.00 

Needham, S. J. C, Hotel Eliot, Eoxbury, Mass 5.00 

NicoU, Carlotta, 119 W. 48th St., New York, N, Y 6.00 

01m stead, Mrs. F. L., Brookline, Maes 5 00 

Pfthner, E. G., Boxford, Mass. 5.00 

Penfleld, E. C.,804 Seminary St., Eockford, 111 5.00 



Pray, Mrs. c'.'h., Montclair.'N. J '. 

PriWhard, E. M., 250 Church St., New HaTen. Conn. 



, D. A., Torrington, Cona 

Sciidder, Eliza. IBl Newbury St.. Boeton, Mass 

Scadder. Mm. H. L., 350 Newbury St.. Boston, Maes . . 
ScQdder. Mrs. R. M.. ISO Marlboro' Street. Boston, Mass. 
Swlve- - - - 




Bpencer. Mrs. Lorillard, Newport, R. I. 

Spring, Helen. Springfield. MaBS 

otevaim, A. B., 37 West Cedar St., Boston, Maes 

Stevens, Mrs. M. E. T., BiHhop.Cal 

Stookwell, F. T.,301 West 54tli St., New York, N, Y 

Talbot, Mrs. EmUy, M Marlboroueh Street, Boston, Mass 

Thayer, B.C.. 11 West Si;.. Miltord. Mass 

Thwne, S. L., c/o Rev. C. H. DickinBon, Wallingford, Conn 

Tower, E. M., Lexington, Mass 

Trndale, Mra. T. W., High St , Brookline, Maaa 

Vsn Houten, Mrs. D. B. .Hotel ■Winthrop, ISSth St. & 7th Ato. , N.Y. 

Tan Benssalaer, L. de L., 64 Bayard St., New Brunswick, N. J 

Wwner, Mrs, Wm., 47 WilUam St., New York, N. Y. 

Waiea, M, A., 19 Brimmer St., Boston, Mass 

Warner, Mrs. Lewis, Pomeroy Terrace, Northampton, Mass 

Warren, Cornelia 67 Mt. Vernon St., Boijton, Maes 

Wauhbum, Mrs. Ichabod, Worcester, Mass 

Wheelwright, Mrs. A, C , Warren Street, Brookline, Maee 

White. Mrs. ■!. 8. , Boyleston St. . Brookline, Mass 

Whitney, Elinor, Boylaton St., Brookline, Mass 

Whitney, Laura, " " 

' Whitney, Mrs. M. F. G., " " 

Whitney, Euth. ' ■ ■ ' 

' Whitwell , M. H , 98 Chestnut St.. Boston, Mass 

Willete.Mra. M. H. M., 7 West 53d St., New York, N. Y 

I Williams. Dora, Walnut St., Brookline, Mass 

! Williams. H. J., Adams St., Somerville, Mass 

Wilmarth, Mrs. M. R., Jaroaica Plain, Mass 

"Wilson. Louise, 11 West 134th Street, New York, N. Y 

■Window. Mrs. E. 8., 27 West 6Bd St., New York. N. Y 

Wolcott, Mrs. H. L. T,, Dedham, Maes 

"Woods, Lucy, 8. 8. Class at Trinity Church, Boston, Meee 

"Wolcott, Mrs. Roger, 178 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass 

"Woodin, M. E., Second St., Pittsfield, Maes 

Wrieht, Mrs. L. E., Amherst. Mass 

Toang, Fanny, 71 Mt, Vemon St., Boston, Mass 



s.oo 1 

5.00 ] 
6.00 ] 
5.00 
6.00 
5.00 
S.OO I 
6.00 
5.00 , 
5.00 
6.00 1 
B.OO I 
6.00 J 
6.00 
6.00 
5.0» .1 
6.00- 1 
S.OO I 



5.0O 
5.00 , 

5.00 ; 

6.0O 1 



Total $965.00 ■ 



DONATIONS (1890-1.) 



Billings, Mrs. Julia, 279 Madison Ave. . N. Y $70 00 

Brown, Mrs. a V. V 1.00 

Clarke. E. W., Norwich. Vt 2.00 

Connelr. Bertha L.. Park Statkni. L. V. R. R. Philadelphia, Pa 1.00 

Cook. May, Walnut St.. Oak Park. HI 5.00 

Elmendorf , Dr. J.. 61 K 123 St., New York, N. Y 5.00 

Emerson. Mrs. Ralph. Rockford, 111 15,00 

Evelyn College, Princeton, N. J 27.00 

Faber, M. R. 348 Lexington Ave. New York, N.Y 5.00 

Fay. Lillian W.. 100 Grand St.. Newburgh, N. Y 5.00 

Fisk. Nina P., Northampton. Mass 10 00 

Freeman. Kate B., 1650 Sherman Ave.. Denver, Col 20.00 

French, Mrs. M. E. W., HoUey, Orleans Co.. N. Y 10.00 

Friend, (Christmas) . . 1 .00 

Friend 1.00 

Friends 62.95 

Friend (through B. H.) 5.00 

Friend 10.00 

Frieml (through H. C. R.) 10.00 

Friend, f<rr Hummer, (through J. G. F.) 10.00 

Friends (through M. B. V\hiton) 11.00 

Friend (througn Miss Johnson) 5.00 

Friend (through H C. R.) : 1.00 

Fuller, Julia, 117 E. 35th St., New York, N. Y 35.00 

(Gardiner, Prof.. Lecture at Smith College 24.06 

^ifford, Alice, Orange. N. J 50 

iHeason, Kate, Brown's Race. Rochester. N. Y 2. 00 

< Jorham, Mrs. Wm. H., 108 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass 2.00 

aortou, Mrs. D. M., Sherburne, N. Y 15.15 

( Quests at Lake Mohouk House 39 . 00 

Hamilton, Mr. I. K., 3230 Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111, 5.00 

Hamilton, Wm. Gaston, 105 E. 2l8t St.. N. Y 25.00 

HaycH, Alice, 6 Acacia St.. Cambridge, Mass 1 .00 

Hidden, Flora E. , Cambridge, Mass 1 .00 

Johnson, L. F. (through) Montclair, N. J 21.00 

Jones, Mrs. M. L. B. , 809 Suede St. Norrlstown, Pa 5.00 

Kimball, H. P., 325 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass 15.00 

King's Daughters 3.00 

Smith College, Class of '92 15.12 

•* *• " ** (through Miss Lyman) 39.15 

Laughlin, Mrs. H. M., 95 Rivington St., New York, N. Y 300.00 

Lawrence, E C. , Newton Centre, Mass 100. 00 

Lloyd, Mrs. Anna B. , Montclair, N. J 5 . 00 

Marling, Mr. A. E, 64 Cedar St., New York, N. Y ... 10.00 

Moffett, Mrs. C. Todd, 216 Green St., Syracuse, N. Y 1 .00 

O'Hara, Alys, 45 W. 47th St., New York, N. Y 3.00 

Our Friendly Club (through Miss Rice), Milwaukee, Wis 9.30 

Patten, Mr. Frank, State Library, Albany, N. Y 5.00 

Putnam, Ruth, 40 W. 59th St., New York City 1 .00 

Rand, Mr. Addison, (for "household drudgery") 50.00 

Richardson, Mary 1 . 00 

Rollins, Mrs. A. W., 170 W. 59th St , New York, N. Y 5.00 

RoUins, Mr. Phillip. 17 E. 41st St., New York, N. Y 50.00 

Sachs, Mrs. Julius, 149 W. 81st St., New York, N. Y 3. 00 



84 



Sale of Books $8.50 

Schiff. Mr., 932 Fifth Ave , New York City 100.00 

Schiflf, Frieda, 982 Fifth Ave., '* 5.00 

School girls, (through Miss Fine) 1 , 698 . 27 

Scudder, Mrs. H. L., 250 Newbury St., Boston, Mass 10.00 

Slade, Mabel, 158 Harrison St., Brick Church, N. J 40.00 

Squires, Emma 6.00 

Sullivan, Florence E., 40 E. 57th St., New York, N. Y 80.00 

Sweet, Mrs. S. C, 128 Gates Ave. , Montclair, N. J 100.00 

Thompson. Mrs. J. P., 49 E. 31st St., New York, N. Y 2 00 

Ticknor, A. E., 41 Marlborough St.. New York, N. Y 20.00 

"Warren, Cornelia, 67 Mount Vernon St., Boston, Mass 460.00 

WeUesley for Christmaa 1.00 

Whitmore, Mcui^ha, 9 E. Penn St., Germantown, Pa 10.00 

"Williston, Elizabeth, Northampton, Mass 32.00 

Wing, M. R., Wellesley, Mass 5.50 

Total $3,596.50 



35 



SIJMMART. 



CcSlege Sabecnftioa I297.50 

AlmniuB.: 455.00 

$732.50 

Smith Ccdl^^e Subscription 149.68 

AlnmniB 469.41 

619.09 

Vasbab College Snbscriptioii , 52.50 

AlomnaB 810.00 

862.50 

Beth Mawb . . .Ck>llege Subscription 46.00 

AlnmniP 89.00 

135.00 

The Annex Ck>llege Subscription 60.00 

AluninsB 65.00 

125.00 

OtherColleges 155.00 

Non-Collegiate Members 955 00 

Donations 8,696.50 



$6,680.59 
Deducted (names counted twice) 55.00 



Total (Membership Fees and Donations, '90-'91) $6,625 . 59 



86 



In addition to the money above aeknowledgled, many gifts of 
value have been made to the Settlement during the past year. The 
beaatiful " Brighthurst window" ie a source of pleasure to every 
one who comes to the house. Books and magazines for the library, 
flowers for distribution, clothing to be used by the resident physi- 
cian, pictures, and many other articles of great use in the work have 
been given. In many cases money has been donated for special 
purposes — for Christmas entertainments, for cinb materials and 
work, for house-furnishings, for service which might lighten the 
housework of the residents, for the beginning of a Residents' 
Library, etc. 

Money has also been contributed by friends to individual resi- 
dents for use in their private work. This money has been most 
useful in meeting cases of emergency. 

All the eipenses of the sumnier honse at Katonah were paid by 
gifts of friends of the Settlement living in New York. Many pic- 
nics have been given, and clubs have been entertained by Iriends, 
and the children have greatly enjoyed their single holidays. 

There has beeii a large increase during the year in the amount of 
special aid thus received, and in the personal assistance given by 
non-residents of the Settlement. It is encouraging to feel that this 
generous response to the gieoln- netds ol the timV ^l^v^ 
growing interest among its friends who live in or near New York 
City. 

It will be observed that the income from the Board of Residents 
and Visitors is this year about tilO.OO larger than during the first 
year. In consequence of this increas^e in the average size of the lam- 
ily, the house has been fully self supporting, exclusive of the rent. 
Indeed, the house account as given this year includes many small 
expenses, made necessary by the club work, which were last year 
counted among the " general expenses." The money received from 
the public baths stands at $228.7'? against $69.65 of last year, 

Tlie large item of $1,700,00 for " rent and alterations for bath- 
rooms," refers to a much-needed enlargement of the work. The 
plana are fully made, and the money for carrying them out has 
been given for the most part by New York friends. Action has 
been temporarily delayed by circumstances over which the Com- 
mittee has no control. It is hoped that the 'plans may be carried 



oiil Id the near future, but In tbe meantime, though" 

now deposited in the bank, it is already appropriated to a specific 

use, and cannot be fairly counted as surplus now on hand. 

Great care has been taken to make the lists and addresses of 
members and donors as accarate as posi^ible. It is feared, however, 
that some inaccuracies still remain, and it is hoped that correctioof;^ ■ 
of these may be sent at once to tbe Treasurer. 



Berth A Hazard, 



B Cbhtbb St., Roxbdry, Mass. 
S^. J, IBOl, 



r 

I fol 



Membership fees for the year 1891-93 have been received from the 
following: 

Collegiate Members. 

BaU, Mrs. H. E., 1,343 Weatem Ave. Topeka, Kan $5.00 

Barstow, Mrs. F. Q., 85 Prospect St., Eaat Orange, N. J 5.00 

Cone, K, M., Hartford, Vt B.OO 

Coleman, Mr. J. C. Room 113. lOWaUSt., New York City 5.00 

Coma, S. A.. B4 E. Main St.. Maaaillon, 0.00 

Ely, Prof. A. M., Vassar College, Foughkeepsie, N. Y,... 5.00 

Emory, C. J 0.00 

Freeman, K. B., 1,650 Sherman Ave., Denver, Col 5.00 

Gage, K. A., New Pal tz, Ulster County, N. T 5.00 

Howe, Rose D., Woman's Med. College, Philadelphia, Penn 5.00 

Johnson, M. A., 105 Croton Ave , Sine Sing, N. Y 6.00 

Kenyon, F. E,, 13 W, 7th St.,Plainfield, N. J S.OO 

Parry, Eleanor, 147 E. 30th St., New York City 0.00 

Piersoa, M. H,, 13 HillyerSt., Orange, N. J 0.00. 

Spencer, C. F., Harcourt Place, Gambler, O 

Strong, C. B,, 333 Morristown St., Portland, Ore 

Williamson, C. L., 8,230 Michigan Ave.. Chicago, 111 



Total.. 



Vassar College |I48 . 50 

Bryn Mawr College 70 .00 

Welb CoUege 100.00 



J 



Noti-Collegiate Members, 



^^^ 



_.. Bt, Swaupscott, Mass 

Barney, Mr. Newton, Fannington, Conn 

Barney, Mrs. Newton, Farmington, Conn 

Bolles, Mrs. M. F. , 56 E. 54th St. , New York, N. Y 

Braley, Elizabeth, 619 County St., New Bedford, Mass , 

Brooks, M. H., 38 Worcester St., Boston, Masa 

Chandler. Mrs. A. D., 18 Highland Terrace, Orange, N. J. . . 

Clarke, Kate, 08 Mmst.. Newport, R. I 5.00 

Douglass. Mrs. Benj., Lie weUyn Park. Orange, N. J 5.00 

Dunham, Mary, 19 Prospect St., Hartford. Conn S.OO 

Dunham, Sarah, 19 ProBpect St., Hartford, Conn 5.00 

Button, Mrs. Horace, Auburndale, Mass 5.00 

EdgeJi, Mrs. E, S., 41 B. 88th St., New York, N. Y.,... 5.00 

French, Mrs. M. E. W., Holley. Orleans Co., N. Y 5.00 

Goldthwait, Mr. Joel 5.00 

Qoldthwait, Mrs. Joel 

Henry, Esther, 5 Haynea St., Hartford, Conn 

Hoe. Laura, 111 E. I6th St., New York, N. T 

Howell. Mrs. T.D.. The Dakota, W. 72ii St., New York, N. Y. 

Huntington, Mrs. C. W,, 2 Nesmith St., Lowell, Mass 

Jackson, Mrs. Joh H.. WUmington, Del 

Jackson, M. M., Wilmington, Del 

Johnson, Maude, Maneion House, Milford, Mass 

Kane, Misses. 23 West 47th St„ New York, N. Y 

Kelsey, Mr. C. H., 31 Clinton St., East Orange, N. J 

Kelaey, Mrs. C, H.,21 Clinton St., East Orange, N, J 

Knox, Mary, 88 Washington 8q., New York, N, Y 

Lathrop, J. C. Eockford, lU 5.00 

Life. Mrs. J.,Eye,N. Y S.OO 



5.00 
5.0O 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 



. 10.00 



6.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
5.00 
10. OO 
5.00 
6.00 
5.00 



5.00 
S.OO 
5.00 

5.00 
5.00 



Lord, Mrs. F. B., Lawrence, L. I. . 

Mason, Minna, The Washington, 29 Washington Sq., N. Y.. , 

Mills. M. B., Andover, Maea 

Morris, Mrs. E., Hartford, Vt 

Naeon, T, P.. 5TJnionSt., New Brunswick, N. J 

Pierson.Dr, Wm., 18 Hillyer St., Orange, N, J o.w 

Band, Mrs. E. G., 720 Broad St., Providenca. E. 1 10.00 

Randolph. Mabel, 180 W. 59th St., New York, N.Y 5.00 

Root. I*uiaa,19 Prospect St., Hartford. Conn 5.00 

Smiley, Mrs. A. K.. Lake Mohonk, Ulster Co.. N.Y... S.OO 

Smith, H. F., Aurora, N.Y 5.00 

Smith. Mrs. OUver, Fort Washington, New York City 5.00 

Stephens. A. B.. 10 West 30th St., Belvidere, N. J 6.00 

Stephens, S. B., 10 " " ■' " 5.00 

Stevens, A. B., 37 W. Cedar St., Boston, Mass 6.00 

Stone. Augusta, Llewellyn Park, Orange. N. J 6.00 

Wheeler, Mr. E. P., 45 William St.. N. Y 10.00 

Williams. Mrs. G. G., 38 Prospect St., Hartford, Conn 5.00 

Wolcott, Mrs. Roger, 173 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Maas 5.00 

Wright, Mrs. Lomsa, Amherst, Mass. 5.00 

Total $366.00 



Total membership fees already paid for 18B1-9 



All aubscriptions exoept those from nndergradnate members, 
sboald be seat direct to Misa Oertba Hazard, 18 Centre St., Roz- 
bury, Mass. 



Eh 



O 

<1 



00 o 



0000 '-^ WrHiH 



s 






QD 






d 



00* 




• • • • 



OQ Q 1-1 ao ao lO -^ 
^ 00 e* c<i 1-1 » t* 



OlOliH ,Hi-l 



00 



8 



»© 



S W'3i." 





i 
IS 

I 

d 

I 



I 



73 

s 






bo: 



1 

I 

I 



wlll^l^ii 



n 









9SS 

• • « 

00 iH Od 



o'od 
cool 



t3 



£| 

<D 

CO 

OP 

« 

a 

o 



bo 



QQ 

QQ 



o 

OP 
so 

o 
W 






PhO 



-s 



^ 



2 « 
|W 

c8 O 

'C CO 

ia 

2 1 



O <D 



o 



o 

00 



O) 






00 



8 

P4 



o 

<D 
M 

1—1 
Cd 

00 

l-H 

o 

CO 

rv, O 
p,QO 



O 
00 






o 



o 
f^2 



fH 1-H •fH !"• 






4i3 

02 



lOOO^ 

■ • • 

CO *-i CO 
TT CO 

CO 



a 

<D 4d 
CO G 

^ <3 &i 

CO 

a 
o 

• ^ CO o 
C« >^ g 



40 



CO 



to 

00 
30 



I 



I 



I 

QQ 



» 



s 



lO 



& 






00 



I 






s 



s 



ooeo 






GQ 




111 8 



^ 



S 



•% 

& 



G^ 

00 



n3 
o 



41 



CONSTITUTION. 



! of this organization shall be the College Settj.f.wei 



I, — The nan 
Association. 

II, — The object of thia Association shall be the support and control of 
CoUege SettlementB for Women. 

m. — Any person may become a member by paying an annual fee of five 
dollars, and will thereby be entitled to all the reports and pubhcations 



rV. — Every College which bos at leaat twenty repreBentatives in the 
membership ot the Association shall be entitled to two repreBentatives on 
its Electoral Board, one to be elected by members of the Association who 
are graduates and former students of said college, the other by niembers 
who are undei^raduates. The Electoral Board thus formed shBll add to 
its number one woman to act aa treaaurer and two women to represent the 
non-collegiate members o£ the Association. 

V. — The term of office on the Electoral Board sball be two years, half 
the members of the Board being elected each year. 

VI. — The officers of the Electoral Board shall consist of a President, 
Gleneral- Secretary, and Treasurer, who shall be elected at the annual 
spring meeting. 

V 11.— The Electoral Board shall hold an annual meeting during the 
spring months for the discussion of the interests of the Association and 
appointment of the Esecutive Committee, and an annual meeting during 
the autumn months for hearing the reports of the Executive Committees, 
The fmrther duties of the Electoral Board shall be to maintain and extend 
interest in the Settlements among the Colleges represented, and elsewhere, 
and to coUect the annual fees, handing them to the Treasurer appointed 
by the Electoral Board. 

VHI. — The financial year shall begin September lat. All subscriptionB 
for the ensuing Jyear shall be due during September and October, Fe«a 
of new members joining [the Association aftor April Ist, may COTer the 
dues for the year following. 

IS. — Special meetings of the Electoral Board may be held at the request 
of three members of the Board or of 'any Executive Committee, 

X. — Five members of the Electoral Board shall constitute a quorum for 
all purposes except the election of the Executive Committees. For this 



purpose, absent members most send in their votes, and a majority vote of 
the entire Board is necessary to eleven. 

XI.^-The Executive Committee for each Settlement shall consist of at 
least three elective members, and ex-offleio, the Head-Worker of the Settle- 
ment. The Committee shall add to its number one member. The majority 
of the Committee must be chosen from members of the Association resi- 
dent in the neighborhood of the Settlement. 

XII. — ^The officers of 'each Committee shall be a Chairman, a (General 
Secretary on Residents, a Secretary and a Treasurer. 

XEII. — The Executive Committees shall be responsible for the entire 
management of the Settlements, and shall control in whatsoever way 
seems to them best, the admission of residents and the administration of 
funds. They shall, when necessary, elect Head-Workers. They shall, 
through their General Secretary, draw up every year a report of the work, 
and submit this Report at the annual meeting of the Electoral Board. The 
Report, if accepted, shall be printed and sent to all members of the Asso- 
ciation. 

XIV.— The majority of the residents in a Settlement at any one time 
shall always be College women . 

XV. — ^This Constitution may be amended or .enlarged by a majority of 
the Electoral Board at any annual meeting. 



44 




It ehall be the object of this chapter to increaee among the under- | 
graduates of this college, membership in the general Association, and in J 
other ways to further the intereate of the Association, 



Secfion 1. Any undergraduate of Vaaaar College may become a member ; 
of this chapter by paying a yearly fee of five dollars 
constitution of 'the general Association, and by signing the constitution 
of the chapter. Members may belong in clubs. 

Sec. S. In case of club membership only one member of each club shall ^ 
be a roember of the general Association. 

See. 3. Only members of the general Association shall be entitled to A 
elect officers, 



Section 1. The officers of this chapter 
combining the duties of secretary and t 
Sec, 2. The electors shall be elected biennially as specified by the general 1 



AMoeiatioiL ThetecretarjaiidtreMiiferilimUbedectedattiieMiiietime. 

Sec Z. It fhall be the dotj of the Sector to represent the membefs of 
the e^iafier at the meetiiig of the Board of Electora, as verified in the 
eonatitiition of the general Anociation; to preside at all meetings of the 
chapter; to assist the treasurer in the collection of jeailj fees; and to do 
all in her power to promote the interest of the general AsBociatkxi. 

See, 4« It shall be the dutj of the secretary and treasurer to act as Tioe- 
elector; to record the proceedings of all meetings and to keep a p^ma- 
nent record of the same, and to make a jearlj report to the chapter; 
to hare charge of all money in the treasury, and to attend to the 
collection of membership fees and the payment of the same to the general 
Association. 



ARTICLE V. 

MEKTINQS. 

Section 1. There shall be biennial meetings for the election of officers. 

Sec, 2. There shall be annual meetings for the reading of reports. 

Sec. 3. A majority of the members of the chapter shall constitute a 
quorum, whose presence shall l>e necessary for the transaction of any 
business. A majority of the members present at any meeting shall be 
necessary to pass a vote. 

ARTICLE VI. 

EXPENSES. 

All money necessary to meet the expenses incurred by the chapter shall 
be raised by voluntary contributions. 

ARTICLE Vn. 

AMENDMENTS. 

The constitution shall be open to amendment at any time upon a major- 
ity vote of the members of the chapter. 



46 



CONSTITUTION 

OF THE 



Wellesley Chapter of the College SettFnts As'n, 



ARTICLE I. 



The name of the organization shall be the Wbllbslby Chaptbb of thb 
CoLLEOE Settlements Association. 



ARTICLE II. 
The Chapter shall hold three regular meetings a year, one each term. 

ARTICLE III. 

The Elector from Wellesley shall be the President of this Chapter. The 
other ofl3x3er3 shall be, a vice-president from the Faculty; a vice-president 
from each class, and from the special organization, the secretary of the 
Elector. These officers shall constitute the Executive Committee of the 
Chapter. 



ARTICLE IV. 

These officers, with the exception of the President, shall be elected at the 
first meeting of the college year. 

ARTICLE V. 

The duties of the officers shall be to further the interests of the College 
Settlements at Wellesley. 

ARTICLE VI. 

All those paying something toward the support of the Settlements, 
whether holding full membership in the Association or not, shall be en- 
titled to vote on all matters, except the appointment of the Elector. For 
this purpose, each five dollar fee entitles to one vote. 

47 



THIRD 



ANNUAL REPORT 



loIUge Settlements 
^ssociationt 

From September i, iSyi, to Sepieinber j, 1892. 



I AVIL paiSriNG AND LlTHOGRAl 
»*'• asm. JMS«nd»(7 MArtel 
189a. 



(Rmlltp S^tttlmtnt% ^%%tiimtm. 



ELECTORAL BOARD. 



F^esident, MRS. ADAUNB EMERSON THOMPSON, 

63 Chestnut St, East Orange, N. J. 

Secretary, MRS. FLORENCE YOST HUMPHRIES, 

Swarthmore, Pa. 

Treasurer, MISS CORNELIA WARRE'N, 

67 Mt. Vernon St., Boston, Mass. 



STANDING COMMITTEE. 

The PRSsroENT, Treasurer and Secretary, ex officio. 

MISS VIDA D. SCUDDER, 250 Newbury St., Boston, Mass. 

MISS IDA WOOD, 2038 Spring Garden St, Philadelphia, Pa. 



From 
WelUsley 
College. 



From 

Vassar 

CMege. 



From 

Smith 

College. 



From 

Bryn Maivr 

College. 



' Mrs. Adaline Emerson Thompson, W., '80 
63 Chestnut St., East Orange, N. J. 

Miss Vida D. Scudder, S., '84, 

250 Newbury St., Boston, Mass. 

Miss Ida Wood, V., '77, 
2038 Spring Garden St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Miss Mary Vida Clark, V., '92, 

Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 

Mrs. Helen Rand Thayer, S., '84, 

122 State St., Portsmouth, N. H. 

Miss Virginia Lyman, S., '93, 

Smith College, Northampton, Mass. 

Miss Helena S. Dudley, B. M., '89, 

617 St. Mary St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Miss Bertha Putnam, B. M., '93, 

Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa. 



}Term of 
office expires 
in»94. 
}Term of 
office expires 
in '93. 

\ Term of 

V office expires 
J in »94. 

\ Term of 
\ office expires 

i in '93- 

\ Term of 

V office expires 

J in '94- 

}Term of 
office expires 
in '93. 

] Term of 
\ office expires 
* in *94. 

}Term of 
office expires 
in '94. 



From The 

Harvard 

Annex. 



From 

Wells 

College, 



From 

Packer 

InsHlule. 



From 

Cornell 

University. 



From 

Swarthmore 

College. \ 



From, 
Elmira 
College. 



From 

Mount 

Holyoke 

Seminary. 



\ 



Non- 
Collegiate. 



Miss I^ucy A. Bushee, A., *86, 

32 East 57th St, New York City. 

Miss Sarah Yerxa, A., '94, 

37 Lancaster St, N. Cambridge, Mass. 

Mrs. Frances Folsom Cleveland, Wells, '85, 
12 West 51st St,, New York City. 

Mrs. Anna A. Piutli, Wells, '77, 

Wells College, Aurora, N.'Y. 

Miss Edna S. Doughty, P., '91, 

289 Washington St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Miss Bertha Backus,*?., '93, 

57 I^ivingston St, Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Mrs. Florence Yost Humphries, C, '88, 

Swarthmore, Pa. 

Miss Jessie M. Bunting, C, *Q3, 

Sage College, Ithaca, N. Y. 

' Miss Caroline Biddle, S'mpre, 

Lansdowne, Pa. 

Miss Marie A. Kemp, S'more, '79, 

Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa. 

Miss Mary Alice Knox, E., 

Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. 

Miss Kate Jones, E., '85, 

Englewood, N. J. 

Mrs. Ellen Newton Shepard, M. H. , 

South Orange, N. J. 

Miss Mary Cleveland, '93, 
Mt Holyoke Seminary, Holyoke, Mass. 

Miss Helen A. Benedict, 

10 West 51st St, New York City. 

Mrs Harriet Minot I^ughlin, 

68 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass. 



}Term of 
office exfnres 
in '94. 
}Term of 
office expires 
in '94. 

}Term of 
office expires 
in '94. 
}Term of 
office expires 
in '94. 

}Term of 
office expires 
in •95- 
}Term of 
office expires 
in '95- 

}Term of 
office expires 
in '94. 
}Term of 
office expires 
in •93- 

}Term of 
office expires 
in '94. 
}Term of 
office expires 
in '94 

}Term of 
office expires 
in '95- 
}Term of 
office expires 
in'95- 

}Term of 
office expires 
in '95- 
}Term of 
office expires 
in '95. 

}Term of 
office expires 
in *95. 
}Term of 
office expires 
in »95. 



EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES APPOINTED BY , 

THE ELECTORAL BOARD. 



NEW York: settlement. 

Miss Laura C. Wylie, Chairman, 

36 State Street, Brooklyn, 
Miss LizzlB F. Johnson, General Secretary, 

Montdair, N. J, 
Mre, Carolinb McMtjrtrie WellKS, Sec'y on ResideHls. 

Wilkes Barre, Pa. 
Mra. Jean Pink Spark, Treasurer, 

295 East Tenth Street, New York City. 
Miss pANNiK W. McLean, Head- Worker, 

■ 95 Riviogtoa St, New YorkCity. 
Miss Laora Billings, 

279 Madison Avenue, New York City. 
Miss HbllEn C. Swazby, Springfield, Mass. 

PHILADELPHIA SETTLEMENT, 
Mr. J. Rodman Paui., Chairman, 903 Pine Street 
Miss SOSAN P. Wharton, A'<>Tr;/ar)', 910 Clinton Streel. 
Miss Hannah Fox, Sec'y on Residents, 339 South Broad St. 
Mr. Jones Wistkr. Treasurer, 257 South Fourth Street 
Miss Helrna S. Dudley. Head- Worker, 617 St. Mary St 
Miss E. M. Kane, 1034 Clinton Street 
Miss Ida Wood, 2038 Spring Garden Street. 
Miss Louisa G. Davis, Station W., Philadelphia. 
Mr. Rodman Wisthr, 1014 Spruce Street. 

BOSTON SETTLEMENT, 
Miss Vida D. Scudder, Chainnan, 

250 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass. 
Miss Katharine Coman, Secretary, 

Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. 
Miss Emilv Balch, Secretary on Residents, 

Prince Street, Jamaica Plain, Mas 
Mrs. W. B. Eebew, Treasurer, 

317 Beacon Street, Boston, Mas 
Mr. Charles W. Birtwkll, 

24 Clinton Street, Cambridgeport, Mass. 
Miss Helen Cbekver, 93 Tyler Street, I3ostoo, Mass. 
Miss Cornelia Warren, 67 Mt Vernon SL, Boston, Mass, 



Applications for residence in the Philadelphia Settlement should be 
made to Miss Fax, 339 South Broad Street, Philadelphia. Board will not 
exceed fc.oo. 

Applications for residence in the Boston Settlement should be made 
to Miss Balch. Prince Street, Jamaica Plain, Mass. This Settlement 
is supplied with residents for i&92-'93. 



REPORT OF THE ELECTORAL BOARD. 

It is now three years since the College Settlement was started ■ 
in Rivington Street, New York. Since then the growth in all 
directions has been sure and steady. Five colleges were repre- 
sented in the association the first ye%r ; last year there were 
seven ; to-day there are eleven, and we have reason to expect 
others will follow. Our membership is slowly but constantly 
increasing, so that we are more than holding our own, a most 
encouraging outlook when it is remembered that the Settle- 
ment is now no new thing, and that those who support it are 
not moved by a first vague enthusiasm, but bj' a steady convic- 
tion that the Settlement movement is an effort made toward a 
definite good. 

There are now two Settlements iii active operation, and the 
lease has been signed for the home of the third. Besides this 
advance, the New York Settlement has found it expedient to 
enlarge its work, and has already taken another house to be 
used as kindergarten and gymnasium, under the efficient leader- 
ship of Miss Grace Darling. 

With the growth in the number of Settlements, the scope of 
the work has increased as well, for the problems to be solved 
by each Settlement are widely different, A student of sociology 
can find, in these several conditions, ample material for her 
investigations, and a lover of humanity has nearly all classes 
to share her favor. In New York the Settlement is, first of all, 
social ; it aims to bring pleasure into lives from which pleasure 
is crowded out by the unrelenting round of toil. In Phila-* 
delphia the condition is practically reversed ; the people in St. 
Mary Street and vicinity are anything but hard-working ; the 
need is not for pleasure and rest, but for employment and the 
self-respect begotten of honest labor. In Boston the work is 
too new to afford a sufficient basis for generalization, but we 
may say that the outlook there is largely toward sociological 
investigation. 

Last year we asked for fellowships, and through the generosity 
of friends of the Settlement, two fellowships of $300 each have 
been offered for this year. One of these, for work in the New 
York and Boston Settlements, was awarded to Miss Maud 
Mason, of Wellesley College, and the other, for work in the 
Philadelphia Settlement and Hull House, Chicago, to Miss 
Amelia Shapleigh, of Cornell University. 




The number of names on our books shows thaf many college 
women have found in this work a permanent interest. The 
number of full memberships does not adequately express the 
number of those interested in the Settlements and paying 
something towards their support, as will appear from the 
report of the Treasurer. The number of complete member- 
ships is divided as follows : 



Wellesley, 



Smith t 



Vassary 



Bryn Mawr, 



The Annex 



Wells 



Packer 



Cornell 



Swarthtnore 



Elmira 



( Former students 98 

\ Present students 20 



f Former students 93 

\ Present students 24 

r Former students 71 

\ Present students ao 



r Former students 18 

\ Present students 28 



f Former students 16 

\ Present students 11 



f Former students 14 

\ Present students 6 



r Former students 20 

\ Present students 2 

f Former students 16 

\ Present students . . . • • * 4 



f Former students 15 

\ Present students 5 



Ml. Holyoke . . \ 



Former students 7 

Present students 13 



/ Former students 21 

( Present students 7 



(Amherst, Barnard, Boston, Univer- 
sity of California, Columbia, Har- 
vard, Normal College, Princeton, 
Yale 



118 



117 



91 



46 



27 



20 



22 



20 



20 



20 



28 



17 



Total of Collegiate Members 
Non-Collegiate Members 



Total Membership 



546 
219 

765 



Thus it will be seen that the outlook is encouraging. More 
and more are our college women coming to feel that this is 
work calling for their best activities and support. No small 
part of the value of Settlement life lies in its educating 

8 



influence on the workers, and hence it is in this training of 
college women to an intelligent and sympathetic interest in the 
great problems before the world to-day, tiiat a strong reason for 
me Settlement movement is found. 

We have no statistics to record, no tabulated additions to 
economic science to deliver. But we have found that simple, 
healthfid living is possible in the midst of poor conditions ; that 
existence divested of certain conventional unrealities is richer 
and more worth while ; that genuine Christian neighbor- 
liness is no chimerical vision, but the happy prophecy of a 
reconciled world. 

F1.0RBNCB Y. Humphries, 

Sec, Electoral Board. 



5^ 



CO 



o s 






w 

O S 
O 

s 

O 

PL4 




4 


8 « 
1 ^ 


S 


8^ 8 




8 8 

fl M 


SSg8 

fl *o»< 







o 



1 



g 






>< i.3 I'm \-*S:^ 8| 



•l-^l.- 



M 



to 



»» 



00 



§ 



• • 

CI 00 



«8 



»0 



88 



o 



8 8<S? 



i 
<% 



S - 

M 0} 

fl «> ^ 
^ssa 

o 



1 






S^i", 



ON 



fl 
o 

8 



Wi 

.O 



o 



bo 
fl 






fl 
fl 
O 

"it- 



'S 



Si 

(0 

a; 



•s 

> 

I 



2 

•a 

u 



I 



'5 



• fl 
u 

fl a> 



g o 

B 



B 



CO 

fl 



M-^ 






fl 



fl H fr 



2? 

I- 
8-0 



fl 

8 



4) 
fl 

-a 

fl 

S o o 

ill 



fl 

Si 






1 

I 



lo 



• • • • 
O ^W M 






M 

00 

M 



s 



»0 



Si 



S8 









S 

5 

•^ 

« 



8 

M 






888 

o to 



5 



IH-9'P 

w g 



••a 



8 .• 



.o o 



OS 



Z\ 



«0I 




ft 



|8u5 

a « o ? 

O CO (> O 

mo 



>v4 4-> 



to 






• 


. 9 


t^ 


r« cd 


.s 


(2^ t5 


^ 


M U 




.: « 








s?'^ 




1 



I 



.o 



o 

8 

ce 

4) 



H o 



« 

^ 
« 



•8 
•■3 

i 
s 



S 



II 



NOTES BY THE GENERAI. TREASURER. 



Two fellowships of $300 each have been given for the current 
year — one by Miss Susan Uphain, and one by two people, — 
Mr. Edward P. Button, $100, and A Friend, $200. Mrs. H. 
M. lyaughlin has given $500 toward a Boston Settlement 

The Treasurer begs to call attention to Article VIII. of the 
Constitution, by which subscriptions are due after September 
first. They would be gratefully received during September and 
October, though notifications are delayed in order to accompany 
the annual report. 

Owing to the vote of the Electoral Board providing that all 
names of subscribers with sums given be printed, whether full 
members or not, and owing also to the great difficulty of main- 
taining the club system among those paying partial member- 
ships, electors are requested to give simply names of subscribers 
with amounts subscribed, ranging them under classes, according 
to year of graduation. Gradaates and senior classes should 
also have addresses given. 

Graduates of last spring are given as alumnse in this report. 

Members of faculties who are graduates of colleges support- 
ing this Association have their subscriptions counted with the 
latter (unless by special arrangement), but their names are also 
given in the faculty list. 

New subscriptions received after April first are credited to 
the financial year beginning the following September. 

WELLESLEY COLLEGE. 

Faculty, 

Bates, Prof. K. L. Knox, Prof. M. A. Pendleton, E. F. 

Burrell, E. L. Montague, A. S. Sherwood, M. P. 

Calkins, M. S. Mdller, Elspeth Scudder, V. D. 

Case, Prof. M. S. Miiller, Margarethe Whiting, Prof. S. F. 

Coman, Prof Katharine Paul, S. W. Wilcox, Prof. Mary 

Edwards, K. M. Ritchie, E. C. Woodman, C. A. 

Jewett, Sophie Roberts, Prof. C. F. Young, A. M. 

Undergraduates, 

Bray, I^rriet Shultz, E. B. 

Pennington, L. O. Trebein, Elizabeth 

12 



Beecher, Elizabeth, with four others 
Chapman, H. B., " " 

Freeman, Grace, " " '' 

Hoopes, Florence, 

Huntington, S. D, " " 
Lucas, Frances, " three " 

Newman, Caroline, " " " 
Newton, Mrs. J. S., " four " 
Pierce, C. F., ■' nine - 

Randolph, C. F.. " four •• 

Sims, J. I., " three " 

Simrell, Josephine, with- Edith White 
Skidmore, A. L., with five others 
Spaulding, H. H., '' four "' 
Taylor, Leila, with Marianna Blood 
Tomlinson, Annie, with Mary Conynglon 

College Subscription— Full |ioo o 

" " Partial 85 o 

Jl8s c 
Alumna and Other Former Sludents. 

Adams, Dr. J. S., West Park, Ulster Co., N. V $50 

Allen, A. M,, a66 Chestnut St., Chelsea, Mass 50 

Andrews, Grace, 135 East Fifty-seventh St., New York 50 

Arnold, A. G., 7 Harvard St., Worcester, Mass 5 c 

Bailey, Mrs. H. F., 113 Prospect St. East Orange, N.J 50 

Ball, Mrs. H. E., 1243 Western Ave., Topeka, Kan 50 

Baker, Blanche, s84johu R. St., Detroit, Mich 50 

Balch, H. E., with three others, 136 Warbnrton Ave., Yonkers, 

N.Y 5 f 

Bancroft, Edith, Reading, Mass 50 

Banta, Effie, 144 St. James PL, Brooklyn. N. Y 50 

BBmes, L. C., Binghamton, N. Y 50 

Bates, M. W., 161 Genesee St, Aubum, N.Y 50 

Bosworth, Anne, 1S5 Main St., Amesbury, Mass. 50 

Bialcy, Elizabeth, 619 County St., New Bedford, Mass. 50 

Bray, E. W., Yarmouthport, Mass 50 

Briggs, E. E., 80 Fifth Ave., New York 50 

Brown, M. L., Hotel Beresford, 1 West Eighty-first St., New York 5 o 

Burr, Lillian, Croton, N, Y 50 

Carter, M. W., 21 Park St., Montclair, N. Y 50 

Chaiobers, H. S., Newtown, Pa 50 

Clarke. Kate. 98 Mill St, Newport, B. I. . . 50 

Conant, Martha, Greenfield, Mass. 50 

Cook, M.E. Walnut St., Oat Park, 111 50 

Damon, R. S., Plymouth, Mass 50 

Davidson, Mrs. C. P., 1525 Adams St, Scranton, Pa 50 

Davidson, J E., 1525 Adams St, Scranton, Pa 50 

Drury, E. M., 119 St. Botolph St, Boston go 

Dancan, G. L., 17 Seymour St, Syracuse, N. Y 50 

Emerson, Dora, 409 North Church St, Rockford, 111 50 

Panning. G. M. W., Tarrytown, N. V , 50 

Ferris, Enninia, 1341 Sherman Ave., Denver, Col 50 

Fiske, E. W., Wellesley Hills, Mass 50 

Freeman, S. J., 64 Early St., Morristown, N.J 50 

Fnrber, J. H., 446 Shawmut Ave.. Boston 50 

Gamble. A. E. M., 15 Broad St., Plattsburg. N. Y ."i 01 

Glover. Mabel, with Ethel Glover, 1303 Q St., N. W., 

D. C 



Green, Eleanor, 14 John St., Providence, R. 1 5 g 

Hand. Charlotte, 315 West Washington Ave., Scranfon, Pa. ... go 

Harwood, Harriet, with Grace Edwards, Bennington, Vt. .... jo 

Hiiichliff,.Mrs. W. E., 404 North Main SL, Rockford, 111. .... 50 

Eolbroolc, Agnes, with three others, Mareago, la. 50 

Holmes, H. W., 263 Court St., Plymouth, Maw 50 

Horton, K. B., Windsor Lodes, Conn 50 

Howe, Mary, 444 Chestnut St., Chicago, 111 50 

Jessup, M. D., Montrose, Pa 50 

Joslin, A. L., 517 Beacon St, Boston 50 

Keller, Maude, with four others, ^ellestey. Mass < a 

Kendrick6,E. H.,2ioi Spruce St,, Philadelphia, Pa. 50 

Lauderbum, M. D. E., 30 South Laurel St, Hazleton, Pa. . . . 50 

Lord, A. L.. Ipswich, Mass. , '. •; o 

Mason. Maud, with Bertha Palmer, 95 Rivington St., New York. 5 o 
McAlamey. E. L., with Nettie Pull en, 219 West Second St, Hartia- 

burg. Pa 50 

MoSat, E. F., with three otbeis. Cumberland, Me. 50 

Morse, Katharine, North Haverhill, N. H 50 

Nichols, H. D,, Dudley, Mass 50 

Nortbey. Isabelle.with four otherB,Greenbush, Plymouth Co., Mass. 5 o 

Patterson, M. S., 4 Franklin St. Allegheny, Pa 50 

Peabody, S. W., 27 McGregor Ave., Ondnnati, Ohio 50 

Peanuain, Mia. S, B., 53 State St, Boston, Mass 50 

Rood, H. P., Concord, Mass. 50 

Sanborn, H. J., 3S3 Broadway, Somerville, Mass 50 

Sherwin, Belle, 1324 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 50 

Sibley, Charlotte, Belfast, Me 50 

Sinclair, I, A., Free Institute, Worcester, Mass 50 

Smith. B. E., Waterman Hill, Sycamore, 111 50 

Sorge, E. N.. Harcourt Place. Gambler, Ohio 50 

Spencer, C. P.. Harcourt Place, Gambier, Ohio 50 

Stephens, A. B., 10 West Thirtieth St. Belvidere, N.J 50 

Stevens, A. A., The Chelsea, West Twenty-third St, New York. 5 o 

Stewart, Emily, 361 Harvard St, Cambridge, Mass 30 

Stimson, C. C, 34 East Thirty-third St, New York. 50 

Storer, H. A., 115 High St, Akron, Ohio 50 

Storms, S. J., Monument Beach, Mass 50 

Strong, C. B., Portland, Oregon 10 o 

Thayer, E.C., II West St, Milford, Mass 50 

Thayer, Josephine, 11 West St, Milford, Mass. 50 

Thompson, Mrs. N. F., 63 Chestnut St, East Orange, N- J. . . . 50 

Underwood, Grace, 145 West Fifty-eighth St, New York 50 

Walker, C. R,, SsGrove St., New Haven, Conn 50 

Ward, K. M., Hillside Ave., Moutclair, N. J. . . . 50 

White, L. B.. 205 Chicago Ave., Evanston, 111 50 

Wiggin, M. C, 2101 Spruce St, Philadelphia, Pa. 5 a 

Willard, Mabel, New Haven, Conn 5 oi 

Wilcox, Valeria, Maiden, Mass. 5 01 

Williams, MiB. O. L., Low Place, New Biighton,L. 1 50, 

Williamson, C. L., 3230 Michigan Ave.. Ciicago, 111 5 01 

Winegar, A. L., care of G. W. Cowles. Esq., Clyde, N. Y 50 

Woodman, A. S., a8i West End Ave., New York 50. 

Young, Mrs. C. S., Newton Centre, Mass 50 

$450 » 

Alnmnse subscriptions paid for the year 1892-93 (35 o 



SMITH COLLEGE. 



C00I4 B. P. 
Cushing, B. P. 



Aldrich, Al O. 
Barry, F. S. 
Blias, Miss 
Chase, Bdifh 
Coyle, a B. 
Bvans, L. L. 
Pifield, B. F. 



Faculty. 

Gardiner, Prof. H. N. 
Hesse, P. C. 
Jordan, M. A. 
Tyler, P. M. 

Undergraduates. 

Hickley, Adeline 
Howe, Jenny 
lies, C. H. 
Lyman, V. D. 
Morris, A. L. 
Ormsbee, C. W. 
Richardson, Belle 



Preston, Dr. G. A. 
Thayer, M. V. 
Tyler, Rev. H. M. 



Ruger, H. M. 
Scovill, P. M. 
Seelye, Mabel 
Stone, C. S. 
Waring, M. K. 
Whiton, H. I. 



[partial memberships.] 

Bradford, S. S., with two others 
Bntwistle, A., with H. M. Watterson 
Bstes, J. L. 
Sabin, P. R., with four others 

College Subscription —Pull I140 00 

*' Partial 18 50 

I158 50 
Alumna and Other Former Students, 

Abbot, P. H., with four others, Wilton, N. H |5 00 

Adams, H. B., with Grace Ames, 528 La Salle Ave., Chicago, 111. . 5 00 

Allen, A^ B.| 263 Harvard St, Cambridgeport, Mass 5 00 

Allen, A*. W., Bridgeport, Conn i 00 

Allen, Grace W., with two others, 98 Broadway, New Haven, 

Conn 6 67 

Austin, Maude, Darien, Conn 5 00 

Bartley, H. P., 8^ Congress St., Bridgeport, Conn 2 00 

Barton, A. B., with A. Barton, Preeport, 111 5 00 

Booth, Mary M. , with two others, New Britain, Conn 5 00 

Boyd, H. A., 14 North Fourth St., Philadelphia, Pa 5 00 

Brooks, A. S., 135 Clifton St., Maiden, Mass 5 00 

Brooks, Mrs. Morgan, 529 Holly Ave., St. Paul, Minn 5 00 

Brown, B. B., 50 Pinckney St., Boston 5 00 

Bruce, G. A., 105 Elm St., Northampton, Mass 5 00 

Bruce, G. A., with four others, ro5 Elm St., Northampton, Mass. . 5 00 

Bumham, J. E., 21 17 Independence Ave., Kansas City, Mo. ... 5 00 

Bush, Sally, Salem, Ore 5 00 

Buswell, A. M., 92 Franklin St., Newton, Mass 5 00 

Cadwallader, E. W., 193 North Perry St., Titus ville, Pa 5 00 

Calkins, M. W., Bellevue St., Newton, Mass 5 00 

Carr, Agnes, 19 Bullard St., Dorcnester, Mass 5 00 

Cheever, L. S., 17 West Forty-fourth St., New York 5 00 

15 



Clark, Mrs. Samuel, Williamstown, Mass. 5 oo 

Cone, Mrs. K. M., Hartford, Vt. 5 00 

Coolidge, C. H., with four others, Ashbumham, Mass. 5 00 

Corns, S. A., 194 East Main St, Massillon, Ohio 5 00 

Cushman, H. F., Monson, Mass 5 00 

Day, C. E., 280 Newbury St., Boston 5 00 

De Land, H. P., Fairport, N. Y. . 5 00 

Drew, Marioi), with W. von C. Walbridge, 452 Main St, Worces- 
ter, Mass. 5 00 

Emory, C. J., 138 Spring St, Springfield, Mass 5 00 

Francis. V. H., 1732 Master St, Philadelphia, Pa. 5 00 

Franklin, R. B , Box 62, Newport, R. 1 5 00 

Gallaudet, G. W., Kendall Green, Washington, D. C. ..... . 5 00 

Gladden, Alice, Box 614, Columbus, Ohio 5 00 

Greene, Mrs. R. W., 48 East Twenty-sixth St, New York 5 00 

Halship, Alice, 79 Lincoln Ave., Allegheny, Pa 5 00 

Hiebee, Mrs. E. W., Northampton, Melss 5 00 

HcMmes, E. R.> Monson, Mass. 5 00 

Holt, Ellen, Lake Forest, HI 5 00 

Hyde, A. C, 380 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass 5 00 

Irwin, I. R., Allegheny, Pa. 5 00 

Jackson, A. B., 26 Quincy St., North Adams, Mass 5 00 

James, Gertrude, 226 Gates Ave., Brooklyn, N.Y 500 

Jenkins, A. S., 612 Seventh St, Sioux City, Iowa. 5 00 

Johnson, E. F., Montclair, N. J 5 00 

Johnson, Grace, 105 Croton Ave., Sing SiuR, N. Y. ..•••. . 5 00 

Johnson, M. A., 617 St. Mary Street, Philaaelphia 5 00 

Jones, Mrs. D. P., 2021 Third Ave., South Minneapolis, Minn. . . i 00 

Jordan, M. A., Aubumdale, Mass 5 00 

Keeler, Katharine, 15 Seminary Ave., Auburn, N. Y 5 00 

Knox, Mary F., 88 West Washington PI., New York 500 

Lathrop, E. B., 469 Franklin St, Buffalo, N. Y. . . 5 00 

Mason, M. L., 164 West Chester Pk., Boston, Mass. 5 00 

Matthews, Mrs. Shailer, Waterville, Me 5 00 

Mead, K. L., 60 East Seventy-ninth St, New York 10 00 

Mead, S B.,* 7 Granite St, New London, Conn 500 

Merriam, Mrs. Arthur, Buckingham St, Springfield, Mass 5 00 

Merriam, F. A., 38 West Thirty-fourth Street, New York 500 

Norton, Mrs. L. M., Auburndale, Mass 5 00 

Owen, A. L., 76 Marlboro St., Boston, Mass 5 00 

Pratt, L. A, with three others, 778 Main St, Worcester, Mass. . . 6 00 

Rand, J. S., Westfield, Mass 5 00 

Rice, H. R., Newton Centre, Mass 5 00 

Richardson, C, L., Ilion, N. Y 5 00 

Rogers, C. W., 246 Newbury St., Boston, Mass. 5 00 

Rogers, Grace, 711 North Main St, Elmira, NY 5 00 

Rogerson, F. R., Green St., Hudson, N. Y 6 25 

Rumsey, Olive, Rockford Seminary, Rockford, 111 5 00 

Sabin, M. S., Box 2865, Denver, Col i 00 

SaflFord, A. W., 69 Schermerhom St. , Brooklyn, N. Y 5 00 

Scribner, Ella, Tarrytown, N. Y 5 00 

Scudder, V. D., 250 Newbury St, Boston, Mass 5 00 

Sebring, E. G , Tarrytown, N. Y 5 00 

Seelye, A. H., Amherst, Mass 10 00 

Seelye, H. C, Elm St., Northampton, Mass 5 00 

Sergeant, C. B , 971 Broad St., Newark, N.J 5 00 

Simons, Mrs. S. A., 186 Linwood Ave., Buffalo, N. Y 5 00 

Smith, M. M., St. Catharine's Hall, Augusta, Me i 00 

Spahr, Mrs. C. B., 295 East Tenth St., New York 5 00 

Steele, C.L., Middlebury, Vt 5 00 

Stetson, Jennie, Lakeville, Mass i 00 

16 



Sterenfl. M. L., 26 Dexter St, Maiden, Mass. 5 00 

Swift, B. R., Ban Oaixe, Wis. 5 00 

Thayer, Mrs. L. H., 122 State St, Portsmouth, N. H 5 00 

Thomson, If D., Belchertown, Mass 2 50 

Tiemann, B. C, 127th St and Boulevard, New York 5 00 

Trowbridge, C R., 27 Delaware PL, Chicago, HI 5 00 

Trypn, B. C., Batavia, N. Y 5 00 

Waite, A. V., Mary Institute, St lyouis. Mo 5 00 

Wallace, J. M., 2420 Harney St., Omaha, Neb 5 00 

Wheeler, B. B., 26 Cabot St., Providence, R. I 5 00 

White, G. G., Tappan St., Brookline, Mass 5 00 

V^liams, B. S., 220 North St., Buffalo, N. Y 5 00 

Wilson, N. P., 62 Walnut St., Natick, Mass 500 

Wolcott, H. I/., Wethersfield, Conn i 25 

Wood, iSabel, 880 St Mark's Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y 5 00 

U^ 67 
Alumnse subscriptions paid for the year i892-'93 . . |7i 00 



17 



VASSAR COLLEGE. 



Faculfy, 

Bly, Pro£ A. M. Kendrick, Mrs. J. R. O'Grady, Prof. M. I. 

Farwell. Dr. G. A. Loomis, M. R. Whitney, Prof. M. W. 

Undergraduates, 

Belcher, P. S. Evans, E. R. McCurdy, Caroline 

Brown, M. C. King, G. B. Palmer, R. E. 

Clark, M. V. Stickney, Rnth 

[PARTIAI« 1CBMBBR8HIP8.] 

Agne, N. L., with four others 
Ferrell, M. E., with six others 
Hall, E. A., with nine others 
Hastings, M. L., with L* B. Hawes 
Robbins, Florence 
Sands, A. G., with Georgiana Sands 
Stagg, P. H., with six others 
Stickney, Ruth, with a club 
Whitcomb, Adele, with two others 

College Subscription — Full ^ . . $^o oo 

•♦ " Partial 42 50 

|ii2 50 
Alumna and Other Former Students. 

Allen, M. T., with Annie Apple^te, Red Bank, N. J |5 00 

Armstrong, Mrs. H. K., 108 Mam St., Pen Yan, Yates Co., N. Y. . 5 00 

Backus, Mrs. H. H., 57 Livingston St., Brooklyn, N. Y 5 00 

Banfield, E. C, 47 Pinckney St., Boston, Mass 500 

Banfield, M. C, 47 Pinckney St., Boston, Mass 5 00 

Barr, L. M., New Ipswich, N. H 10 00 

Barstow, Mrs. F. Q., 85 Prospect St., Orange, N.J 500 

Barns, Mrs. Carl, 1409 Thirtieth St., Washington, D. C 5 00 

Beckwith, E. R., loi East Eighty seventh St., New York .... 5 00 

Bonnell, M. M., 1009 S. Forty-seventh St, Philadelphia 5 00 

Brown, H. D., 42 East Eleventh St, New York 5 00 

Brush, Rebecca, with nine others. South Orange, N. J , 5 00 

Case, F. E., 1629 Spruce St., Philadelphia . 500 

Chandler, M. M., 197 Forty-seventh St, Chicago, 111 5 00 

Clark, Mrs. J. B., 23 Round Hill, Northampton, Mass 5 00 

Cushing, F. M., 8 Walnut St., Boston, Mass 10 00 

Dauiela,E. J., with six others, 342 E- Fulton St, Grand Rapids, Mich. 5 00 

X^arling, Grace, 95 Rivington St, New York 5 00 

Uuvis, Lucy, 576 Lexin^on Avenue, New York 5 00 

Fv^ster. A. W., Hotel Eliot, Roxbury, Mass 5 00 

Krcudenthal, Rose, Englewood, N. J 5 00 

(uHiia, E. F., Suncliffe, Tarrytown, N. Y 5 00 

(imut, L. C, 46a Holly Avenue, St Paul, Minn 500 

Ovigua, H.F, Washington St., Brookline, Mass. 500 

lUUulay, Vesta, with Katharine Strong, Cairo, 111 5 00 

Hwrt, Emma, Albion, N.Y 5 00 

18 



Hazard, Bertha, i8 Centre St., Roxbury, Mass 

Hodges, Mrs. James, 1103 Madison St., Toledo, Ohio 5 Qol 

HoUister, Mrs. S.H., East Bloomfield, N.Y 5 cm. I 

Houghton, E. G., 191 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 5 ooa 

Ickler. Jennie, care of West Side Batik, St. Paul, Minn 3 00] 

Jackson, Mrs. W. S., Colorado Springs, Col. 5 oaa 

James, L. B., with M. Smith, Ameuia, Duchess Co., N. Y 5 OO'J 

Jordan, M. A.., Hatfield House, Northampton, Mass 5 00I 

Kimball, Mrs. ^. P., Fort Clark, Bracketville, Texas , * 

Lawrence, Louise, 11 West Forty-sixth St., N. Y 

Lewis, S. B. D., 128 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass 

Meeker, A. L., 44 Linden St., Brooklyn, N. Y 

Meeker, J. A., 44 Linden St, Brooklyn, N. Y 

Moorehead, H. G., 309 Main St., Xenia, Ohio 500J 

Packard, M. S., Bayonne, N.J Sogl 

Paimly, Mrs. D. D., North Adams, Mess 500I 

Pierson, M. H., 13 HiUyer St., Orange, N.J 50>| 

Pringle, Katharine, East High SL, Springfield, O ■ 

Prudden, L. E.p 373 Grange SI., New Haven, Conn 

Putnam, Estelle, with two others, College Ave., S., Grand Rapids, 

Mich 

Qninn, E. M., 115 High St., West Bluff, Peoria, III 

Richards, E. S., care of Mr. F. Taylor, Ross St., Germantown, Pa. J 00 I 

Robbina, A. M., 5 Crocus Hill, St. Paul, Minn ■ 

Sanford.M.R., 100 First St., Troy, N. Y 

Sherwood, M. P., Wellesley College, Wellealey, Mass. 

Smith, Katharine, 1013 Woodward Ave., Detroit, Mich 

Steams, Edith, care of F. Stearns &. Co., Detroit, Mich 

Stevens, L, M., 31 Jefferson Avenue,, Columbus, O 

Thompson, Mrs. W. R., 31 Lincoln Ave., AUegheny City, Pa., . . 

Tompkins, JuUette, San Leandro, Cal 

TownsenU, M. G., West Chester, Pa 

Trask, Mrs, G. G., 137 West Forty-ninth St., New York 5 QO | 

Tunnicliffe, S. B., with twoothers, Macomb, 111 5 00 I 

Waldron, Dr. M. M., Hampton Institute, Hampton, Va 5 oo ■ 

Wells, Margaret, Johnstown, N. Y 5 oo.l 

Wharton, S. P., 910 Clinton St, Philadelphia, Pa 5 oa| 

Wheeler, Laura, 15 East Forty-sixth St., New York 5 OoM 

White, C.S., 45 Trumbull St., New Haven, Conn 500* 

Whiteman, Mrs. J. H,, Port Angelus, Washington 5 00 I 

Whitney, Dr. A. S., 124 Dartmouth SL, Boston 5 auM 

Wilson, Mrs. George, 124 Bessemer St., Providence, R. 1 5*# 

Winslow, Mrs. Edward, 27 West Twenty-third St., New York . . 5 OO. 1 

Withington, Mrs. Northrop, Belleville, N.J 50 

Wood, Ida, 2038 Spring Garden St., Philadelphia, Pa 50 

Wylie, L. J.,83GroveSt.,NewHaveu, Conn 5 c 

Total 1353 



College Subscriptions paid for the year i392-'93 . 



.$69 9 



BRYN MAWR COLLEGE. 



Faculfy. 

Gwinn, Mary, Ph. D. Thomas, Miss M. Carey, Ph. D., Dean 

Derkheim-Irwin, Mrs. A. M., Mistress of Denbeigh Hall. 

Under;g^raduat€s, 

Bailey, E. D. MacVeagh, M. C. 

Bent, E. C Minor, M. L. 

Brownell, L. S. Neilson, Nellie 

Coleman, A. C. Putnam, B. H. 

Converse, L. B. Reid, Estelle 

Hilles, M. H. Reitze, H. C. 

Rowland, Marcella Taylor, G. E. 

Jackson, Josephine Thomas, H. W. 

Keen, Dora Van Kirk, E. L. 

Langdon, J. O. Walker, S. G. 

[partial MBICBBRSHIPS.] 

Ames, Edith Harris, P. B. 

Atkins, E. L. Hopkins, E. P. 

Atkins, S. P. Homer, Miss 

Brayton, A. S. I/a Porte, M. D. 

Breed, M. B. Malott, E. L. 

Bro¥mell, J. L. (club of four) Oliver, R. L. 

Clark, E. M. Potts, L. E. 

Crawford, M. V. Rock, A. C. 

Ellis, M. P. Shearman, M. H. 

Emerson, Ruth Staples, H. R. 

Pollansbee, B. D. Walker, E. H. 

Pnrman, R. A. Walker, E- McC. 

Hamilton, Edith Warren, A. P. 

College Subscription — Pull |iio oo 

" " Partial 46 oo 

I156 00 

Alumna and Other Former Students, 

AUinson, Gertrude, 726, 729 Drexel Building, Philadelphia, Pa. . $$ 00 

Annan, H. C, 11 De Vere Gardens, Kensington, London, N. Eng. 5 00 

Balch, E. G., Prince St., Jamaica Plain, Mass 500 

Bartlett, Helen, 107 Randolph Ave., Peoria, 111 i 00 

Claghom, K. H., 81 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, N. Y 5 00 

Clements, H. T., South Porty-second St, Philadelphia, Pa. ... 2 50 

Dudley, H. S., 617 St Mary St, Philadelphia, Pa 500 

Emery, A. C, Ellsworth, Me. 5 00 

Kirk, Abby i 00 

I/awrence, Caroline, Saratoga, N. Y 5 00 

Mason, M. T., School House I^ane, Germantown, Pa 5 00 

Parish, Ethel, Radnor, Pa. 5 00 

Sampson, E. P.» Church Lane and Chew St., Germantown, Pa. . 5 00 

Sampson, L. V., Church Lane and Chew St., Germantown, Pa. . 5 00 

20 



Smith, A. W., 44 Grosyenor Rd., Westminster, London, S. W., 

England 5 00 

Smith, E. J., 80 Willoughby St, Brooklyn, N.Y 500 

Weil, Blatfide, 1720 Pine St, Philadelphia, Pa 5 00 

Wetherill, Edith, Chatkley Hall, Station E, Philadelphia, Pa. . . 5 00 
Whitall, M. C, died 1892. Subscription continued in memoriam 

by Mrs. M. C. Whitall, 9 East Penn St, Germantown, Pa. . . 5 00 

Winsor, E. W., Weston, Mass 2 00 

Wright, M. A., Wissahickon Ave., Germantown, Pa 5 00 



fei 50 



College Subscription paid for the year i892-*93 . . . I107 50 
Alumnae *' '* " "... 26 00 



I133 50 



THE ANNEX. 

Under^yxuiuates. 

Balch, Elizabeth Hopkinson, Christina 

Bigelow, Eleanor Hopkinson, L. W. 

Eliot, Ada Mott-Smith, Ida 

George, J. H. Stone, E. A. 

Hallowell, A. N. Yerxa, S. E. 

[PARTIAI* MBMBBR8HIP8.] 

Snyder, M. S., with four others. 

College Subscription — Full I50 00 

" " Partial 5 00 

l55 00 

Alumna and Other Former Students, 

Bliss, M. E., II Marlborough St, Boston I5 00 

Bushed, L- A., 150 East Forty -fifth St, New York 5 00 

Canfield, A. L., Bryn Mawr School, Baltimore, Md 5 00 

Coes, Mary, 10 Garden St., Cambridge, Mass. 5 00 

Hale, A. C, with four others, 122 W. Franklin St, Baltimore, Md. 5 00 

Howe, K. McP., with four others, Qoncord Ave., Cambridge, Mass. 5 00 

Ken:^on, F. E., 13 West Seventh St, Plainfield, N. J 10 00 

Leavitt, M. A., 317 Harvard St, Cambridge, Mass 5 00 

Lyman, Ella, 39 Beacon St., Boston 5 00 

Macurdy, G. H., Watertown, Mass 5 00 

Parry, Eleanor, 147 East Thirtieth St., New York . 5 00 

Scripture, Bertha, Lincoln, Mass 2 50 

Scripture, Mary, Lincoln, Mass 2 50 

Sears, A. L., 85 Mount Vernon St., Boston, Mass 5 co 

Tyler, G. E., 91 Main St., Winchester, Mass 5 00 

Witte, B. B., Charleston, S. C 5 00 

|8o 00 
Alumnae subscriptions paid for the year 1 892-* 93 5 00 

21 



WELLS COLLEGE. 

Faculty, 

Frisbee, Edward S., D. D., Pres. Piutti, Mrs. Anna A. 

Keeler, Katharine, Smith, Hden P. 

Undergradutes, 
Loomis, P. J. Morgan, E. S. Walker, J. C 

College Subscription I30 00 

Alumna and Other Former Students, 

Bellows, M. A., The Jenkinson, Spring St., Rochester, N. Y. . . . I5 00 

Carpenter, Mrs. E L., 70 Willow St., Minneapolis, Minn 5 00 

Chase, Jessie, 31 Edmund Place, Detroit, Mioi 5 00 

Freeman, Kate B., 1650 Sherman Ave. , Denver, Col 5 00 

Gardner, Martha, New London, Conn 5 00 

Goldsmith, Anna, Port Gibson, N. Y 5 00 

Loomis, Jeanet E-, Attica, N. Y 5 00 

Morss, Marion, 607 West Genesee St., Syracuse, N. Y 5 00 

Perkins, Alice, Oxford, N. Y 5 00 

Phillips, Margaret, 344 Ridg^e Ave., Allegheny, Pa 5 00 

Robie, Grace, per Chief Engineer E. D.iRobie, Navy Department, 

Washington, D. C x - 5 00 

Ross, Frances, 29 William St., Auburn, N. Y 5 00 

Shae£fer, Elizabeth, Iowa City, Iowa 5 00 

Smith, J. J., Elizabeth, N. T 5 00 

Walker, Helen B., Aubumdale, Mass 5 00 

Welles, Virginia, Wyalusing, Bradford County, Pa 5 00 

Williams, Maty, ^5 Williams St., New London, Conn 5 00 

Wright, Euphemia, Riverside, San Bernardino County, Cal. ... 5 00 

Total $90 00 

College Subscriptions paid for the year 1892-93. ... $65 00 
Alumnae " '* '* ** "".... 15 00 

$^ 00 



PACKER COLLEGIATE INSTITUTE. 

Two Undergraduate Subscriptions f lo 00 

Twenty Alumnae " 100 00 

|iio 00 



22 



SWARTHMORE COLLEGE. 



Bond, E. P., Dean. 



Faculty. 
Kemp, Prof. M. A. 
(Jvdcrgraduates , 
Shaver, F. G. 



I 



Shaw, J. C. 

College Subscription J40 00 

Alumna atid Other Former Sttidefili. 

Atkinson, Alice, Holicong, Pa 50 

Biddle. C. C, Lnnsdowne, Pa 50 

Clothier, E. J., Wynnewood, Pa. 50 

Clothier, H. H., Wynnewood. Pa 50 

Hall, Alice and others, Swarthmore, Pa 50 

Hillbom, Annie, Swarthmore, P 
Jackson. CBrrie, Jericho, N. Y. 

Ketcham, P. H., Swarthmore, Pa. , 50 

Lewis, Dora, Media, Pa 5 

Parker, Elizabeth, West Chester, Pa. . 
Pvfe, Jessie, London Grove, Pa. . . , 

Rolfe, B. C, Concord, Mass , 

Stebbins, M. E., Swarthmore, Pa. . . 



Total . 



CORNELL UNIVERSITY. 



Berry, E. W. 

Bunting, J. M. 

College Subscription 



. f 20 O 



Alumna and Other Partner Students. 

Baldwin, Florence, Bryn Mawr, Pa 

Corser, Mary E., 1819 Vine PI.. Minneapolis, Minn 

Dickey, L. S,, Sage College, Ithaca, N. Y 

Edwards, K. M., Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass 

Gilbert, E. L., with two others, Millersville, Pa. 50 

Grant, Edith, 120 Broadway, New York 

Humphries, Mrs. J. H., Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa. . . 

Macomber, Mrs. L J., 18 LynnSt., Ithaca, N. Y 

Minot, Mrs. W. M., Jr., Charlesgate Hotel, Boston 

Ritchie, E. C, WeUesley College. Wellesley, Mass 50 

Shapleigh, Amelia, care of Mrs, Die Bull, Cambridge, Mass. . . . 

Smith, Mrs. Albert, Palo Alto, Cal 

Snyder, E. S,, Herkimer, N. Y 

Thomas, M. C, Ph. D., Bryn Mawr College, Eryn Mawr, Pa, . . 
Wetherell, J. J., aiS North Nineteenth St., Philadelphia, Pa. . . , 
Willard, J. E.. 7 BoydSt., Watertown, N. Y 



S8o o 



College Subscription for the year 1893- '93 



„^ ^JLi.EGE. 




Carpenter, . 
Chase, Jeaue, ^ 
Freeman, KhU 
Gardner, Mai;' 
Goldsmith. A: . 
Loomis, jeuii-* 
Mots?. M Brian, 
Perkins, 
Pbillips. Muf^' 
Robic, Grace, f^' 

Washinit'- 
RosB, Fianua 
Sliaeffcr, Eltl " 
SmiOi, J, J.,: 
Walker. Hell 
■Welles, VlTflll 
"Williams, W-" 
■Wright. EupJ 



r 



MT. HOLYOKE COLLEGE. 

(This subscription is for iSga-'gs.) 

Mead, Mrs. B. S., President. 

UndergraduaUs. 

md, Violet Halsey, Anna 

eveland, Mary Schwartz, Pauline 



Class of 1893, Special Students. 
Class of 1894. X e X Society. 
Class of 1895. i * A Society. 
College Subscriptioa I70 o 

Alumna and Other Former Slndents. 
Brown, Mrs. Silas B,, 718 Nostrand Ave., Brooklyn, N, Y. . 

Clapp, Cornelia, College, South Hadley, Mass 

Class of '91, College, South Hadley, Mass 

Cowles, I,. F., College, South Hadley. Mass 50 

Dyer, Mrs. W. R., 40 Hancock St., Dorchester, Mass. ... 
Gonid, Annie, Box 1666, Portland, Me 



Total . 



MEMBERS FROM OTHER COLLEGES. 

A, — Amherst, H. — Harvard. 

£'«r— Barnard. M. I. 7".— Mass. Inst, of Technology.A 

.fl.— Boston Unirersity. jV. C.-Normal College, N. Y. " 

Cal. — University of California. P. — Princeton. 

Co/.— Columbia, K— Yale. 

Barren, C. C., B., 343 Broadway, Cambridge, Mass (5 01 

Bliss, Rev. H. S.,.f^.. 6 Middagh St., Brooklyn. N, Y 50 

Campbell, M, M„ Ca/., 1261 Webster St, Oakland, Cal 501 

Channing. Eva, B., Jamaica Plains, Mass 50 

Coleman, Mr, J, C, K, 10 Wall St., New York 50 

Dame,L. M.,.ff., Ill GreenSl.,Lynn, Mass 50 

Gage. E, A.,.fl,, NewPlatz,N.Y 50 

Hamilton, Mr. H. D., CoL, 261 Broadway, New York 50 

Jones. C. R., Bar., Hornellsville, N, Y 50 

Kimball, Mr. M. D,, M., 335 Commonwealth Ave,, Boston, Mass. . . 50 

Munger, Mrs. J. S,, B., 5412 Washington Ave., Chicago, 111 50 

Randolph, M. F,, N. C, 180 West Twenty-ninth St,, New York. . 5 o 

Seymour, Mr. P., K, 15a N. Walnut St., East Orange, N. J. . . . so 

Talbot, Marion, B., Chicago University, Chicago, 111 50 

Tetlow, Mrs, John, .ff,, 51 Cedar St., Roxbury, Mass 50 

Woodward, h- J,, M. I. T., 29 Copeland St 50 

Total J80 o 



MEMBERS FROM COLLEGES WHO HAVE PAID 
FOR THE YEAR i8g2-'93. 

BIrtwell, Mr, C. W., //., 24 Clinton St., Cambridgeport, Mass, , . . 5 00 

Hamilton, Mr. H. D , Col., 261 Broadway, New York J 5 00 

Sheaver, Mr. G. H., P., Preparatory School, Princeton, N. J, . . . 5 00 



. - *4:£MBERS. 

.^r Mass $5 oo 

5 oo 

5 oo 

5 «o 

5 oo 

5 oo 

. . \ .'.-k 5 oo 

. N. 50 oo 

.V 5 00 

^ V Mass 5 00 

5 00 

^; New York 5 00 

. •.s.Iiinglon, D. C. . . . 5 00 

5 00 

. >^* '.^»uisiana 5 00 

5 00 

10 00 

\..vv.oh, Conn 5 00 

"< . New York 5 00 

^^ \^.v York 5 00 

5 00 

^*i*j.. • • • • • • • ■ S 00 

xi New York 5 00 

.oil Hill, St. Louis, Mo. . 5 00 

»0!»ion 5 00 

,* »vv \.^range, X. J 5 00 

V . c . lirookline, Mass. ... 5 00 

5 00 

. . . Koston 5 00 

>s^»inerville, Mass 5 00 

5 00 

s,., \\>rk 5 00 

. >:asc Orange, N.J 5 00 

.. . N J 5 00 

. NY 5 00 

c. Mass 5 00 

^ /'.i-'^jcN. J 5 00 

.e. N.J 5 00 

.-. .1. Oonn 5 00 

. I Ov>nn 5 00 

.'. New Yt^rk 5 00 

5 00 

^ X-. New York 5 00 

. ..-,. .» '. 5 00 

5 00 

V S: . Uoston 5 00 

• .v.* 5 00 

V .-s 5 00 

\'. »>s. 5 00 

S:.. New York .... 500 

5 00 

^ N N. i".'.i. Mass 5 00 



^ 



Xi"» 



N » 




Endicott, Mrs. Wm. ^A, 165 Beacon St., Boston {50 

Ferry, S, P., Dana Hall, Wellesley, Mass 50 

Fish. M. L., Torringtou, Conn 50 

Fitz, Emma, asj Commonwealth Ave.. Boston ......... 50 

Flint, M. L., Adams St. Quincy. Mass 30 

Fowler, Miss, Cascadilla, Ithaca. N. V 30 

Fox, Hannahi 339 South Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa 50 

Freeman, H. £■, 37 Union Park. Boston 50 

French, Mrs. M.E. W„ Holly. Orleans Co.. N.Y 50 

A Friend, 395 

Prisbee, Mrs. E. S,,WeIlaCollege, Aurora, N. Y 50 

Gage. Miss, Ithaca, N. Y 50 

Gale, E. N. 59 Ridge St., Orange, N. J 50 

Gillett L. D.,Westfield. Mass 50 

Girdwood, Jessie, 4 Dunreath St., Roxbury, Mass 50 

Goldthwait, Mr. Joel, Hotel Victoria, Boston 50 

Goldtbwait Mrs. Joel, Hotel Victoria, Boston 100 

Gotthold, Mrs. Fred., The Barcelona, 165 West 58th St., New York 5 o 

Graham, C- R., 17a Cleveland St., Orange, N. J 50 

Hallowell, L. M., West Medford, Mass 50 

Hammond, Mrs. G. W., 360 Clarendon St., Boston - - . 50 

Hardy, Susan, 30 Chestnut St., Boston 30 

Har\'ey, Mr. W. S., 146 N. Front St., Philadelphia, Pa 50 

Henry, Esther, 5 Haynea St.. West Hartford, Conn 50 

Hinckley, Mrs. S. B , ijS Chestnut St., Chelsea, Mass 50 

Hoadley, Olivia, Englewood, N. J. . 50 

Hodgkins, I,, M., Auburndale, Mass 5 □ 

Hoe, Laura, 17 East Thirty-sixth St .New York 30 

Hopkins, Mrs. E. J, 76 Elm St., Northampton, Mass 35 

Howe, M. A. DeW., Jr., Youlk's Companton Office, Boston, Mass. . 5 o 

Howe, R.D., Women's Medical College, Philadelphia, Pa 50 

Howe, Mrs. T. B 50 

Howell, Mrs. T. D., The Dakota, West Seventy-second St., New 

York 50 

Howland. Mrs. Joseph. 97 Rhode Island Ave., Newport, R. 1. . . . 50 

Hull. Miss, East Bu£&lo St., Ithaca, N. Y. , '. . . . 5 Oi 

Huntington, Mrs. C. W.. a Nesmith St., Lowell, Mass 50 

Huntington. Mary, 206 Broadway. Norwich, Conn 50 

Jackson, Mrs. C. C, iSi Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass. ... 30 

Jackson, Mrs. J. H., Wilmington, Del 50 

Jackson, M. M-. " " SO 

Johnson, Maude, Mansion House, Milford, Mass 50 

Kane, The Misses, 23 West Forty-seventh SL, New York , . . . . :o o 

Kehew, Mrs. W. B..317 Beacon St., Boston, Mass 30 

Kelsey, C. H., ai Clinton St.. East Orange. N. J 30 

Kelsey, Mrs. C. H., ai Clinton St., East Orange. N. J 50 

Kilham, Mra. L. H., 246 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 10 o 

Kimball, Mrs. D. P., 48 Commonwealth Ave., Boston ...... 35 o 

Kimball, H. P.. 325 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 50 

Kimball. Mrs. M. D., 325 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 50 

Kimball, S. D., 325 Commonwealth Ave.. Boston 30 

Kneeland, Mrs. J. H., 339 West Seventy-fourth St.. New York . . 50 

Ladd, Mrs. W. G., 155 West Fifly-eighth St., New York 50 

I^athrop, J, C, Rockford, 111 30 

Liehtenstein, Nellie, 32t West Fifty-seventh St., New York ... 25 

Life, Mra J.,Rye. N. Y. . . . 50 

Lincoln. Bertha, 53 State St.. Boston 50 

Lincoln. Mrs. Solomon, 53 State St., Boston 50 

Loomis, Mr. J. H., Attica. Wyoming Co., N. Y 50 

Loomis, Mrs. J. H., Attica, WyomingCo., N. Y 50 

Lord, Mrs. P. B., Lawrence, L. 1 5 <> 



4 



NON-CU 

Abbott, Mrs. Kdwarrl, 
AimeB, Harriet, Sw.i::- 
Andetson, M«. W. U.. 
Arnold, E. SI.. 244 Muli: 
Barney, Mr. Newton, r.,i 
Barnev, SIis. Ncwtoti, [ 
Billings, Blizalicth, 371^ 
Billings, Laura, 279 M . 
Blair, Mrs. D. C, So M 
Blonchard, Mrs H. S. 
Blood, Mrs. V. t. ,. ~ 
Bolles, Mrs. M. I-'., | 
Bradshaw, Mrs. M. 
Brooks, F. M. 
Broolcs, M. E., Iloiili 
Brooks, M. H., 1, "" 
Brooks, Mis. S. ; 
Brown, A. V. V. , 
Brown. Mrs. J. C , j* 
Brown, M. M , 3b tl. 
Call, A. P., i6ATlin] 
Capron, C. D„ 41 Wi 
Carpenter, Agnew. 54 _^^ 
Carpenter, Mrs. G. O., Russt. 
Case, M. R , lao Commonv. 
Chandler, Mre.A. D., 19 Hi; 
Channing, Mrs. Walter, Cb 
Cbase, E I,-, 71 Pinekne>- 
Coolidge, Ise., 114 Con 
Cowles, Dr. Edwud, Mi 
Crafis, M. E., 304 Berkei 
Cnshing, Ethel, 95 Rivine 
Cushing, Mrs. G. W. B., 5< 
Dana, E. E., 163 South St. 
Davenport, Mis. Ira, Both, 
DdVis, L. G., Branchtown, 
Denny, B. G., Upland Rot 
Douglas, Mrs. Benj , Uewe> 
Douglas, Mrs. R. D., 30 Hig. 
Dunham, Mary, ig Prospect 
Dunham, Sarah, 19 Prospeci 
Dutton. Mr, E. P., 34 West . 
Dutton, airs. Horace, Auburn- 
Dutton, MiB. Julia, 24 West F' 
Duttoa, Dr. J. 51., 250 Newbii 
Dutton M. S., Aubumdale. S 
Dwight, Mrs. Edmund, 191 J! 
Eastman, Jean nelte. Newtoni 
Eastman, Julia, Dana Hall, n 
EaBtman, S. P., Dana Hall, W 
Edgell. Mrs. G. S., 41 Bast T» 
Elmer, Edith, Rahway, N. J. 
Einmerton. Mrs, G. K., 338 F- 




Watrons, Mrs. Charles • |5 oo 

Welch, Mrs. P. N., 13X Sherman Ave., New Haven, Conn 5 00 

Wheeler, B. P., 45 William St., New York 10 00 

Wheeler, Mrs. E. S., 486 Prospect St , New Haven, Conn 5 00 

Whitney, Elinor, Boylston St., Brooldine, Mass 5 00 

Whitney. Mrs.. H. M. " « " " 5 00 

Whitney, Laura, « •' " " 5 00 

Whitney, Rnth, " **^ " ** 5 00 

Whittemore, Mrs. A. S , 39 Brattle St, Cambridge, Mass. 15 00 

Whittlesey, Mrs. E. B., 137 East Fifteenth St., New York .... 5 00 

Whitwell, M. H., 98 Chestnut St., Boston 5 00 

Williams, Mrs. G. G. 28 Prospect St., Hartford Conn 5 00 

Williams, Harriet, 18 Adams St., Somerville, Mass 5 00 

Williams, Helen, 241 Broadway, Norwich, Conn 5 00 

Willetts, Mrs. Howard, 7 West Fifty-third St, New York .... 5 00 

Wilmarth, Birs. H. D., Jamaica Plain, Mass. . 5 00 

Wister, B^. Jones, Cleurkson Ave., Germantown, Pa 5 00 

Wolcott, Mrs. H. L- T., 51 Eliot St., Dedham, Mass 5 00 

Wolcott, Mrs. Roger, 173 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 5 00 

Wood. Mrs. A. L H., 102 Williams St., Norwich, Conn 5 00 

Woods, Lucy, 415 Boylston St., Boston, for Sunday-school Class at 

Trinity Oiurch 10 00 

Wright, Mrs. L- E-, Amherst, Mass 5 00 

|i,472 50 



NON-COLLEGIATE MEMBERS PAYING FOR 

THE YEAR i892-'93. 

Bixter, Mrs. E. S., 11 Broad St., New London, Conn |io 00 

Blake, Henrietta, 128 West Fifty-ninth St., New York 5 00 

Brownell, M. A., 322 West Fifty-sixth St., New York 5 00 

Cady, Mr. J. C, 126 East Thirty-ninth St., New York 5 00 

Cady, Mrs. J. C, 126 East Thirty-ninth St , New York 5 00 

De Gra£fenried. Clare, Department of Labor, Washington, D. C. . 5 00 

Edgell, Mrs. G. S., 41 East Thirty-eighth St., New York 5 00 

Engle, E. A., IVansfer Department, Wanamaker's, Chestnut and 

ThirteenUi Sts., Philadelphia 5 00 

French, Blrs. M. E. W., HoUey, Orleans Co., N. Y 5 00 

Hoe, Laura, 17 East Thirty-sixth St., New York 500 

Jones, Mrs. W. F., 42 Paradise Road, Northampton, Mass 5 00 

La Monte, A. L.» Rye Seminary, Rye, N. Y 5 00 

Lyman, M. C, Dwight PI., Englewood, N. J 5 00 

McKee, Mrs. Joseph, 214 Prospect St., East Orange, N. J 5 00 

Merriam, Mrs. R. C, 620 Worthington St., Springfield, Mass. ... 5 00 

Morris, Mrs. E-, Hartford, Vt 5 00 

Porter, Charlotte, 141 High St., Springfield, Mass 5 00 

Van Brunt, A. E-, 282 West Seventy-first St., New York 5 00 

Weeks, M. A., 27 West Sixty-first St., New York 5 00 

Wells, Mr. H. H., Jr., Wilkes-Barre, Pa 5 00 

I105 00 



29 



DONATIONS TO THE ASSOCIATION xSgi-'ga. 

Conrad, Mr. H. v., North Tarr>'town,N.Y $5 oo 

Cook, Mrs. Albert S., 139 Blm St, New Haven, Conn 5 00 

Gait, G. McP., Princeton, N.J 5 00 

Hubbeurd, Maty T. (proceeds of entertainment), Greenwich, Conn. 10 65 

Hurlburt, M. F. , Pelham Manor, N. Y 5 00 

Janes, M. O., 109 East Seventeenth St, New York 2 00 

Randolph, M.F., 180 West Fifty-ninth St, New York 500 

Scudder, Mrs. C. W., Linden Place, Brookline, Mass 5 00 

Ticknor, A. K., 41 Marlborough St., Boston 20 00 

Through Mrs. H. L. Scudder 20 

Van Alen, M. H., Watsontown, Pa. 5 00 

Watrous, Mrs. Charles 5 00 

Wood, Mabel, ftSo St Mark's Ave., Brooklyn, N.Y 1000 

182 85 



DONATIONS FOR THE NEW YORK SETTLEMENT, BEFORE 
SEPTEMBER I, 1892, NOT FORWARDED. 

Acknowledged in report of N. Y. Treasurer $20 00 

A Friend 5 00 

$2S 00 



30 



SUMMARY OF YEAR S INCOME. 

WSI#I«KSI«BY College Subscription |i85 oo 

Alumnae ** 450 00 

$635 00 

Smith College Subscription 158 50 

Alumnse ** 464 67 

Vassar College Subscription 112 50 

Alumnae ** 353 00 

Bryn Mawr College Subscription 156 00 

Alumnae " 91 50 

Thb Annex College Subscription 55 00 

Alumnae " 80 00 



623 17 



465 50 



247 50 



Wnui^S College Subscription ...... 30 00 

Alumnae " 90 00 

PackkR Coz,i36IATS \ College Subscription 10 00 

Institute j Alumnae " 100 00 



CORNEU* College Subscription 20 00 

Alumnae ** 80 00 



SwARTHMORE College Subscription . . * * * 40 00 

Alumnae ** 65 00 



135 00 



120 00 



no 00 



100 00 



105 00 



Other Colle^^es 85 00 

Non-CoUegiate 1,472 50 

Donations 82 85 

|4,i8i 52 



MEMBERS PAYING FOR THE YEAR iSgo-'gi. 

Bliss. Miss |5 00 

Jordan, M. A.* Aubumdale, Mass 5 00 

Kilham, Mrs. L' H., 246 Commonwealth Ave, Boston 1000 

Lathrop, E* B., 469 Franklin St., Buffalo, N. Y 5 00 

Safford, A. W., 69 Schermerhom St., Brooklyn, N. Y 5 00 

Steele, C L-, Middlebury, Vt 5 00 

Waring, M. K., 335 Clinton Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y 5 00 

$40 00 

CORNELIA WARREN, 

Treasurer, 



31 



SETTLEMENT. 



-•:: >. j< been one of quiet, 

..vays spontaneous and 

- isT-rl^pment no new dis- 

.^ .i::i work have shown 

^ ': ive been brought out 

-V :' Tv.ost consistent with 

'.:: :"c*w immediate results, 

: u< to think that much 

x*I for will be attained. 

X -.ve still take our stand 

.*ie::i and ourselves, but 

N lines are drawn ; all 

. .*ie most well-to-do, the 

"Cjr of many generations. 



. x^*:i a two-fold one. The 

*.i.e grown in strength and 

i longer, more intimate 

i:id the work itself has 

■.".th new branches, show- 

,c.i:er part of the regular 
. jlubs. The most hope- 
Mve been able to give the 
'.o the hands of the mem- 

^ .^i' their clubs, and conse- 

. lied a pride in their own 
i; of their clubs has made 
'.cy in turn have improved 
\a.< been a noticeable one. 

\ » -». have been doing some 

-,*:dying civil government, 
•^.' • meetings various of the 

.V Vv^k Legislature during 

'v-'vuil assistants in many 

V sense of responsibility 

r.o interested in main- 

.'\o Settlement. One of 

. ' V ;r was a lecture on the 

. * j^iven under the aus- 

•. .' e ihoir invited friends, 

•v ^c*vos. A step forward 
*'.oir own accord, listen 



quietly and attentively to a serious lecture. No new clubs for 
boys have been organized this past year, but we hope soon to 
have one in which the members shall be a little younger than 
any now enrolled, so that our work with the boys, which is most 
efective in the clubs, may begin at an earlier age. 

The Choral Club has been a most satisfactory one. It is 
under the charge of a thorough musician, and the boys, instead 
of spending the time iu informal singing, have become engaged 
in the real work of learning how to read music, and how to use 
the voice. Thus the club has an educational value it had not 
before. 

One of the bright successes of the year has been the women's 
club called the Home Improvement Club. Most of its mem- 
bers are the mothers of the club children, and the fact that both 
the mothers and children have this interest in the Settlement 
makes the bond with us a family one. The women's club and 
the little Rosebuds meet the same afternoon, and often have the 
pleasure of enjoying the social and musical programme of 
their meetings together. The Home Improvement Club ex- 
plains its purpose by its name. Their weekly meetings, with 
the animated discussions on practical subjects, the friendly chat 
over a cup of coffee, and the little musicale afterward, have 
become a social event at the Settlement. For some time we 
have striven in various ways to have the mothers come to the 
house, but were only slightly successful, until the organiza- 
tion of this club. 

Our Penny Provident Bank still continues to be popular. 
There are from fifty to seventy -five depositors each evening out 
of an enrollment of about five hundred. The single deposits 
usually vary from a penny to two dollars. The Library has 
not grown in numbers, as we already had as many members as 
could be accommodated if the plan was continued of allowing 
them to remain iu the house to play games after the exchange 
of books. This plan seemed desirable, as this is the only 
opportunity we have of meeting socially with some of the boys 
and girls, so we have felt obliged to turn away many applicants 
for membership. During the year there were 404 members 
enrolled. The great majority remain from year to year, the 
usual reason for withdrawal being change of residence, so we 
feel that their interest in the library is a real and permanent 
one. It is gratifying to see how the pleasure of the book is 
oftentimes shared with the family at home. "We all read this 
book, my father, mother and sister," said one boy. " I can't 
stop to play games to-night. They are waiting for me to come 
home with this new book," "My brother knows stories 
enough to make a big book. He tells them to all of 
us. He gets them from the 'Libraries' (library books)," 
said one little fellow. So one boy, whose head might 
otherwise have been empty, or filled with evil thoughts, 
has good thoughts, good pictures, in his mind because 
of his library book, and shares them with his companions. 



I 



r7^ 



There are 1900 volumes in the Librar>-. Last year tLe 
number drawn out was about ten thousand. It may be of 
interest to mention those most frequently read. The 
girls' favorite books are Miss Alcotfs and Mrs. Whitney's 
stories, the Gypsy Breynton books, Sarah Crewe, Little Lord 
Fauntleroy, and Historic Girls. The boys' favorite books 
are the bound volumes of Harper's Young People and the St. 
Nicholas, the United States histories, Boys of '61 and "76, 
lives of Washington, Lincoln and Grant, Boy Travelers, 
Arabian Nights, and Robinson Crusoe. Although the 
central library at the Settlement has not increased in member- 
ship, the establishment of Home Libraries has added to the 
number of those using our books, A little bookcase containing 
twenty or thirty books, together with a few games, is put in 
the room of one of the tenement houses, for the use of the 
tenants and of those in the near neighborhood. The Home 
Libraries are opened one afternoon of the week, and have been 
in charge of outside helpers, who used the time in various ways 
for the amusement and instruction of the children. In this way 
the influence of the library has extended into places where 
otherwise it would not have gone. There are six of these 
libraries, one on Willett street, one on Cherry street, one on 
Mulberry street, one on Chryatie street, and two iti the Norfolk 
Street School. From these two latter we receive especially 
encouraging news. As there are but twenty books and 
probably seventy children in the room, the privilege of drawing 
a book is used as a reward for good conduct or scholarship. 
Oftentimes the book is made the subject of a school composi- 
tion. We are able to put into these little libraries at the 
school, when the children read under guidance of teachers, 
books of an instructive nature. Another adjunct to the library 
has been the Circulating Game Closet, from which games are 
taken home by the children for a week at a time. We have 
learned that these games have kept the children home in the 
evening, and have made it a pleasure for brothers and sisters to 
stay in together. 

On Sunday afternoons throughout the year the "Good 
Seeds" have met. They are the little children, Jewish and 
Christian, who crowd eagerly into the house at half-past two, 
to sing and to listen to a story. Later in the afternoon our 
Vesper services are held, and here, too, Protestant and Roman 
Catholic, Jew and Gentile, sit side-by-side? and in the singing 
of hymns and in responsive readings worship the one God, 
During the winter we were able to give practical assistance to 
the Methodist Church, our next door neighbor. Their evening 
service consisted of a short sermon, followed by stereopticon 
pictures illustrating the Bible, The minister was exceedingly 
anxious to have the galleries thrown freely open to the chil- 
dren, who clamored to come in. This, however, involved the 
serious question of how to maintain order, and after four 
months of comparative failure we were invited to come in and 
34 



help the one in charge. This, with the help of some friends, 
we were able to do, and it was interesting to see bow quickly 
the four or five hundred restless and noisy children became 
attentive and quiet under the influence of a little sympathy 
and friendly discipline. 

The Wood-carving Class and Kitchen Garden or Little 
Housekeepers' Class were new features of the work last year. 
There were twelve boys in the Wood-carving Class, and they 
were given a three months" course of instruction, one lesson 
each week. Afterward the class was continued in fortnightly 
lessons for the five or six boys who showed some ability and 
who felt a real interest in the work. The Kitchen Garden Class 
was cotuposed of twelve little girls. They were greatly pleased 
with their little lessons, and derived much benefit from them. 
Both of these classes were conducted by teachers from the 
outside. 

During the summer time, beside the parties that went to our 
house in Katonah, we sent little parties for a two weeks' stay 
to the Robins' Nest in Tarrytown, as we had also done through- 
out the winter, by invitation of a circle of the King's Daughters. 
The Robins' Nest is a little home opened and supported bj 
them, and in charge of a matron who gives a mother's care to 
the children. We were grateful for the privilege extended us 
of sending some of our little friends there as guests. There were 
also several large day excursions arranged for, so that some of 
our neighbors who were unable to make a longer visit, had at 
least one day's reprieve from the heat of the city, a little bit 
of pure country air. The flowers that are sent to the Settlement 
in the summer, and indeed at every season of the year, are a great 
delight. They are always keenly appreciated, fondly treasured. 

The plan mentioned in our last report of having a Sunday 
home at Katonah was carried out this last year, with many of 
the results we hoped to attain. The little parties of five or six 
boys or girls who went to the Katonah house during the fell, 
winter, and spring, thoroughly enjoyed the visit, and the resi- 
dents who went with them felt that the personal friendship 
between their young friends and themselves grew warmer and 
Stronger from this Sunday spent together in the quiet country. 
The boys and girls learned to know the country in some season 
of the year other than the summer. They saw the beauty of 
autumn foliage, thepurity of snow on country soil, the new life 
of spring lime, and these symbols of spiritual things viewed 
with true pleasure and interest, had an unconscious influence 
upon their soul life. 

There have been several entertainments at the Settlement 
throughout the year, given by our friends from the outside, for 
the club and library members and for their guests. They have 
consisted of music and recitations, and have been of an excel- 
lent order. We have learned that our young people can appre- 
ciate the best, and that it is worth while always to give them the 
best. 



fl 



Although th^m was tto regtdar class in Social Science this 

Sit Y««u> th^r^ wi»?e l(^:tares from time to time for the resi- 
ktH auvl for such of thdx fri^ids as were interested in Settle- 
m^ut work, or iu work allied to it. George Gunton gave a 
s^ri^^ of l^^tur^ ou IScooomics ; Mr. Charles Dudley Warner, 
u lecture ou l^is^n Reform ; Mr. Hamilton Mabie, on the 
Kutui'« Commou wealth ; Mr. W. M. P. Round, on Bumham 
Knim ; aud Mr. Thomas G. Shearman, on Single Tax. 

*rh^ public bathsi at the Settlement have been given up. 
Th^ir lack, c^* hygienic conditions as to ventilation was such 
an to make thin seem prudent. The bath-rooms could not be 
vthci wiiii? placujd iu the house, and the expense of fitting up 
u^w oact^ iu .^omc other building was greater than the commit- 
tw thought wise to incur, especially as there is not now the 
.*««4mc u^H^xSsity for them as formerly. Since the establishment 
of our baths two years ago several have been opened in the near 
ugighboihood, the people* s baths on Broome street, the public 
b^tuji at th<? Stautou Street Church, and others. 

U has be^u folt for some time that the Settlement accommo- 
vUtiouA w^re not sufficient for the work grown to its present 
:^^, So, in addition, another smaller house across the street 
has b^n rented. Already a kindergarten has been opened 
thv!(<$, and it is needless to say that this will greatly increase 
thvi usefulness of the Settlement' s work. The enlarged quarters 
, will enable us to extend our work along certain desired lines, 

Bach year, the College Settlement, like any hospitable home 
ds^where, becomes a more potent influence in the lives of the 
vvsid^nts and of their neighbors. To us life in this home has 
brought the knowledge that true refinement is not a matter of 
^UQAtion alone. It often comes through the chastening influ- 
\mpo of deep life experiences, for we have found it in our 
neighbors, showing itself in acts of delicate consideration for 
^v^h other, in acts of tender sympathy for the sick, the suffer- 
ing and the deformed, a refinement of feeling, such as education 
aua wealth, with all they bring, cannot create. There is often 
a ti:u9 spkitual beauty in the lives that seem poor and sordid. 
$lvxuik^thxug is accomplished by the Settlement if we can give to 
vx\u friends, more fortunate than these our neighbors, a truer 
isiva of their pc^rer brethren. Even at the end of these three 
\v*V^si W^ ^^ sometimes asked why we do not wear a uniform 
vvC ^wuxc Xiud to save us from annoyances ; but the Children who 
,vvivv4 about us are our best protection, and there are and have 
\\ \ u us^ sUsa^rceable encounters. We may come and go on 
\U\ ^Vvvvi ^\ auv hour of the evening, if necessary, in perfect 

\\\ \\U\^ U-vvv> UvvhI at the Settlement, even for a short time, 
\x\\\jAVVU\ VUv kvcavU.Y of the life and its sure helpfulness to 
On> ws^H^hvv-* \Vv^ oa\u\ot but trust, with a faith that becomes a 
\vvUv^. \UaS SUv^ Uvv\\^ h<vs lHM?n reciprocal, that as we have received, 
^\v \n^\V \\v ^hvv^^- WV know that a firm friendship with 
>^\\^ swW'^v^^^^^ i^^^^ ^^'^'^^ formed, strengthened by frequent 

36 



t 



companionship and by the sharing of common experiences. 
Upon this homely friendship as a basis we build our work, the 
whole structure resting upon our knowledge of the oneness of 
human nature, our belief that God's best is the inheritance ot 
all His sons on earth. 



A Schedule of the more definite work of the Settlement is 
given heiow, with the number of Residents in charge of each 
club, and a brief statement of the purposes of the different 



I 



M, — One Sunday- School Class. One resident. 
M.^One Sunday-School Class. One residenL 
to 3.30 P. M.^Good Seed Society. Two outside workers ; 

denla. Sixty boys and girls from five to twelve years old. Hymns 

and stories. 
S p. M. — Vesper Service. All the reaideuts. Fifty boys and girls. 



4 



MONDAY. 

3.30 to g p. M, — Rosebud Club. Two residents ; one outside worker. 
Twenty girls, from six to ten years old. Sewing, gymnastics, sing* 
ing and games. 

7 to 8 P. M. — Penny Provident Fund Bank. Two residents. From fifty 

to one hundred children. 

8 to 10 P. M. — Occasional lectures. 

TUESDAY. 

3.30 to 3 p. M. — Rainbow Club. Two residents. Twenty girls, tram ten 

to fourteen years old. Sewing, singing, gymnastics and games. 
7 to 8 p. M.— Penny Provident Fund Bank. 

7 to g p. M —A. O. V. Club, Three residents. Thirty girls, from fourteen 

to seventeen years old. Cooking, dressmaking and gymnastics. 

8 to 10 p. M.— P. O. C. Club. One resident ; one outside worker. Talks 

and debates on political questions, singing and games. 
8 to 930 p. M. — Reading Room, One resident. 

WEDNESDAY. 

3 to 5 p. M. — Library. All the residents ; one outside worker. Two hun- 
dred boys and girls, fiiim ten to fourteen years old. Exchange of 
books and games. 

7 to 8 P. M. — Penny Provident Fund Bank. 

8 to g.30 P. M. — Reading Room, as on Tuesday. 

7 to 9 P. M.— Library. -All the residents. One outside worker. Two 
hundred boys and girls, from fourteen to eighteen years old. fix- 
change of books ; games. 

7.3010 8,30 P. M. — Wood-carving Class. One outside worker. 



THURSDAY. 

3 to 5 p. M. — Wbmen's Home Improyement Club. One outside worker ; 
one resident. Twenty women. Talks and discussions on practical 
subjects, light refreslunents, music and conversation. 
3-30 to 5.30 p. M. — Rosebud Club, as on Monday. 
7 to 8 p. M. — Penny Provident Fund Bank, 
to 9 p. M. — A. O. V. Club. Business meeting, talks, singing and games, 
to 9.30 p. M. — Reading Room. 

FRIDAY. 



I 



9 A. M. to 6 p. M — General Reception Day for any who feels an interest 
in the Settlement. 

7 to 8 p. M. — Penny Provident Fund Bank. 

7.30 to 9.30 p. M. — Knights of the Round Table. Two residents ; one 
outside worker. Twenty boys, thirteen to seventeen years old. 
Business meeting, talks, singing, games. 

8 to 9.30 p. M. — Reading Room. 

SATURDAY. 

io A. M. to 3 P. M. — Yard Day. One resident ; outside workers. Two 

hundred little children, forty each hour, 
ao to 11.30 A. M. — Kitchen Garden Class. One paid teacher. Twelve 

little girls. 
3.30 to 5 P. M. — Rainbow Club, as on Tuesday. 

7 to 8 P. M. — Penny Provident Ftmd Bank. 

7.30 to 9.30 p. M.— Hero Club. One resident ; one outside worker. Six- 
teen boys, fourteen to eighteen years old. Business meeting, talks, 
music and games. 

8 to 9 p. M. — ^The Young Keystones. One resident and one outside 

worker. Ten boys, ten to fourteen years old. Talks on history ; 
music. 



3« 



tJMMER HOMK OF TH 
NEW YORK SETTLEMENT. 

The Summer Home of the Settlement was again at Katonah, 
a little village among the New York hills. We had the same 
house that we had last year, and to which small parties had 
come ill the fall and spring. Asmanyofthosewho came this 
summer had already enjoyed the hospitality of the place, 
the experience this year was that of coming back home to 
known joys and a sure happiness. There was not the excite- 
ment of new discovery but even better was the familiarity 
with country living and a certain sense of possession, of 
being a part of this natural, simple life. The immediate 
inquiry after old friends, the pleased recognition of old land- 
marks, showed the natural thought of those returning home 
after the winter's absence. The cordial neighborliness of the 
townspeople also helped to make our family feel one with them,' 
sharers in the common village life. 

The house was open from July 5th to September loth, and re- 
ceived as guests one hundred and seven young people, varying 
in age from six to twenty-one. They came in parties of about 
twenty which together with the helpers made the family usually 
number twenty -four. The length of the visits was nearly two 
weeks. With the exception of the last, the parties represented 
the Settlement Clubs, the Rosebuds being our first guests ; then 
the A. O. V.'s; then members of all the clubs for boys; 
then the Rainbows ; last, a group belonging to no club, but 
having affiliations with the Settlement through friends or 
through the library. It was noticeable that these last were the 
only ones who ever referred to the Settlement as a "Mission." 
To the rest, who knew it better, it was simply the home of their 
friends, a place where light and joy and sunshine abounded, 
and a constantly talked about source of happiness. 

Our amusements were such as naturally belong to country 
summers : boating, bathing, walking, reading, sewing, driv- 
ing, formed our staple entertainments. There was an after- 
noon of horseback riding for two of the clubs ; a drive to Sing 
Sing and a visit to the prison when the boys were with us ; a 
picnic with the Presbyterian Sunday School at Lake Mahopac ; 
a picnic at Rockweir ; evening entertainments at home ; and a 
grand base-ball match in which our boys played against a vil- 
lage nine. The weather especially favored us, so that we lived 
out of doors, having nearly all our meals under the trees and 
going under cover only to sleep. There were but two days of 
rain the entire Summer, and those two days were almost the 
busiest and happiest of all, with scrap-books, and sewing, and; 



te 

^ 1 




REPORT ON RESIDENTS. 

During the year 1891-92 there has been a great increase ii 
the number of applicants for residence at 95 Rivington streetiJ 
Uore than eighty applications have been received during thci'| 
year. Many of these it has been necessary to refuse, as t 
house cannot be crowded beyond a certain point. 

The number of residents has been twenty, and the average ' 
length of stay four months. These figures it will be seen are 
identical with those of last year, but the number of "'visitors," 
that is, of persons staying in the house for less than four weeks, 
has more than doubled. It has not seemed wise to publish so 
cumbersome a list, but it should, be borne in mind that the work- 
ing force of the Settlement has been greatly increased through- 
out the year by such aid. ^^11 

The fact that twelve of the residents during 1891-^2 were ^^H^ 
also residents during the previous year will readily show that ^^^| 
the third year of the New York Settlement lias certainly beeti^^^f 
its best in point of the efBciency of its workers. ^^^| 

RESIDENTS, SEPT. i, 1891. TO SEPT r, 1893. ^^M 

Mies Alice E. Anlhon:^. B, M., '89 April a to July rt^^^H 

Misa Blizabeth Bainbridge. S., '85 . . May 3 to Aug. 13. "^^^^ 

M«. Lillian W. Belts Oct. i to Oct 39. 

Miss May U, Browti May a to June 27. 

Miss Ethel Cnsbinu Jan. g to June 7. 

Dr. Mary B. Damon, Wei., -86 {j^g/toWpt"'-""^ 

MissJeanG. Fine. S., '83 (Head-Worker) Sept. i to July I. 

Misa Julia H. George, Harvard Annex July 7 to Aug. it. 

Dr. Caroline F. Hamilton, S , 'Sj May i to May 31. 

M„.H.me,M.I,.„gMn 1 St ,"s'4°,?"i' "" 

Hiss Lina Lawrence, B. M., '89 Jan. 19 to May 3. 

■ Miss Ella B. Lucas . .* July g to Aug. 16. 

Mifis Mary R. Mason Oct. 15 to Mar. 31. 

Miss Fannie W. McLean, CaL. '85 (Ast Head-Worker), Oct. i to Mar, 15. 

Mias Caroline S. McMuitrie, Wei Noy. i to May i . 

Miss Alice M. Mills, S., '84 SepL i6 to Oct. 31. 

Miss Elizabeth D. Robbins Mar. la to July 6. 1; 

Dr. Jane E. Robbins, S.. '83 June 16 to July 14.^^^ 

Hiss Hellen C. Swezey, S. , 'S5 Nov. 30 to Jan. ^S-^^^H 

Miss Margaret P. Waterman June 33 to Aug. iS^^^^H 

RESIDENTS AT SUMMER HOME. ^^^ 

Miss Emily E. Briggs, W., '92 . , Aug. 15 to Sept. 11. 

Miss Addle Griswold Sept. 3 to Sept 12, 

Mis. Florence Y. Humphries, C, '88 June 23 to Sept. 3. 

Miss Harriet M. Johnson, C Aug. 15 to Aug. 17. 

Bi..Eii»b=u,D.Robbi.. {Ki.5,V£?,";r'' 

Dr. Jaue E. Robbins Aug. 3 to Aug. 13. 

Miss Frances M. Tyler, S„ '84 July 4 to July 30. 

Helen R.^nd Thayer. 

Portsmouth, N. H., Sept. i, iSgj. 

41 



to 

CO 



I 






?3 






I 



OS 



00 

o 



O COmCO mm dlHMM 






00 O »QO •OO 

^ IH M M M 



Oh 

X 



•a 

o 



c 

:l 

' SO 

. a 

.8 



4> 



^ ^ y G 



• a 
-.2 

•c 



e 



S -* o .52 



O) 



CO 

d 
o 

a 
•5: 

3 

OS 




§• 



c 



5 2* 

o o o <s»^ ;^»^ 




I** 

NO 

OS 

M 

O 



•O 

s 



8 8 



M NO 



% § 



CO 



_ « M 



NO 
M 

NO 



ONO 



NO 10 



S 



e 

o 

•? 

OS 

m 
lip 



•o 

M 

00 

•o 



o 

NO 



8 

•o 







5 

a 



2 — « _ 

O U O 



> 



'si 







42 



SSSs 



s.ss?l asssRJssss 



■3 ■ 

■•8.: 






511 



'^ V 3; .a 



! 



■ils,lli 



-si - 



3 ^^1 I M^ y i 






AT 



52 






. . . . f 7 o> 
N.. \i*» Y.->rk ... 30 (X> 
HarturC Conn. . . 52 57 

10 oc> 

3 00 

-> •-..•••.:. NY 39 CO 

^ , . v- N Y 5 00 

(h ^ -: ^^v vark 20 00 

S5 Co p- ...rk 170 00 

H « C . -t;. 70 CO 

W ^ r; ■ 5 o.> 

►4 .§ • 25 cx> 

t; j§ -■ ' °° 

rj ft( >■ 20 00 

S5 »,. .....irr.:! J«>ifwYork . roo oo 

o^ _^-!l jft;. New York . lo oo 

^ ^^ V 2 00 

P< "S ■ *^.,. ^:.* New York ... 75 00 

O I •' " ^ i?r/v.k:vn, N. Y. . . . 5 00 

>* S -..^rnfefcnsie, N. Y. . . . 5 0(» 

^ 700 

5 00 

100 00 

100 00 



pel :? K 47 26 

M "^ •■«;.^^.jit.tli St, New York 40 00 

H S "^ " * 25 00 

. "^ * v-r Y.vk 25 00 

^ < - 25 00 

O ^ ^^:,f: 5t.. New York . . 60 00 

{h ^ " 5 00 

P^ -^ ^..htJ. ?:•. New York ... 5 00 

p ^ • C.ivF^^-.N.Y 300 

P^'iS 6000 

« ^ -— * I 00 

tn ^ 200 

rt "^ 

p g 

CO ^ 50 00 

W -g - ^ 9 00 

rt ? 10 00 

r-'-^s 100 

^5 , ^ Vf V York 50 00 

*"*'^ 'i-^r^ije. N. J 10 00 

• ^'''-.i ^re . Boston 165 00 

■•'•*'*" . 2 00 

. c: Boston, 60 00 

-- r.: ^ c oc» 

• ' 10 00 

' . \ 100 oc> 

. •• ■* ^ xewYork ... . 10 00 

• >--.-?''V«.yadelphia, Penna. ... 16 65 

- \.'v7wYork 250c 



10 00 

100 00 

2 00 

2 00 



Tf.. Nf^" 




Thrmi^ Miss C. S. McMuitcie, Newton, Mam. (45 g 

Miss Harriet P. Packer, 3 Grace Court, Brooklyn, N. Y 10 00 

Mre. Pease, Chico[>ee, Mass 5 00 

Miss A. Z. Potts ipicoicl, North Long Brancb, N.J , 7500 

Mr. C. H. Pray, Fullerton Ave., Moiitelair, N. J as 00 

Mre. A. V. PiUsifer, Manchester, Conn 5 00 

Miss Helen C. Rand, Westfield, Mass . 100 00 

Miss Jessie S. Rand, Westfield, Mass 25 00 

Miss Loaiae Rollins, 507 Madison Ave., New York 50 00 

Mia. M. J. Sibley 10 oo 

Miss V. D. Scudder, 250 Newbury St., Boston 5 00 I 

MissJ.D. Smith. Nyack,N.Y 200 

Miss A. L- Stephenson, Orange. N. J a 00 ' 

Miss Florence S. Sullivan, 40 East Fifty second St., New York . . ao 00 
Miss Emma P. Van Norden, 16 West Forty.eightli SL. New York 25 00 

Miss A. T. Van Santwood 1500 

Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. V 37 69 

Mrs. Joseph Walker, iiaEaslThirty-seventhSt.. New York . . . 500 

Mis. V. A. Wallace, Carthage. Mo ao oo 

Through Miss M. P. Waterman, Gorham, Maine 5 00 I 

Mrs, A. S- Whitlemore, Cambridge, Mass 50 00 ^^ 

Miss C. L. Williamson aj 00 " 

Hiss Annie S. Wyckoff, Woodhaven, N. Y 25 00 

(3422 17 

The New York Settlement owes thanks not only for the 
money which has come to us so generously but also for many 
other gifts. 

During the spring and summer great boxes of country flowers 
came to the house, aud even through the winter our friends did 
not forget that one of our pleasautest duties was the distribu- 
tion of flowers. Our beautiful " Brighthurst " window has been 
kept full of color and fragrance, and has been an untiring source 
of pleasure. Books and games have come to help in the library 
work, Christmas entertainments with charming presents were 
given to our Uttle girls' clubs, and hundreds of Christmas gifts 
came to us to pass on to others. 

We have had during the past year many new garments made 
by different branches of the Needlework Guild, and our 
doctor, has found homes where these garments were much 
needed. Through the private gifts of money which have come 
it has also been possible to supply drugs and sick room delica- 
cies in special cases. 

Again this year we thank our friends that we have been able 
to have a summer house, and that our ice-water faucet has not 
failed. We are particularly grateful to the friends who enabled 
us to keep our house at Katonah open during the fall and 
spring, and to have the great pleasure of Sunday in the country. 

■The $1700 set aside in our last report for the fitting up of 
new bath-rooms has been used in alterations and furnishings 
at 96 Rivington street. So many public baths had been opened 
near us that we felt that the money would be better invested 
in a free kindergarten, and in enlarged facilities for clubs and 
classes. Jean F. Spahr, 

Treasurer New York Settlement. 



6 

Higbee, Mrs. E. W., Northampton, Mass $500 

Holdship, Alice, 79 Lincoln Ave., Allegheny, Pa. 5 00 

Holmes, E. R., Monson, Mass 5 00 

Holt, Ellen, l>ke Forest, 111 5 00 

Hyde, A. C, 380 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 5 00 

Irwin, I. R., 47 Fifth Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa 5 00 

Jackson, A. B., 26 Quincy^ St., North Adams, Mass 5 00 

Johnson, E. F., Montclair, N. J. . . • 5 00 

Johnson, G. E., 105 Croton Ave., Sing Sing, N. Y 5 00 

Jones, Mrs. D. P., 2021 Third Ave., Minneapolis, Minn 5 00 

Keeler, Katherine, Wells College, Aurora, N. Y 5 00 

Kendall, Mrs. F. L., Las Cruces, New Mexico 500 

Kilbon, A. J., Lee, Mass. 2 50 

Kimball, M. S.; Portsmouth, N. H 5 00 

La Monte, A. L., Rye, N.Y. . 5 00 

Marble, Mrs C. F., 2 Freeland St., Worcester, Mass 5 00 

Mason, M. L., 164 W. Chester Park, Boston 5 00 

Matthews, Mrs. Shailer, Waterville, Maine 5 00 

Mead, K. L., 60 East Seventy-ninth St, New York 500 

Mead, S. B., 7 Granite St., New London, Conn 5 00 

Merriam, Mrs. Arthur, 91 Buckingham St., Springfield, Mass. . . 5 00 

Merriam, F. A., Farmington, Utah 5 00 

Miller, E. L., Napa City, Cal i 00 

Owen, A. L., 76 Marlborough St., Boston 5 00 

Paris, Mrs. F. N., 114 East Twenty-ninth St., New York . ... 5 00 

Rand, J. S.. Westfield, Mass 5 00 

Rice, Mrs. Charles, Kearney, Neb • . 5 00 

Rice, H. R. , Newton Centre, Mass . 5 00 

Richardson, C. L.,Ilion,N.Y 5 00 

Rogers, C. W., 246 Newbury St., Boston 5 00 

Rogers, M. G., 711 N. Main St., Elmira, N. Y 5 00 

Scribner, Ella, Tarrytown, N. Y 5 00 

Scudder, V. D., 250 Newbury St., Boston 5 00 

Sebring, E. G , Tarrytown, N. Y 5 00 

Seelye, A. H., Amherst. Mass. . 5 00 

Seelye, H. C, Northampton, Mass 5 00 

Sergeant, C. B. 82 Bridge St., Northampton, Mass 5 00 

Smith, M M., St. Catharine's Hall, Augusta, Me i 00 

Spahr, Mrs. C. B., 295 East Tenth St., New York 5 00 

Stetson, Jennie, Lakeville, Mass i 00 

Stevens, M. L., 26 Dexter St., Maiden, Mass 5 00 

Taft, Alice, Whitonsville, Mass 5 00 

Taylor, C. C, The Washington, Kansas City, Mo 5 00 

Thayer, Mrs. L. H., 122 State St., Portsmouth, N. H 5 00 

Tiemann, E. C, One Hundred and Twenty-seventh St. and Boule- 
vard, New York 5 00 

Tryon, E. C, 435 E. Main St., Batavia, N. Y 5 00 

Wallace, J. M., 2420 Harvey St., Omaha, Neb 500 

Washburn, C. S., Greenfield, Mass. ... 5 00 

Wheeler, B. E., Concord, Mass 5 00 

White, G. G., Tappan St., Brookline, Mass 5 00 

Williams, E. S., 220 North St., Buffalo, N.Y 500 

Wilson, N. F., 62 Walnut St., Natick, Mass 500 

Wolcott, C. A., Long Meadow, Mass 5 00 

Wolcott, C. G., '* " *' 5 00 



interest in working with the lower stratum of the poor, a 
stratum which requires more effort for the tangible good 
accomplished than is required in a higher one, and also requires 
more personal influence from the workers and greater prompt- 
ness in carrying through the wont. The want of these elements 
made the usual modes of volunteer workers, giving occasional 
time, unsubstantial, and made the committee in charge of the 
previous work there anxious to have the resident force which 
conld be supplied in no other way than by a Settlement. 

The house, which contains eleven rooms, is very cozy and 
compact ; down stairs there is a square hall, dining-room, 
parlor, and kitchen, opening into one another. The fittings of 
the house are very simple but very pretty, and the effect on 
entering the hall with its open staircase and coal grate and 
archway leading to the little parlor, in which is a pretty flower 
window, is most pleasing. For all its comfort and beauty— 
the pretty furniture, the bright pictures on the wall, the lovely 
flower window, which is a delight to the neighborhood — we are 
most grateful to many kind and interested friends, who made 
it possible for us to give expression to the idea lying at the 
heart of women's settlement work, that is, the placing of a real 
home, simple and attractive, in a neighborhood where true 
homes are rare. It was previously two tenement houses, and the 
effect its present aspect has upon its former occupants can best be 
describedin the words of one of them who said, "The change is 
like the change from nature to grace," while another said, "It 
was like a bit of heaven." It certainly is a great pleasure to 
some of the neighbors who enjoy looking in the low windows 
or across the Dutch door, when the upper half is swung open. 
Of course this proximity to the streets has its discomforts and 
disadvantages, but the residents have repeatedly said that it 
was a real heljf to live in such close contact with the neighbors. 

The comfort of the house is greatly enhanced by the Starr 
Garden which adjoins it. This garden is now owned by the 
City Park Association, and is opened daily under the care of a 
guardian for the free use of the people, and is always placed at 
our disposal ; there is a door opening upon it from our hall. 
On the other side of the garden lies George H. Stuart Memo- 
rial Church which, also, is practically at our disposal, and it is 
here that all of the classes are held ; it has a large Sunday- 
school room, a carpenter shop, a kitchen and a doctor's office. 
The Sunday-school room is also used as our library and assem- 
bly hall. 

On the ninth of April Miss McLean and Miss Mason, holding 
the respective positions of Head-Worker and Assistant, moved 
into the Settlement, intending to carry on the work established 
by the St. Mary Street Library Association and to increase it as 
opportunity and workers offered. 

The first work which demanded attention was the neighbor- 
ing public school, whose exceptional opportunities seemed not 
to be as fully appreciated by the children as they were by the 



I 



1 



w 



Settlement, and the Board cotBfriaiiied of enpty n 
ingly the residents constitnted tbemaelves into scbool-Tisitacs, 
maidng calls with the poipose of creanng an interest among tbe 
jNuents and secuiii^ ttew sdiolaxs as «^ as tbe more regnlar 
attendance of those alieady on the idQ. Iq cases where the 
genoine reason was lack of snitaUe clothing, work was given 
to the child that be might earn what was necessary. For 
some weeks the visits paid nombered twenty a dajr. Throngh 
these viats, extending £ir and near, the visitors sooght not only 
scholars, bat also to introdnce themselves to their neighbois 
and to tnd them welcome to the Settlement, and ctuefiy to the 
bank, which was opened every evening &om seven to eight 
o'clo^ in the vestitAiIe of the chnrch. Xo stnmger induce- 
ments to beconK depositors conld have been devised than tbe 
pictnie seen throngh the open door, of the Resident 
seated beneath the tmming gas jet, stuTOaoded by bankers, 
many of whom would stay for the hoar, joyfiil to do nothiag 
bnt bang aioond and get an occasonal word of encooragement 
or lebnke &om the ResidenL 

The bank is coodncted cm the stamp system, which is used 
ta New York and Boston, bat has jnst been started in Philadel' 
phia throogh the instigation of the Library Association. 
Immediately on its introdoctioc, the depositors increased 
steadily, bat when the Settlement ladies b«£ame the cashiers, 
increase was wcffiderfal, increasing in fonr-and-a-half 
months trom 103 to 374. The little ones not only hong abont 
the bank, bat all day they watched, like birds of prey, for some 
one to go in or oat of the Settlement ; a strong evidence of how 
nincfa joy a friendly word or tonch gave them, and the patience 
with which the Residents received their loo warm greetings 
was a lively {»oof of their good will towards men. 

The library is open every Saturday morning and every Wed- 
nesday evening in the hajl of the chnrch, the children coming 
and going at »nll, always being encouraged, however, to stay 
and play games or read. None can take books oat, except 
sabscribing members, the subscription being ten cents a year 
and fines charged for books damped or overdue. There aie 
about 1000 books in the library and 1 19 members. On Satur- 
day morning we have always had help from non-readeot 
workers, especially from Swarthmore, and their help was of 
great value. The students from Bryn Mawr help us regularly 
with the mid-week classes. We hope that we may have their 
hrfp and still other in the coining year. 

During library houis there is a happy little class u 
scrap-books, which they plan to cany to the hoefntals. 

Four nights a week the carpenter shop is open, when a class 
of eight boys is instructed in simple carpentry, making step- 
laddera. shelves, etc.. for private sale ; the boys themselves find 
the parchasers. and alter leimborsing the Settlement &>i the 
cost of materials used, retain the ptofiL 

Every morning, during the spring and early summer, the 




kitchen of the cooking school was open for the sale of simple 
dishes, in the making of which some girl had assisted, the idea 
being to interest the women, who were purchasers, in the 
making of nutritious food, and later, when more cooking classes 
are opened, they will be invited to join them. Last spring there 
was but one class in cooking, composed of seven older girls, but 
for the coming winter, a trained cook has been engaged, and 
there will be classes for all ages. This work is under the care 
of the Assistant Head-worker. There is an admission fee to 
all classes where anything like a trade is taught, as it is not felt 
advisable to give, all things involving a sacrifice being more 
truly valued. 

A number of classes were conducted by non-residents, which 
were of great value to the children and to the Headworker as 
well. 

There was a kitchen garden for fifteen little girls ranging 
from six to ten years of age ; this class was carried on all sum- 
mer ; also a natural science class of thirteen boys and girls, 
which was called the " Pollywog " class, because its formation 
was suggested by the lively interest some of the children took 
in the pollywogs which one of the residents brought to the 
Settlement, and gave away ; there was also a class in simple 
clay modeHng for little boys and girls. 

All the regular work just mentioned was carried on in the 
Stuart Memorial Church Building, while the Settlement home 
became a place for the more informal and social meetings with 
with our neighbors. We receive many visits from them. The 
boys and girls had their special evenings at the house for 
music, stories and games, and these evenings resulted in our 
better acquaintance with them and with their individual needs. 
On Sunday afternoons the tiny folks had an hour of singing 
and stories, and the evening was devoted to the older boys. 

What the young boys and girls in the St. Mary street neigh- 
borhood need most of all is work — good, steady, intelligent 
work. It is not lack of money which is tlie poverty that we 
most deplore, but lack of self-hood, that self-hood which comes 
from work and makes it a blessing even though it be a bitter 
struggle for existence. More pitiful than the sight of actual 
suffering and misery is the sight of grown boys and girls 
idling away their time on the street, indifferent to their poor 
surroundings, with no desire to work themselves up above 
them, happy in an idleness which means soul stagnation, their 
characters weakened so that they are liable to the contagion of 
all kinds of vice. The St. Mary Street Library workers have 
already been able to help many of these to live more indus- 
trious lives through their cooking classes, carpentry shop, 
etc., and the settlement has the same object in mind. Here 
and there a boy or girl has felt the pleasure, unlike all other 
pleasures, of creating with the mind and hand that which 
was not before, and that which was goodly to look npon, 
even though that something was but a loaf of well-baked 




I brea 




bread, a well-proportioned stepladder, or a little day-mod- 
eled apple. When once the boy or girl has felt this pleasure, 
something of that which inspires our great mechanics or 
our poets has become theirs, and the character tranaformatioa 
begins. Through their acquaiutauce with the Settlemeut home, 
through its attractiveness, through what is taught them directly 
or indirectly in the various classes, we hope to inspire them 
with a keener desire for better things, and to help them to 
acquire the industrious habits necessary for attainment. In this 
struggle to work for that which is worthy will come the devel- 
opment of character which is our ultimate object. Out of this- 
slruggle — in which they will need staunch friends to stand by 
them — will step forth first one and then another of these boys 
and girls, grown into industrious, God-loving men and women. 

Our summer arrangements, which looked at one time most 
hopeless, proved quite the contrary. When our two able 
workers were obliged to leave us, Miss Dora Freeman took the 
position of Head-worker for the summer months and Miss 
Cheney took charge of the Summer Home which was given for 
our use. 

The work in town was of course varied with the hot weather, 
but Miss Freeman's conviction is that it is most important that. 
the work should not be in any measure neglected at that season, 
which is the time of the greatest idleness and of the fewest 
resources and the idleness brings with it the natural evils. It is 
instruction, not pleasure, which these people need, very simple 
instruction to be sure — but something to occupy them. Miss 
Freeman had classes and meetings nearly every evening and 
no opportunity was neglected to bring the neighbors to the 
Settlement. 

The summer home at Devon, sixteen miles from Philadel- 
phia, was open for two months, receiving fifty-eight visitors in 
groups numbering from thirteen to seventeen persons, chiefly 
children, but mothers with their children were warmly wel- 
comed. It was very disheartening to find how difficult it was 
to get the parties together — a difficulty which, however, 
decreased perceptibly with each returning party. Indeed the 
negroes — and they were our chief guests — are too inconsequent 
to be relied upon, even in matters affecting their own pleasures ; 
but once there, no party cared to return to their homes. If we 
should again have a summer home to which to invite them, we 
shall not be likely to have any difficulty in securing guests. 
Those boys and girls learned much on their visits and the evi- 
dences of quiet influence and eagerness to do what was right 
was very touching, These children do not even know how to 
amuse themselves, the residents having to teach them even to 
play games, and here, as in all of our work, we found we 
did better when we handled but small numbers, endeavoring to 
touch the few on many sides rather than the many on but one 
side. 

It will be seen that our work thus far has been very irregular ; 



f[>r owing to the summer season's near approach at the time of 
lopeniirg, we looked forward to changing workers, and the school 
Tisiting occupied so much time that our small force was unable 
to carry on many classes — ^but in the retrospect, we feel that we 
have gained, not lost, by the unsettled character of our work, 
for the establishment of friendly rdlations has been more widely 
a&cted, and the residents have had more time to share the 
home life of their neighbors. The policy of the future will be 
much enlightened by this varied course, for each community 
must be studied in its own setting — and the work introduced 
carefully thought out. 

Philadelphia, October, 28, 1892. Hannah Fox. 



51 



12 

WELLS COLLEGE. 

F<iculty. 
Ketler, Katharine Piutti, Mrs. A. A. Smith, H. P. 

Undergraduates, 

Hillt, Miriam Morgan, E. P. 

Loomis» F. J. Walker, J. C. 

[partial MBMBBRSHIP8.] 

Barker, Mabel Joslin, M. S. 

Hrockunier, £. S. Kinne, A. M. 

Caldwell, M. E. Lawrence, E. C. 

Clou£:h, M. B. Rodgers, M. A. 

Corbm, Abby Scott, A. M. 

Dewing, Mary Seymour, L. E. 

Doyon, J. H. Smith, M. A. 

Dunham. E. V. C. Tracy. Clara 

Durfee, Edith Wagoner, L. M. 

Gardner, S. S. Weed, G. C. 

Hardee, G. N. Wilkinson, L. P. 

Hepburn, M. E. Williams, C. W. 

Hoskins, M. A. Wright, Margaret. 
Jenison, M. 

College Subscription — Full I30 00 

Partial 35 00 



(( (( 



I65 00 

Alumnce and Other Former Students, 

Alexander, M. R., Bridgeport, O I500 

Bellows, M. A., "The Jenkinson,** Spring St., Rochester, N. Y. . 5 00 

Carpenter, Mrs. E. L-, 70 Willow St., Minneapolis, Minn 5 00 

Chaise, Jessie, 31 Edmund Place, Detroit, Mich 5 00 

Cleveland, Mrs. Grover, 12 West Fifty-first St., New York .... 5 00 

Collier, Mra W. M., 29 William St, Auburn, N. Y 5 00 

Freeman, K. B., 1650 Sherman Ave., Denver, Col 5 00 

Fuller, Mrs. T. J. D., 4 Jackson Place, Washington, D. C 5 00 

Gardner, Martha, Bulkeley Square, New London, Conn 5 00 

Higgins, Mrs. J. D., Oswego, N. Y 5 00 

Loomis, J. E. , Attica, N. Y jo 00 

Morss, Marion, 607 W. Genesee St., Syracuse, N. Y 5 00 

Perkins, Alice, Oxford, N. Y 5 00 

Phillips, M. E., 344 Ridge Ave., A -legheny. Pa 500 

Robie, G. L., Navy Dep't, Washington, D. C 5 00 

Smith, J. J., Elizabeth, N.J 5 00 

Walker, H. B., Auburndale, Mass 5 00 

Welles, Virginia, Wyalusing, Bradford Co., Pa 5 00 

Williams, Mary, 55 Williams St., New London, Conn 500 

Wright, Euphemia, Riverside, San Bernardino Co., Cal 5 00 

I 105 00 
AUimuai vSubscription for the year i89i-*92 J5 00 






00 

•o 



1^1*5 






^M O I O CI d CI O^eo 









en 

a 
a; 

en 

O 

A 

a 

o 



O g ^ 9 



bo 




s «3 i §*^'§i 



L 



m 

.a 

u 










(0 



a; 

to 

a 






a; 






fOgg 



W 



& ■ 




8M Q lOQ lO 
NO O CI O {^ 



I 



00 m iom o 

H VO O CO I-" 



VO 

to 




53 



<:r:TLEMENT. 

-. ■ rcr.evi in Boston this com- 
. **..i>, however, just leased 
^ -vju-.vhat extensive repairs, 
-. r ..i.x'vi. but it is hoped that 
:.ie first of December. 
-^ -■: > on the outskirts of the 
-. >.M:h End. The street is 
V . vrllir.g houses, and much 
I: is not far from Broad- 
s'- .::'.: Boston, and is easily 

• /r.tes of electric cars. 

. -.".'ault of a head-v/orker, 
•^ .r\i Settlement, but in the 
•/. ;-y to make it feasible for 
\ O.ed to do so, to live to- 

.X. 'oods of the city. The first 
^•.i: this proved impracti- 

.^ . „**: the present house was 

^.v\"Os above the basement, a 

.v:'is for the most part. It 

. .\ which will probably be 

,^idents. Leaving one for 

. '.ev^ular residents, five of 

•..c jf these holds a Fellow^- 

*.v. and one is a director of a 

. ,\. \y undertake the responsi- 

. ^ . iiivl finances. Otherwise, 

.v- -M v>f the residents, the care 

.V The experimental cliar- 

.V >ut it has seemed an ex- 

' .• .circumstances. It seems 

•v ^^•'io. because the comniit- 

, ' •. vo .1 centre for clubs and 

• . r'.io residents will work 
^ .^ . ^ 'ivo among their neigh- 

.v». .*'.t' without undertaking 

-V .'*-* one best suited to the 
* v" .l-iVer considerably in a 




good many ways from those in New York, Chicago and Phila- 
delphia), may prove, in practice, to need to be modified, and 
i/dll be modified fireely, as experience may show is best. 

It is always unpleasant to speak about undone work, and 
particularly so in the case of the Boston Settlement, a thing 
so long planned and so long unrealized, but at least a start is 
now made and we are very happy to be able to report even so 
much. 

Emii^y G. Baxch, Secretary, 
October 21, 1892. 



REPORT OF THE WELLESLEY CHAPTER OF THE 
COLLEGE SETTLEMENT ASSOCIATION. 



The chapter consists of one hundred and ten members ; 
twenty-seven hold full membership, and eighty-three have 
joined in clubs. Regular meetings of the chapter have been 
held throughout the j^ear. In January, Miss Scudder told of 
her Christmas at the New York Settlement. In the winter 
Mrs. Thompson addressed all interested in College Settlement 
work ; and in June Miss Scudder told of the Philadelphia 
Settlement, and spoke of plans for a house in Boston. Several 
business meetings were also held, at which the various oflficers 
were elected. 

The first meeting of the chapter during the present college 
year was held on Wednesday, October 20. Miss Scudder spoke 
chiefly of the Boston Settlement, and announced that Miss 
Maud Mason, '91, held one of the fellowships. A suggestion 
was made by one of the members that the Wellesley Chapter 
furnish a room in the Boston house, to be used by the fellow or 
for other purposes. It was moved, seconded, and carried that 
a committee of three be appointed by the chair to visit the 
house and report on the needs, expenses, etc. A suggestion 
was also made that the chapter help in the furnishing of the 
house by contributing useful and fancy articles. Greater en- 
thusiasm is felt by the chapter for College Settlement work on 
account of the opportunittes for practical work offered by the 
Boston Settlement, and it is hoped that the new undertaking 
will meet with the hearty support and co-operation of all 
members of the college. 

Respectfully submitted, § 

Fi^ORENCK HooPES, Secretary, 

Wellesley College, October 25, 1892. 



55 



i6 

Redfield, Mrs. Henry, 666 Park Place, Elmira, N. Y | 2 50 

Rice, F. I,., 112 W. Church St, " " 100 

Robertson, Mrs. H. J , '* " 5 00 

Robinson, Mrs. G. M., 302 William St., " " 2 50 

Rose, Mrs. Stephen, 866 Magee St., •' " 5 00 

San borne, Mrs. L. W., 906 College Ave., " " i 00 

Say les, Mrs. H. H., 115 Main St., '* " 250 

Stevens, Mrs. W. M., 755 West Fourth St., Williamsport, Pa. . . i 00 

Taft, E. L., 313 Lake St., Klmira, N. Y 2 50 

Turner, Mrs. Robert, 419 W. Church St., Elmira, N. Y 5 00 

Van Ostrand, L. A., Weenah, Winnebago Co., Wis 250 

Waterhouse, M. E., Beaufort, S. C ... i 00 

Welles, Mrs. G. M., Big Flats, N. Y , 2 00 

Welles, Mrs. W. S., Hackensack, N. Y 5 00 

Wilbur, M. A., 1719 Fifteenth St., N. W., Washington, D. C. . . 5 00 

Wixon, Mrs. O. W., looi Hoffman St., Elmira, N. Y i 00 

$107 00 
Alumnae Subscription paid for the year i893-*94 . . $1 00 



MT. HOLYOKE COLLEGE. 

Faculty. 
Clapp, C. M. Cowles, L. F. Mead, Mrs. E. S. 

Undergraduates. 

Bond, Violet Harmon, H. B. 

Halsey, Anna Schwartz, Pauline 

Class of '93, Class of '94, Class of '95, 

Special Students. Z. 0. X. Society. Z. *. A. Society. 

College Subscriptions— Full I35 00 

Partial 45 co 



it (( 



|8o 00 
College Subscriptions paid for the year i893-'94 . . $90 00 

Alumnce and Other Former Students. 

Brown, Mrs. S. B., 718 Nostrand Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y $ 5 00 

Class of '92 . . . 10 00 

Dyer, Mrs. W. R., 40 Hancock St, Dorchester, Mass 5 00 

Evans, Mrs. Iv. S., Germantown, Pa e qq 

Gould, Annie, Box 1666, Portland, Me c 00 

Green, Iv. J., 402 North Thirty-eighth St., Philadelphia ....*. 500 
Shepard, Mrs. E. N., S. Orange, N. J ^ oo 

$40 00 



REPORT OF SMITH CHAPTER. 

The Smith Chapter of the College Settlements Association 
was formed February lo, 1892, with a membership of 51 : iS 
froni the Class of '92 ; 15 from the Class of '93 ; 9 from the 
Class of '94 ; 9 from the Class of '95. 

Miss Virginia D. I,ymaii, '93, was appointed treasurer. As 
sub-treasurers for that college year: Miss Wheeler, '92; Miss 
Morris, '93 ; Miss Whiton. '94 ; Miss Dutton, '95, were elected, 
and Miss Weeks as secretary. 

This year there are 69 members of the Chapter, making 34 
full members of the Association, The officers are as follows : 
Miss Lyman, treasurer. As sub-treasurers ; Miss Howe, '93; 
Miss Dustin, '94; Miss lies, '95; Miss Lane, '96. 

In one of the meetings, this year, an interesting account of 
the College Settlements' summer home was given. 

There are already eleven members from the entering class, 
and we are very hopeful that the Chapter will increase largely 
during the year. 

Eleanor H. Johnson, '94, 

Secrelary. 



REPORT OF THE BRVN MAWR CHAPTER OF THE 
COLLEGE SETTLEMENTS ASSOCIATION. 

On the Bryn Mawr list in the College Settlements report of 
last autumn (1891) there were seven undergraduates ; at the 
end of the college year we had fifty-six members, about one- 
third of our total number of undergraduates. 

This increase in membershipwaslargelydueto Miss Dudley, 
who spoke to the students and succeeded in thoroughly arous- 
ing their enthusiasm. 

Our main work last year was the formation of a Chapter. 
According to its constitution our officers are an elector, a treas- 
urer and a secretary. The elector, besides attending the meet- 
ings of the Electoral Board, is responsible for keeping up the 
interest of the students, and is bound to provide, at least once 
a year, speakers on College Settlements work. 

The essential feature in which our Chapter differs from that 
of Wellesley or Vassar is our system of membership. Instead 
of using the club method for those who are not full members, 
we have arranged that those who pay five dollars shall have 
five votes in our Chapter, and that those who pay less shall 
have a number of votes in proportion to the amount paid. 

We hope that this formal organization will do much to keep 
up the interest at Bryn Mawr, and thus far we feel decidedly 
encouraged as to its results. 

Bertha Haven Putnam, 



n 



xf ,>^ \'i^ll5 CHAPTER. 






^ . ^^^vaoKKH C'^^r and interest in College 
v«««Q«^%. ■»:< year, by the making of 
.^ ^»* ^X ^<trvMng of flowers to the Riv- 
V .>vi«^<u^ ^'►; Wells College have, at the 
.^ v^oMiu*<«i A Chapter of the College 
, vw. *»^^ * inroabership of thirty- three. 
' .45^ < '^sVMlS, President 
.^es^^K *i^^u\^ Secretary and Treasurer. 



i, .TC^uiization of a Chapter with 
il 3fcopes to establish a Chapter 




e of this organization sbdll be the COLLEGB SbttlhukNTs 
Association. 

II. — The abject of this AssociatJun aliall be tbe support and couttol of 
College Settlements for Women. 

Ill, — Any person may become member by paying an annual fee of 
five dollars, and will thereby be eHtilled to all the reports and publlca- 

rV. — Every College which has at least twenty representatives in tlie 
membetsbip of tlie Association shall ae entitled to two representatives oii 
its Electoral Board, one lo be elected by members of uie Association, 
who are graduates and former students of said college, the other by meni' 
beis who are undergraduates. The Electoral Board thus formed ahaU 
add to its number one woman to act as treasurer, and two women to rep*. 
resent the non-collegiate members of the Association. 

V. — The term of office on the Electoral Board shall be two yeara. 

VI.— Tbe officers of the Electotal Board shall consist of a President, 
General Secretary and Treasurer, who shall be elected at the annual 
spring meeting. At this time the Board shall also elect two from its mem- 
bership, who, with the President, General Secretary and Treasurer, M- 
ajicio, shall compose a Standing Committee. This committee shall have 
power to transact all necessacy business between the meetings of the 
Board, have chat^e of all publications issued by the Board, and in all 
ways care for the general interest of the Association, and shall offer a 
report of their work at each of the stated meetings of tbe Board. 

VII. — The Electorai Board shall hold an annual meeting during the 
spring months for the discussion ofthe interests of the Association, elec- 
tion of officers, appointment of Executive Committees, and apportion- 
ment of funds : also a meeting during the autumn months for hearing the 
reports of Executive Committees and providing for the publication of 
these reports. The furiher duties of the Electoral Board shall be to main- 
tain and extend interest in the Settlements among the Colleges and else- 
where, and to collect the annual fees, banding them to the Treasurer ap- 
pointed by the Electoral Board. 

VIII. ^ — The financial year shall begin September i. All subscriptions 
for the ensuing year shall be due during September and October. Fees 
of new members joining the Association after April i, may cover the 
dues for the year following. 

IX. — Special meetinKS of the Electoral Board may be held at the 
request of three members of the Board or of any Executive Committee. 

X.^Five members ofthe Electoral Board shall constitute a quorum for 
all purposes eicept the election of Executive Committees. For thia 
purpose absent members must send in their votes, and a majority vote 
of the entire Board is necessary to election. 

SI. — The Executive Committee for each Settlement shall consist of 
least three elective mejabers, and ex-offido, the Head- Worker of the ~ 
tlement. The committee shall add to its number one member. 

59 



t 



rn from members of the Associa- 
le ?*tt!ement. 

:».' *l:dll be a Cha'rman, a General 
. '.i: ± Treasurer. 

^ -.'^I'. \'C responsible for the entire 

. -.'.i. ■: ts. and shall control in whatever 

:' rtrsidents and the administration 

.vect a Head- Worker. They shall 

* nk, and submit this report at the 

A.' I. They shall .ilso <lraw up a Treas- 

xr : to the General Treasurer, and 

. !e autumn meetin^^ These reports, 

■^ all members of the Association. 

> or residence in a Settlement, pref- 



, ...v-.ulod or enlarged by a majority of 
X- *us;cd meetings of the 6oar(L 



>? 



\ 



22 

DONATIONS. 

(September i, 189210 September i, 1893.) 

Miss S. A. Bell, New York $500 

Mrs. William Fitch, 185 Church St., New Haven. Conn. 500 

Friend ... 15 00 

Mr. Griffitts M. Haffards, Fall River, Mass., 5 00 

Mrs. L. C. Hastings, Bay State House. Worcester, Mass 5 00 

Mrs. Alvah Hovey, Newton Centre, Mass 5 00 

Mrs. H. M. Laugiilin, 74 Carver St., Boston 125 00 

Mr. G. R. Lyman, Pasadina, Cal 5 co 

Miss M. h. Van Nortwick, Batavia, 111. 10 oii 

Miss Cornelia Warren, 67 Mt. Vernon St., Boston 200 00 

Mrs. S. A. Whitin, Whitinsville, Mass. 5 00 

Miss M. R. Willard, 8 Sylvan Ave., New Haven, Conn 5 00 

Mrs. Woodworth 1 00 

I391 00 



...FOURTH. 



ANNUAL REPORT 



College Settlements 
Association, 

From September i. 1892. to September i, 



L PBINTING AND LrraOGRAPaiNG CO, 

J»ti-U-45-<7 MBrkcl StttcL 



...FOURTH... 



ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



College Settlements 
Association, 



From September i. 1892, to September i, 1893. 



PRILADKLPRIA : 

AVIL PRINTING AND UTHOGRAPHING CO., 

3<H»-43S5-47 Market Street 

1894. 



COLLBOB. 



Swarthmore 



Elmira 



Mount Holyoke^ 



NoH' Collegiate f 



Associate 
Members 



NAMB and ADDB.BSS. 

Miss Caroline Biddle, S'more, 

Lansdowne, Pa. 
Miss Marie A. Kemp, S'more, '79, 

Swarthmore College, Swarthmore, Pa. 

Miss Mary Alice Knox, E., 

Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. 
Miss M. Katharine Jones, E. '85, 

Englewood, N.J. 

Mrs. Ellen Newton Shepard^ Mt. H. 

South Orange, New Jersey, 
Miss Bertha Terrill, '95, 

Mount Holyoke College, S. Hadley, Mass. 

f Miss Helen A. Benedict, 

I 10 West Fifty-nrst St., New York City, 

1 Mrs. Harriet Minot Laughlin, 

t 68 Marlborough St, Boston, Mass. 

Miss Cornelia Warren, 

67 Mt. Vernon St., Boston, 
Miss Vida D. Scudder, S. '84, 

93 Tyler St., Boston, Mass. 
Miss Ida Wood, V. '77, 

2038 Spring Garden St., Philadelphia, 
Miss Bertha Haven Putnam, B. M. '93, 

1503 Madison Ave., Baltimore, Md. 
Mrs. Adaline Emerson Thompson, W. '80, 

41 Chestnut St , East Orange, N.J. 



Tbrm of 
Okficb 

^XPIRBS. 

} *94. 
} '94. 

} '95. 
} '95. 

} *95. 
} '95. 

} *95. 
} '95. 

} '96. 
} '96. 
} '96. 
} *96. 
} '96^ 



STANDING COMMITTEE. 

Mrs. Adai^inb Embrson Thompson, Chairman, 

Miss Bbrtha Havkn Putnam. 

Miss Cornewa Warrbn, Treasurer, 

Mrs. Fi^orence Yost Humphries, Secretary, 

Miss Vida Button Scudder. 



COMMITTEE ON FEIvIvOWSHIPS. 

Miss Mary Awce Knox, Chairman, 

Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. 

Mrs. HEI.EN Rand Thayer, 

122 State St., Portsmouth, N. H. 

Miss Marian Tai^bot, 

Chicago University, Chicago, IlL 

Dr. Mary B. Damon, 

95 Rivington St. , New York City. 

Miss Bertha Haven Putnam, 

1503 Madison Ave., Baltimore. 

4 



NEW YORK SETTLEMENT. 
Mrs. Jean Fise Spahr, Chairman, 395 East Tenth St, New York City. J 
Miss Ewzabbts F. Johnson, General Secretary, 

80 Park St., Montclair, N.J. 

Miss Jessie S. Rand, Secretary on Residents Westfield, Mass. 

Miss Laura Billings, Treasurer . . 379 Madison Ave., NewYorkCity. 
Dr. Jane E. Robbins, Head Worker, 95 Rivington SL, New York City. 
Miss Grace darling 95 Rivington St., New York City. 



PHILADELPHIA SETTLEMENT, 

Mh. J. Rodman Paul, Chairman 903 Pine Street * 

Miss Susan p. Wharton, Secretary 910 Clinton Street. 

Miss Hannah Fox, Secretary on Residents . . 339 South Broad Street. 

Mr. Jones Wisteh, Treasurer 257 South Front Street. 

Miss Katharine Davis, Head Worker 617 St Mary StreeL 

Mias E. M. Kans - - 1014 Clinton Street, 

Miss Ida Wood 2038 Spring Garden Street. 

Miss Louisa G. Davis 1915 Spruce Street 

Mr, Rodman Wister 1014 Spruce Street 

Dr. Mary A. Johnson 617 St. Mary Street ■ 



BOSTON SETTLEMENT. 
Miss Katharine Coman, Chairman, 

Wellealey College. Wellesley, Mass. " 

Mrs. John T. Prince, Secretary . - 93 Tyler Street, Boston. 

Miss Emily Balch, Secretary on Residents, 

Prince Street, Jamaica Plain, Mass. 

Mrs. W. B. KEhew, Treasurer 317 Beacon Street, Boston. 

Miss Helena S. Dudley, Head Worker ... 93 Tyler Street, Boston. 

Miss Helen Cheever 93 Tyler Street, Boston. 

Miss Cornelia Warren' 67 Mt. Vernon Street, Boston. 



Applications for residence in the New York Settlement should be 
made to Miss Rand. Westfield, Mass. Board will not esceed J6.Q0. 

Application for residence in tlie Philadelphia Settlement should be 
made to Mias Fox, 339 South Broad St, Philadelphia. Board will not 
eiceed Js.oo. 

Applica.tians for residence in the Boston Settlement should be made to 
Miss BaLCH, Prince St, Jamaica Plain, Mass, Board will notcT-' ' "' oo. 









:c'v 



• •- 



•• !• <•. •■ 



I •• I 



« I ( • • ■ 



• • • • .^ • » • . a> a^ 



• 


• • • 


•-^l 


"WL-l 


% 


'h 


> t 


•:"x-.il 






% 


•••v"i:s 




•% 




. "^ .*v 




« 


*« 


* * *-. k 






« 


■ • • • 5 •• 



»< 



::tzni'i 






• « i 

« 4 



M • • 



.■ ll 4tlT]Osj>}i^:n: of 
•:-.r:atio!:-, in each 
.r.ts rliffL-r; but in 
:: a warni liuman 
universal brotlier- 




P Through the kindness of our friends we had a third fellow- ' 
1 ship to offer this year in addition to the two generously con- 
[ tinued by the former donors. These fellowships meet a distinct 
need and more than justify themselves. It could be wished 
there were twice as many. The Fellows for this year are Miss 
Isabel Eaton (Smith), Miss Ada Woolfolk (Wellesley), Miss 
Katharine Tannett Woods. 

Since the last report no new colleges have sent electors to 
the Board, but the interest has strengthened in those already 
members and almost every college has its local chapter, active 
. and helpful. The number of memberships has increased, 
although not quite so much as we could wish. This increase 
is shovro in the following table : 




sSSlf^^V 




ToTiLS. 1 


'91--9I 


'93-'93 


'9.-'9' 


■9'-'93 


'gi--V 


'9"-'9J 


Wellesley 




98 

!i 

16 
14 
20 
16 
15 
7 


66 

g 

17 
17 

1 


JO 

6 

4 
5 
13 
7 


43 
39 

51 
4" 
17 
13 
4 

"l 

9 


118 

"I 

27 
30 

20 

a8 
17 


109 

"i 

39 

34 

a8 

H 

3° 1 


Vwsar 




Wells 

Packer 

Cornell 

Swarthnore 

Ml. Holyoke 

Elmira 

Other Colleges : 

Amherst " 

1 Barnard 

■ Boston 




1 Columbia 

P Harvard 

1 Princeton 














546 
219 


M 




















"765 


S3.n 


As this represents a steady, if small, gain, we may feel 1 
encouraged. Vet, as we realize what the freedom and power of 
the Settlement mean to many dwellers in crowded court and 
tenement, we long for opportunity to strengthen and enlarge 
our work. .From another city has come a pressing call for a 
Settlement there and we are sorrowfully compelled to say to 
these anxious seekers: "Not yet." In these unhappy times 
when the workmen and his friends need all the help that a 
sincere friendship may proffer, our capacity for giving that help 
shotild be enlarged. We need more members for the Associa- 
tion ; we need the continual help of old members ; we d , 



inspiration of a constantly-growing enthusiasm in our colleges. 
With the increasing demands of three Settlements we need 
more workers, those who can give part of their time as well as 
those who give all. To this work we welcome not only 
college women, but any who are in sympathy with our aims ; 
who believe, as we do, with Miss Addams, that humanity is all 
one, and so believing, would try to know our brother. The 
Settlement is not a ** charity;** it is not a ** mission.** Those 
who come to us expecting to give all and receive nothing soon 
find their mistake for the help is mutual, and both we and our 
neighbors are richer for the new friendship and the new out- 
look. These are times when the so-called rich need the poor 
no less than the poor need the rich. Mutual knowledge and 
mutual confidence bom of a sharing of conditions and privileges 
may, perhaps, go a long way toward that reconciliation of 
classes desired of all. We believe the Settlement movement 
involves a principle ; how far-reaching, perhaps, no one can 
yet say. At least it has brought us nearer our brother, and is 
giving us a personal knowledge of each other* s difficulties, 
limitations, blessings. May the knowledge bear fruit in the 
time to come ! It is for this universal brotherhood, with all 
that it means of mutual obligation, that the Settlement stands. 

FiX)RENCE Y. Humphries, 

Secretary Electoral Board, 



8 



NEW YORK SETTLEMENT. 

EEPORT OF THE HEAD WOHKBB. 



In a report of our work, the first place should perhaps be 
given to the influence which the College Settlement exerts upon 
the residents and their friends. Many of us feel that the new 
conceptions of life we have gained are of far more worth than 
anything we have been able to give our neighbors. 

One cannot live verj' long on Rivington Street without real- 
izing that the people around us are entirely unconscious that 
there is supposed to be a chasm separating the classes from the 
masses, and we soon discover that in reality there is no such 
chasm. 

Many of us before coming here have tnown verj- little about 
working people, and it is with some surprise that we find our 
new friends just like ourselves, with the same characters and 
the same tastes. We do not read the same books, and our 
social forms are different, but the essentials, even in manners, 
are the same. 

We feel that we know h/e for the first time, and we find this 
larger world simply a reproduction of our former smaller world, 
except that it is richer in experience. 

Perhaps the greatest hindrance to our work lies in the in- 
grained idea of class superiority. Along with the talk ahout 
"the slums," there has crept into people's hearts a positive 
assurance that they are not as other men are. We sometimes 
find this feeling existing in our friends to so great a degree that 
we cannot depend upon them for common courtesy. It is not 
simply a lacx of imagiuatioUf it is a fundamental phariseeism, 
that permits a lady to ask in the presence of several of our 
club-boys, "Do you reach the very lowest people?" 

We find our neighbors often very accurate in their estimate 
of our work, and exceedingly tolerant of our mistakes. Avery 
thoughtful club-girl gave her estimate of up-town young ladies 
in these words, " It's because they do not know any better, and 
that's because they have never been brought up right." We 
value the College Settlement large!;- because it gives us a chance 
to " know t)etter." and we believe that it may help to bring a 
day, when the young people shall all be "brought up right." 

The constantly changing personnel of the settlement we be- 
lieve to be in some ways a help to our work. The transient 
residents can thus catch the spirit of the work, and carry it into 
ever widening circles. The club members enjoy having friends 
in many parts of the countrj', and their interests are broadened 
and miiltiplied. 



Our work with the children and young people has gone 

steadily onward. The club-rooms added this year have made 
it possible for us to do more for them than ever before, and they 
are with us every afternoon and evening. We attach each year 
a greater value to teaching the housewifely arts to the young 
girls, for we find that a lack of knowledge of the essentials of 
home-keeping is the cause of many of the discomforts of tene- 
ment house life. We try in every way to inspire in the girls a 
desire for better things. Both at our country house and at the 
settlement, the girls have a chance not only to see that our ways 
are those of a more fashionable world, but they are able also to 
understand clearly how our style of living resembles that of 
the goo4 housewives they have many of them seen in the 
tenement houses, and thus to see how it is possible for tbera to 
make changes in the home. 

The older clubs are, at times, more troublesome and less 
satisfactory than they would otherwise be, because they are 
self-managed. While we are, for this reason, prevented from 
choosing our own clientele, and while we meet other hindrances 
to our work, yet, on the whole, we believe that the greater 
interest iu the club, and the education which comes from self- 
goverument, more than compensate for these minor disadvan- 
tages. It is, we think, a wise arrangement that each of our 
clubs meets only on certain evenings, as the use of our rooms 
becomes then more of a privilege. 

Every day of work with the children brings its own reward, 
and there comes, also, in many cases, a time when we sud- 
denly perceive the cumulative effect of the work of the years 
before. Each year we know the boys and girls more intimately, 
and each year the list of our friends grows longer, until some 
of us now probably count our acquaintances by the thousands. 
During an average week in the winter, we estimate that nearly 
a thousand people come to us, and we, of course, reach many 
others in various ways. 

We are daily impressed with the power of companionship. 
Two deaf and dumb hoys come ofteu to see us, though we 
never converse except by occasional smiles to indicate our good 
fellowship. The younger boysignifi.es our house by making 
the motions necessarj' for violently ringing the front door-bell. 
We hope that be has obtained at least a vague idea that our 
constantly ringing door-bell suggests a wide-reaching and sin- 
cere hospitality. A human sympathy oflen seems to mean as 
much as more material help. One man in great trouble said, 
"They told me to come here, for they said, ' Those ladies will 
listen to yon anyway.' " 

The entertainments given by the club members have been 
much enjoyed, and we have at times lived quite a gay society 
life. The "Women's Home Improvement Club " has given a 
reception one evening in every month . Then the entire family 
of each member, the father, the grown children and the little 
ones, together entered into the evening's pleasure with much 



spirit. Through the kindness of outside frieuds we have had 
at these receptions fine music and good speaking, an intellec- 
tual treat for us all. In addition to our club work, our social 
life is largely made up of frequent neighborly visits, and occa- 
sional small dinner parties. Some of us have had the privilege 
of extending to our friends the hospitality of our own homes 
out of town, and our relatives have found these guests a pleas- 
ant and interesting addition to a more conventional life. 

It was unusually difficult this summer to find a country 
house, but after much trouble a suitable one was rented in 
Katouah, and it proved to be exceedingly pleasant. It was 
much larger than any bouse we have had before, and the sense 
of space it gave was a great point gained. The executive 
committee greatly desires that the association may be able to 
buy a country house in order to put the summer work on a 
more permanent and satisfactory basis. 

The club members, in parties of twenty, enjoyed a fortnight 
of beautiful country life, and we believe that this can become, 
more and more, a valuable part of our work. We rejoice that 
the word "view," which was formerly unknown to those 
about us, is fast becoming a part of the vocabulary of the 
neighborhood. 

Through the kindness of friends we were able to send many 
parties out into the " real country, where you can catch 
flowers," as one child said. The fondness of the children for 
flowers is really pathetic. Some loose rose leaves were thrown 
iuto an ash-barrel and later a most nnpoetic looking child was 
found picking them out, petal by petal. One child smelled an 
English violet for the first time and exclaimed in surprise, 
"Why, you've put cologne on it!" Civilization had taught 
him of cologne, but not a word as to the fragrance of a 
flower. 

We have often invited some of the mothers to go with the 
children on our day excursions. It seems natural that the 
mothers and children should have their pleasures in common, 
and where the children are alone they often exclaim regret- 
fully, " If my mother were only here ! " 

This summer two small furnished bouses at Glen Ridge, 
New Jersey, were offered to our Women's Home Improvement 
Club, and here the mothers and children went for a fortnight, 
the men joining them whenever it was possible. Each family 
managed its cottage according to its own ideas. It was an in- 
teresting experiment and proved very successful. Some of the 
women were enthusiastic in their delight in the country. We 
appreciate so highly the advantage of doing everything by 
families, that it is with great satisfaction we have made this 
new departure in fresh air work. We cannot say too much in 
praise of work which tends conntryward. The children gain 
the idea that some other life than this in New York is possible, 
and we see many families we think would profit by a return to 
the country for at least two generations. 



A co-operative dairy has been opened near us. The Neigh- 
borhood Guild has set aside a sum of money to iusure a suc- 
cessful begiuaiug to the dairy, and the College Settlement has 
assisted them iu their new enterprise. The dairy is the only 
store of its kind in New York City. Shares are sold for one 
dollar, and interest is paid upon them at six per cent. At the 
end of six months, any profits there may be are divided among 
the purchasing shareholders, in proportion to the amount of 
goods they have bought. The aim of the dairy is to teach the 
benefits of co-operation, and also to furnish pure milk and the 
best of eggs and butter at the lowest market prices. 

The College Settlement has come to stand for certain ideas 
in the minds of the neighbors. We represent the cliildren of 
Americans in a community where many would otherwise know 
only those of foreign-born parentage. Even our speech is dis- 
tinctive. One of our number was welcomed in a strange house 
by the words, "I knew you by your voice." She was per- 
sonally unknown, but was nevertheless promptly recognized 
as coming from the Settlement. One Bohemian woman we 
know began to study German as soon as she arrived in America, 
as German seemed to be the language of this country. The 
immigrants often come here with the most exalted idea of the 
American character. A young man told us of his disappoint- 
ment as he walked along the Bowery and said to himself, "So 
these are Americans." 

We represent education and comparative culture to a people 
who have had little chance for the intellectual life. We think 
no part of our knowledge too precious to be shared with those 
about us, and we hold a communism in intellectual acquire- 
ments to be one of the abiding principles of all Settlement 

It has been a great pleasure to see how that which is beauti- 
ful and fine appeals to the young people. When a choice of 
subjects was given to some working girls, one spoke for the 
group, as she answered, " Let's have some poetry, we have so 
little poetry in the daytime." 

We stand for fairness to the poor Jewish immigrants who 
have come among us in such hordes during these last years. 
One of our number took baby clothes to a poor Russian woman 
and on hearing that a Christian had sent them, she exclaimed 
in surprise, "I did not know Christs were so kind ! " We are 
glad to show the Russians a new kind of "Christ." 

We stand for temperance in a district where intemperance is 
a deadly evil. We have said very little on the subject, but there 
has been among many of the boys and girls themselves a grow- 
ing feeling that it is best not to drink even beer. 

The College Settlement offers a field of work to those of any 
creed, or of no creed, but as a family we have stood for church- 
going in a nou-church-going community. During the past 
winter the habit was formed of assembling in the parlor on Sun- 
day evenings, and then going together to church. A group of 



from ten to twenty boys was always ready to act as escort. We 

were often a miniature parliament of religions, but we never- 
theless found it possible to attend a church service in harmony, 

The good opinion of those about us is often a great stimulus. 
One faithful boy friend suggested as the opening sentence of a 
speech : " We have come to speak on the College Settlement ; 
we do more good than ten ministers." 

We appeal to our friends for real help in the Settlement work. 
There is not room for everyone here, but because we find the 
life pleasant and natural, we believe that with a little effort 
every cultured home could become a College Settlement. 



SUMMARY OF THE ORGANIZED WORK. 



The Rosebud Club. — Girls from six to ten years of age. - 
Sewing, gymnastics, singing and games. 

The Rainbow Club. — Girls from ten to fourteen years of 
age. Sewing, gymuitstics, singing and games. 

Sewing has been carefully taught, and the mothers are 
exceedingly anxious to have their children admitted to the 
privileges of these clubs. 

The Clan Alpine.— Boys from twelve to fourteen years of 
age. Stories, talks on famous Americans and on carrSnt topics, 
singing and games. 

The Good Seed Society. — (Sunday). Any child between 
the age of five and twelve. Stories with a lesson. Songs of 
a religions nature. 

The Penny Provident' Bank. — (Daily). The children's 
hour, when we receive deposits, talk together, tell stories and 
have a happy time. 

Yard Day. — (Saturday). The children to whom tickets 
have been given come in groups of thirty for an hour's play. 

Clashes for Children. 

A singing class. 

A wood-carving class. 

A kitchen-garden class. 

A drawing class. __ 

The Zither Club, — An entirely self-managed musical society 
of boys from twelve to eighteen years of age. 

The Young Keystones.— Boys and girls from fourteen to 
sixteen years of age. Discussions of current city politics, 
singing and games. 

, The Knights of the Round Table. — Boys from fourteen 
to eighteen years of age. Talks on current topics. Singing, 
games. 

The Hero Club. —Boys from sixteen to twenty years of age. 
Stories, talks, singing, dancing. 

;3 



I 



ind I 

:ets 

ety I 



H 



REPORT OF THE KINDERGARTEN. 



In the spring of 1892, the College Settlement of New York 
decided to open a free kindergarten the following autumn, 
using for this purpose the rooms at No. 96 Rivington street. 
It was thought wise to secure the co-operation of the New York 
Kindergarten Association, not only for the sake of the material 
aid, but also that the work might always be of high standard. 
The association consented to provide the salary of an assistant 
teacher, while the Settlement furnished everything else. The 
kindergarten opened September 29, in the home-like, sunny 
rooms of No. 96, with twelve children, from three to six 
years old. At first we gave the preference to the children 
coming from families already connected with the Settlement, 
then these children brought their little friends, and by Novem- 
ber we had forty-seven names on the roll. The rooms are not 
large enough to seat comfortably more than forty children. 

About one-half of the children are of German parentage, and 
the other half German and Russian Hebrews. To many of 
them English was entirely strange, and we could with difficulty 
make them understand us ; also, many of them did not know 
such familiar things as birds and trees, cows and sheep, never 
ha^-ing seen them, so that at first our progress was very slow. 
We found a happy road to their minds when we began to teach 
them through singing. They are all passionately fond of sing- 
ing, and they remember and are keenly interested in the things 
they sing about. The gestures made with the songs also helped 
them to understand the words. Besides showing them pictures 
and other representations of objects, we took them as often as 
possible to Central Park in the afternoon that they might for 
themselves see the things they were learning about. By the 
end of two months we began to see a great improvement in the 
children in general intelligence and power of attention. The 
day before Thanksgiving their parents weij invited to see them 
march with flags and to hear them sing their songs, and about 
thirty mothers came. They were delighted with the singing, 
and almost every one told us hoijv much the children sang at 
home and how eager they were to come to kindergarten, get- 
ting up at six o'clock in the morning so as uot to be late. One 
mother said, " The only amusement we have in the evenings 
is watching the children play the kindergarten games." 

After Thanksgiving the children began to make Christmas 
presents for their fathers and mothers, using their sewing and 
weaving to decorate boxes and calendars. We tried to make 
them feel that Christmas is for giving and not for receiving 
only. They became much interested in patting their pennies 
in a little bank, so that they might buy Christmas presents for 
some sick children. In all they saved $1.30, and some of them 
went with one of the teachers to buy the presents. This giving 
seemed to make a strong impression on them, so that they con- 
tinued it after Christmas. Our Christmas tree was a pretty 



sight. The mothers and older brothers and sisters came and 
sat around the circle of children, who first sang the Christmas 
carols and then distributed the gifts they had made. After- 
wards their faces grew very shining when they received the 
toys and candies which friends of the Settlement sent to them. 

After the holidays our work went on quietly, growing con- 
stantly more interesting, the children being so much more 
eager to learn and so much more skillful in using their fingers. 
They delighted in stories of Washington and of our country. 
They were much interested in learning about the trader, and 
especially in the farmer and all that belongs to country life. 
Some friends kindly gave us money to fit up the yard of No. 
96 as a garden and playground for the children. When spring 
came they planted seeds and watched the growing plants with 
intense interest. It was very pleasant to see that the many 
things about which they had learned through picture, song 
and talk seemed like old friends to them, when they saw the 
things themselves. All the year we tried to lead the children 
to feel that we all have one Father, and that we must live 
lovingly together. At first their hands were often raised ta 
strike offenders, but at the end of the year we seldom noticed 
any unkindness. 

Beside the regular kindergarten teaching, the teachers have 
tried to become well acquainted with the homes of the children. 
We have found all the mothers interested in what their chil- 
dren were learning and ready to help in every way. A Mothers' 
Club has met every two weeks throughout the school year. 
The average attendance was twelve, many being prevented 
from coming by work at home, or by not understanding Eng- 
lish. At the club meetings we sang the children's songs, that 
the mothers might sing them with the children at home, the 
teachers gave short lessons in kindergarten gifts and occupa- 
tions, and we had a social half-hour. Friends from outside 
frequently sang for u^, and this gave the members more pleas- 
ure than anything else. Books — English and German — ^were 
also given out. Whenever we invited the mothers especially 
to hear the children sing, thirty or forty were present. 

We look back with great pleasure upon this year of work. 
The children have grown very dear to us, and though twenty 
are to enter the public school in the autumn, they will still 
meet us twice a week at the Settlement so that we shall not 
lose sight of them. 

During the summer it was not possible for the little children 
to be entertained at the summer home at Katonah, but through 
the kindness of friends at Morristown, New Jersey, and through 
the Ethical Society, all had an opportunity to spend two weeks 
in the country. About thirty went, and brought back delight- 
ful accounts of all they had seen and enjoyed. 

Grack Darwng. 



16 



REPORT ON RESIDENTS. 



The work of the College Settlement, at 95 Rivington Street,n 
enlarges to such a degree each year that it is almost impossible 
to meet its needs. The cry from the neighborhood is always 
for more classes, more clubs, more friendliness, and conse- 
quently earnest, true-hearted workers are increasingly in de- 
mand. During the past year we have received much assistance 
in the organized work of the Settlement Irom our up-town 
friends who have given from two to four hours weekly to clubs 
and classes. We trust that even more of such helpers may 
come to us this year : but these cannot take the place of the 
resident workers. With the growth of the work the need 
becomes constantly more pressing for strong women, collegiate 
or non- collegiate, who for some portion of the year are willing 
to devote their entire time and strength to the work. 

Below is given the list of the residents for the year Sept. r, 
1892, to Sept. I, 1893. In additiou to these, during the ten 
weeks of the summer, there were three residents all the time at 
the Katonah house. 

MisB Mary M. Brewster July 1 to Sept. 1. 

Miss M, E. Bunce Mar. 1 to Mar. 30. 

Miss Ethel Cusliin^ Sept. 19 to June 9. 

Dr. M. B. Damon, Wei. 'S6 Sepl. i to Sept 1. 

Miss Grace Darling. Vas Sept. 15 to July 1. 

Miss Susan Hoyt livans, Vas. May 1 to June i. 

Miss Amy P. Hall (Asst Head Worker), . . Sepl. 1 to July r. 

Mi SB Elizabeth F. Job uson, S. Oct. 3 to Jan. 3. 

Miss Lida B. Jewell Oct. 29 to Dec 16. 

Miss Maud Mason, Wei. 'S9 Oct. 17 to Dec. 15. 

Miss Alice McChesncy, Cal Oct. 79 to May 5. 

Miss Fannie W. McLean, (Head Worker) . . Oct, 15 to July i. 

Miss Eliza D. Robbins Sepl. 1 to June i. 

Dr. Jane E. Robbins, S July 1 to Sept. 1. 

Miss Augusta F. Tappan June t to July I. 

Miss Elizabeth Trask Sept J? to July i. 

MissMaryTrask Ocl. 8 to July i. 

Miss Lillian B. Wald July 1 to Sept I. 

Miss Margaret Welles, Vas Nov. I to Dec. 6. 

Miss Charlotte A. Whitney, Wei. 'Sg . . . .Jan. 1 to Mar. 

CAROLINE McMURTRIE WELLES, 
Wilkes-Barre, Pa., Sept. i, 1B93. 



< — 



X 

X 



<• 
Z 



_9_ 



4. 

A. 



A. 



^ ^ ' .' 






k. ^ 



r. " 



. -r 






X. 









•^ T *. X r = 

• « ■ r t " -: "* 



C s C •• <•- 




15 

«2 



i8 



On 



es 

CO 



00 



s 






00 ON 

o «o 

cow 






o\ 



O O w^OO lO 
00 w M lo^ 



00 M ovo »o 

W CI M w 



M ONN0 VOQO 

M fO M 



00 O W «o O *ov5 

M lO VO VO 0\ Hi 



CO 

a 

00 

a 



. 3 

ON 



to 

W 
P< 
P 

M 

Q 
55 
W 

X 
Q 

< 

CO 

s 



.O 



bo 

2 



(0 

CO 

O 2 2 2 
^ O O w 



3 



bO 

a 



a 

08 

^co<S5 



•3 

a 
5 

08 

i4 



cd 
Si ^ 



-53 

.S3 



O 



o.S 

•g-a 




5^ 









cooco 



§ 
2 



I 



»4 
PQ 



ON 

VO 

8 

8^ 



ON 



«i 



•a 

s 

8 



19 



DONATIONS. 

Sept. I, 1892 to Sept. I, 1893. 



Auxiliary of Woman's Board of Missions, Easthampton, Mass., I13 00 

Billings, Miss Laura, 279 Madison Ave., New York City .... 370 00 

Boyd, Mrs. Robt., Montclair, N.J 5 00 

Barnard College Undergraduate Asst 24 00 

Bruce, Miss M. E., Middletown, Conn 5 00 

Brearley League, 17 West Forty-fourth St., New York City ... 75 00 

Betts, Mrs. L. W., 2 Middagh St., Brooklyn, N. Y 50 00 

Bowers, Miss., Brooklyn, N. Y 5 00 

Burtes, Miss M. P., Brooklyn, N. Y 5 00 

Brown, Mrs. Martha J., New York City . 5 00 

Carpenter, Miss Agnes, 54 East Fifty-seventh St., New York City, 10 00 

Clarke, Miss Ellen W., Norwich, Vermont 5 00 

Clemens, Mrs. Samuel, Hartford, Conn •••.... 4 25 

C. E. Society, Second Congregational Church, Greenwich, Conn. 5 00 

Congregational Church, East Orange, N. J 20 00 

Daniels, Winthrop M., Princeton, N. J 25 00 

Daniels, Miss S. E., 41 West Twenty-sixth 5 00 

Davenport, Mrs. Ira, 31 East Thirty-ninth 25 00 

Dike, Miss Florence B., 207 West Fifty-seventh 50 00 

Edgell, Mrs. Geo. D., 41 East Thirty-eighth 2500 

Emory, Miss C, Springfield, Mass 2 00 

Friend, a 500 

I 00 

60 00 



«« 



50 00 

** 10 00 

** 15 00 

5 00 

Friends ^ 60 30 

Fox, Miss, 339 South Broad St., Phila 5 00 

First Congregational S. School, Montclair, N.J 41 86 

Granger Place School, Canandaigua, N. Y 25 00 

Haflf, Miss, 60 West Eighty-third St 10 00 

Interrogation Club 48 00 

Johnson, Miss E., Montclair, N.J 5 00 

Julier, Miss, Englewood, N.J 5 00 

Jr. C. E. Society, First Congregational Church, Montclair, N. J., 5 00 

King's Daughters, Newton, N. J 3 75 

Knox, Miss, 88 West Washington Place, New York City .... 8 00 

Kilham, Miss E., 5 Livingston Place 10 00 

Lee, Miss Louise, 516 Fifth Avenue 5 00 

Mason, Miss M. R., 129 South Twelth St, Phila 46 25 

Morgan, Mrs. Pierrepont, 219 Madison Avenue, New York City . 100 00 

Ostram, Miss, 64 West Eighty-third St i 25 

Ostram, Mrs., " " ** 5 00 

20 



Potter, Miss B. C |5 oo 

Pratt, Miss, 64 West Eighty-third St 2 00 

Packer Institute, Brooklyn, N. Y 24 25 

Robbins, Miss E., Wetherfield, Conn 5 00 

Rand, Mr. A. C, New York City 25 00 

Smith, Mrs. Roswell, 611 Fifth Avenue, New York City .... 100 00 

Smith, Mrs. Mary B., 52 West Twelfth St 100 

Sunday School First Congregational Church, East Orange, N. J. 25 00 

Severance, Miss Gertrude 2 50 

Thayer, Mrs. H. R., Portsmouth, N. H 50 00 

Vermilye, Miss E. B. , Englewood, N. J 100 00 

Wheeler, Miss L., 15 East Forty-sixth 10 00 

Wells College, Aurora, N. Y 26 00 

Young Men's Bible Class, Cong. S. S., Montlair, N. J. . . . 20 00 

Total amount to September r, 1893 ;S 1,644 56 



2r 



newspapers espouse the popular cause and fill their columns 
with sensational misery ; when students, brought down in 
squads by their ardent educators to inspect the " slums," pene- 
trate with shocking curiosity into the most harrowing and hidden 
secrets of the miserable life of the poor. But it is one thing to 
bear ; it is one thing to inspect. It is quite another thing to 
live side by side with such conditions ; in a sense, to identify 
oneself with them ; to be as a neighbor among neighbors ; to 
hear day by day the stolid, terrible gossip of the street ; to take, 
as one insensibly comes to take, the point of view on matters 
moral and physical of people sleeping seven in a room. It is 
no longer the ' ' problem of the masses " that confronts one, but 
the suffering of the iudividual man or woman of like passions 
with ourselves. 

The race characteristics are shown in picturesque contrast 
from our windows. The Jews work very hard. Opposite us 
is a house where you can see a lamp burning all night. Near 
it are men's figures bending over a machine. It is a sweating 
shop, but so small that it does not come under the law, and 
cannot be "inspected." On the other side of the house is a 
court where the negroes live. Here work does not go on, 
or but very little of it, either by day or night, but many 
other things "go on" — most of all by night. During the 
hot summer nights there is scarcely an hour of quiet between 
the noise of the late revellers and that of the early work- 
men. 

Such was the region in which we found ourselves in residence. 
Already various lines of work had been inaugurated by the 
Settlement. Among them a branch of the Theodore Starr 
Penny Saving Bank, was in good condition, having 372 deposi- 
tors. There are now 631 depositors. The individual accounts 
never grow very large, but we have received during the year 
$391.09. Part of this was in our own care but a little while, 
only until enough was accumulated to buy an article of cloth- 
ing or to spend on a picnic. Some of the older people deposit 
their weekly savings, but most of our depiositors are children. 
Occasionally a large sum is brought to us ; once as much as 
$12.00 was left. 

The Circulating Library, which is of several years standing 
and contains S88 books, has been open throughout the year on 
Saturday mornings and on Monday and Wednesday evenings. 
Helpers from the neighboring churches came in the evenings 
and were very useful to us. With the assistance of such friends 
the plan of organizing the children who came on Saturday 
mornings into little classes was adopted. It was found that 
actual teaching was impracticable; the children came too 
irregularly and were too untrained to be held for a definite les- 
son. But definite teaching is not the chief help which these 
children of the street require. They have no better idea of per- 
sistence in play than in work, and if in the course of the winter 
they leam to "stick to " the same game for an hoi 



to "play fair" and to have regard foi the feelings and the 
shins of their companions, the teacher's efforts have not been 
wasted. Books, however, and not games, are the chief feature 
of the library. The Jewish boys and girls read a good deal ; 
they enjoy books of adventures, of travel and of history, whereas 
the colored boys are enthusiastic for Alger's thrilling romances. 
Some older men come quite regularly, and the women come, 
taking for the most part religious books, "Pilgrim's Progress" 
and Foster's " Story of the Bible " being prime favorites. The 
auTiual subscription is ten cents, and fines are charged for books 
lost, damaged or overdue. 

The record of the Carpenter Shop is one of quiet progress. 
It is open for ten months of the year, four evenings each 
week, under the care of a practical carpenter. The charge 
for lessons is fifteen cents per month, for four sessions each 
■week, or ten cents a month for two sessions each week, 
and the members are subject to a fine, not exceeding ten cents, 
for any misconduct. The boys make boxes, benche.s, book- 
shelves, step-ladders, etc., and sell them whenever they can, 
all profit going to the boy. During the year, seventy articles 
were made, of which some are still on hand. 

For several months the negro boys had military drill under 
a graduate of Hampton Institute. It was suspended in the 
summer, and the same boys were organized into a club which 
met weekly for reading and discussion, electing their own 
oflScers and conducting their business according to parliamen- 
tary rules. They also kept up their drill, and with the incen- 
tive of street parades, simple uniforms, badges and a banner, 
have grown to be a company thirty strong. The club feature 
has been excellent for them, developing their individual 
responsibility. We are rejoicing in their prospect for the 
coming winter, when they will be drilled weekly by 
two members of the Naval Reserve, who have offered their 
services. 

Other Classes. — For the white boys there was a club 
meeting weekly, under the charge of a gentleman and his wife. 
We have had but one club for little girls, it being a sewing 
class meeting on Thursday afternoon. 

Tuesday evenings we set apart as an "at home" for our 
women neighbors. They came in and sat about the wood fire 
enjoying with us its cheer and warmth, while listening to 
rnusic or to reading, but they are very shy about coming. 
Later in the winter concerts were given in onr hall on the same 
evening by volunteers, under the direction of a gentleman from 
the University of Pennsylvania. They were especially popular 
with the children, who besieged the door on " music nights," 
from six to eight o'clock, paying their penny for admission or 
.proudly presenting the ticket given them in reward for their 
regular attendance at school during the preceding week. Dur- 
ing the summer these concerts were discontinued, but have 
been resumed under the an-^pices of the Culture Extension 



r 



League. The atteudance is about 150 an evening, and the 
outlook is good. 

The winter being a cold one, there was much suffering, and 
even more than the usual demand for work to get money for 
coal. Through the kindness of our friends, we were able to 
give more or less employment, and in January started a sewing 
club for women, giving ont garments to be made at the rates 
customary in the Bureau of Charities. Even though we could 
help but a few, we were very grateful to do even this little, and 
it was a relief to ourselves as well as to the women. The women 
usually spent the afternoon with us in the church hall, they 
sewing while someone read aloud to them, and afterward we 
often had the mild comfort of a cup of tea. 

On Sunday afternoon the little children came to the house 
for vespers, and in the evenings the older boys gathered around 
the piano and sang hymns. The gradual improvement in 
manner was very hopeful. When we contrasted the first 
uproarious meetings, when caps and papers thickened the air, 
and chairs were used chiefly for gymnastics, with the later 
decorous meetings when, with increased numbers, the boys 
sat quietly for half an hour hsteniug to "Robert of Sidly," I 
or the "Story of Siegfried," we felt repaid for our first i 
uphill work. Responsive readings of the Psalms were also 4 
possible. 

The cooking school was open eleven months. Some 4 
classes forcookiug were formed, but the most satisfactory work j 
was done when the girls made food for sale in the shop, and j 
when the women came for simple lectures on articles of diet. J 
Several girls learned to make bread, and excellent bread it was j 
too ! 

The regular engagements above enumerated form but a small 
part of the Settlement activities. The informal offices of 
neigh borliness, such as taking a sick woman to the hospital, 
and seeing that proper care was taken of her children while she 
was away, or looking up schoolchildren who had played truant, 
of finding work and homes for yormg people, and conferring 
with men needing work ; such things were always with us, 
besides the almost constant exercise of hospitality to both ends 
of society, which was one of our pleasantest but also most 1 
absorbing occupations. J 

At Christmas time we gave ourselves up to the spirit of the 
season, and for more than a week shared our real home life with 
our neighbors. Twice a daj- during the week the fresh candles 
were lighted on the Christmas tree, and groups of children sat 
about it in speechless joy, lisieuing to geutle music or to the 
story of the Holy Child. "If a Settlement shows anything, 
it shows that the poor are ready to receive the best of art, the 
best of life. Shall it not be given them ? ' ' 

One of the most interesting features of our year, was the 
investigation carried on by the Fellow appointed by the 
College Settlement Association, who lived w'*'" from 



October to April. On account of Miss Shapleigh's scholarly 
work, she was requested by Professor Atwater to take the 
dietaries of some of the strange people on the Midway Plaisance 
at the World's Fair. 

Thus far we have dwelt upon the more personal side of our 
life among the people, but a Settlement ought to aim at much 
activity of a general and public character. It should seek to 
improve not only people but conditions, and in St. Mary street, 
where the salvation of the individuals under existing conditions 
seems almost impossible, such general work ought to be strongly 
emphasized. We must be sorrowfully conscious that during 
the last year we have accomplished very little ; yet in some few 
directions a Iwginning at least has been made. The Settlement 
is always most anxious to co-operate with the many agencies 
that exist for extending relief or achieving municipal reforms. 
Even within the past year various improvements have been 
initiated : the most evident of these, probably, is the repaving 
of St. Marj- street and the other small streets south of Pine. 
This marks a great gain in sanitary conditions. 

There is also a prospect of the enlargement of the Starr Gar- 
den. The councilmeii ot the district approved the plan brought 
to their notice by the Settlement committee, and reported the 
matter favorably to the City Council, which has condemned the 
property adjoining the park. The spirit of co-operation has 
been further shown by the city officials, especially the Board of 
Health and the Department of Public Safety. In April, the 
mayor and several well-known officials met some of the land- 
lords of the neighborhood at the Settlement to consider the 
improvement of sanitary conditions in the region. 

The Board of Education generously extended its educational 
work by putting a public kindergarten in the Stuart Memorial 
Church for July and August, in response to a petition sent from 
the Settlement. It is noteworthy that this was the first sum- 
mer kindergarten established by the city. It was so successful 
that it will be continued by the Board of Education during the 
winter. 

Much interest has been shown by our friends in the need of 
improved dwellings in the neighborhood. Indeed it seems as 
if people must only realize the present conditions, and the miser- 
able rookeries of Gillis alley and Lombard street would be 
replaced by decent houses. Several people have offered to 
invest in property near us, encouraged by Miss Hannah Fox's 
success along these lines. It is hoped that this year some of 
these plans may g«i into effect. A resident rent collector will 
bring the work into more vital connection with the Settlement. 

The problem of the unemployed in the midst of work was 
illustrated in our streets last winter. There was not one hour's 
work done on the street for about three months, and the ice and 
snow (carted from neighboring courts) was piled up in such 
fashion that often a carriage could not pass through the street. 
M''""*'"'(f, the men, usually employed in street cleaning, were 



'heir children were out of school because they i 
shoes, and their families were receiving rations of coal and 
groceries at the public expense ; and this occurs each year, not 
only in Philadelphia, but in many other cities, because although 
dirt and garbage can be carried away, snow and ice plus dirt 
■ and garbage, form a mixture which cannot be removed by any 
but the natural agencies of wind and sun. When a warm day 
came we were conscious that the fish and potato parings and 
other garbage in the snow pile, opposite our house, were being 
acted on by bacteria, thus being removed by still .another 
natural agency. 

In thinking over the experience of a year in St. Mary street, 
the old question of the real justification of a Settlement must 
suggest itself The social reforms that seemed to us most press- 
ing are the same which everyone is coming to recognize : the 
employment of the unemployed, industrial training, improved 
tenements and the perfection of methods of relief. All these 
can be reached without a Settlement. How then does the 
principle of residence, expensive in other ways besides money, 
justify itself? 

A Settlement can do little to solve the questions which per- 
plex our philanthropic specialists. It may be that the cause of 
the evils we seek to remedy is too deep for our palliatives. But 
whatever the cause of poverty, whatever the remedy, we all 
agree that we must have knowledge of facts. We must have 
a realization of things as they are, not derived from books and 
speeches, but from personal experience. Such direct and 
unforgetable knowledge a Settlement gives: "Oh no, I shall 
not go slumming " (horrible word). " I should never be com- 
fortable again," said an acquaintance of mine. If only we 
could be made uncomfortable enough, the preliminary work 
would be done. The lime may come when not only the idealist, 
but even the practical man living in his luxury will feel that 
the existence of ' ' slums, ' ' at however safe a distance, limits his 
enjoyment. Now, no one who has lived for even a few weeks 
in a Settlement can go back to a life of comfort, leisure, beautj', 
once more with the secure conviction that the Divine sanction 
rests on a state of society which divides men into two classes — 
the working people, stupefied by ten hours a day of toil, and 
the " leisure class," living improductively, however busily, on 
the proceeds of that toil. Strongest and most direct upon the 
residents, the influence of tliis experience reaches others 
through them, and the very house itself forms assuredly a not 
unimpressive protest against existing conditions in the minds 
of even its casual visitors. 

College Settlements do not stand for organized philanthropy 
of any kind. Charitable agencies need not to be multiplied, 
but to be strengthened. But in another way, besides arousing 
the comfortable to discomfort, settlements can move toward 
the ultimate and supreme need of the hour — the estabUshment 
of friendly and cordial relations between the alienat 




Tlu ]HN»r fiistrust the rich ; the rich miqodge the poor. How 
Clin it ln' Dthvrwisi*. when, apart from btisiness relations, the 
chii-f intiTomrMT ln-tween the dxsses is limited to the section 
needing rclictOn the cmc hand, and those through whom relief 
is cxtciitli-d cin the other ? No wonder that the poor think the 
rich hard, while the rich ver>' {generally condemn the poor as 
shiltU-^s. Are then the iHX>r where they are through their own 
fault ? Let tis reverse the question : Are the rich where 
tlu-y are through their own merit? In answering these 
<|uestions. let us not think of the individual, but of the class. 
In reality, the shiftless and inefficient form a small, a very small, 
]KT cent of the working-class. But the ordinary philanthropist 
meets as a rule only this per cent, the people who are worsted in 
the stru};>;le for life. This fact must, I think, be the reason that 
so many kindly ]x:rsons seem to regard all stifiering work- 
people as brought into their plight by bad management. How 
can we esca]H.' generalizing on so narrow a foundation ? How 
learn to know the genuine powers, character and attitude of 
that vast working-class in whose hands rests largely the civili- 
zation of the future ? How can they know ours ? How more 
easily and normally than by our placing the social centre of our 
life among them and identifying ourselves with them in natural, 
unofficial, daily intercourse? Our need is reciprocal, and it is 
living with the working-people, not working for them, that 
brings mutual knowledge and mutual help. 

There is an anecdote of world-wide fame, of a man who, 
going down to Jericho, fell among thieves. The Samaritan 
that bound up his wounds still remains our example of charity, 
since he gave *' adequate relief.** But must our good Samari- 
tan of the nineteenth centur>' remain of the same type ? Has 
he no responsibility in changing the conditions of the road 
leading down to Jericho ? Year after j'car in our tenement- 
house regions, conditions, absolutely crime-breeding, surrotmd 
tlie children. Still new generations gp-ow up with no training 
to fit them for usefulness, and, failing in strength and skill to 
support themselves, crowd our relief offices, our asylums and 
our prisons. Good Samaritans, in ever-increasing numbers, 
continue to devote themselves to caring for the poor, the sick, 
the criminal. But is there no way of setting a watch upon the 
road going down to Jericho, so that all may pass along in 
safety ? 

We cannot change the heart of man by legislation, and as 
long as it is full of wickedness we may expect him to do evil. 
By legislation, however, where the civic conscience is aroused, 
we can tear down unsanitary houses, we can have more parks, 
we can have kindergartens and industrial training schools, 
libraries and museums. Work can be furnished the unemployed 
and adequate provision can be made for the sick and aged with- 
out loss of self-respect. All such reforms we trust that our 
Settlements, as they grow in strength, may further. Yet we 
are conscious that these very reforms are of the old order. 

28 



Settlements, if they are to be not a temporary and artificial 
resource, but the expression of a permanent life, must help in 
bringing in the new order, that order where the labor of the 
world being more equally distributed, may be changed for 
every man into healthful work. 

Hki^Ena S. Dudlky. 



29 



REPORT ON RESIDENTS AND VISITORS. 



During the year we have had ten residents and thirty -seven 
\'isitors. Those staying less than a month are considered 
visitors. They often come to see what a Settlement is like, and 
through them knowledge of the spirit of the work goes out in 
many directions. The house accommodates six, and has been 
very well filled. We should have been glad to welcome more 
residents, even if it had prevented our receiving all of the visit- 
ors. The average stay of the residents has been five months. 

Board for residents, $5 a week. 

Board for visitors, gr a day. 

The list of residents and visitors is as follows : 

RESIDENTS. 
Miss Helena S. Dudley, B. M., '69 (Head Worker), September 13 to 

July 3. 

Mary A. Johnson, M. D., S., '84, September 10 to September 15. 
Miss Amelia Shapleigh, Cornel!, '93, September 30 to April r. 
Miss Ellen S. Ward, October i to April 18. 

Miaa Harriet B. Harmon, Mt. Holyoke, December iJ to March j8. 
Miss Vida D. Scudder, S., '84, December 15 to January 13. 
Mi83 Mary B. Lippincott (Assistant), March 33 to September 15. 
Miss Dora Freeman, We!. (Head Worker), July 3 to August 14. 
Miss Mary R. Mason, various times. 
Miss Jean Loomis, Wei,, various times. 



Mis. 
Miss 
Mrs. 

Mrs. 
Mrs. 

Mrs. 



Miss 

Mrs. 
Mrs. 

Miaa 



VISITORS. 
Chapiikan. 

Cornelia Warren Boston. 

Adaline Thompson, W. Orange. 

Richards, V Boston. 

Shapleigh . . . Cambridge. 

Ball, C Philadelphia. 

Kenney . Chicago. 

Ole Bull Cambridge. 

Sophie Kirk ... Bryn Mawr. 

Emily M. Morean Hartford. 

Emily Ricliatds, V . . Gennantown. 

Abby Kirk, B. M . Bryn Mawr. 

Eliza Ridgeley Ba.ltimore. 

Marx, C . . Rochester, N. Y. 

Grace Gallaudet, S Washington, D. C. 

Tappan Philade^hia. 

Bertha Hazard, V. . . Boston. 

Jane Addams Chicago. 

Harmon . Lynn, Mass. 

J. S. Merrill. 

Cornelia S. Harmon Lynn, Mass. 

Parker , Bryn Mawr College. 

J.H.Humphries Swarthmore. 

Spaulding Syracuse. 

Margaret Sherman, B. M Wilmington, Del, 

Emily Balch, B. M., '89 Boston. 

Amy Denniston Philadelphia. 

Damon, W New York. 

Engle Chester, Pa. 

E. B. Saundera Davenport, Iowa. 



Master Roswell Johnson Sing Sing, New York. 

Miss K. B. Davis, V., '92 New Yon:. 

Miss Hannah Fox Philadelphia. 

Miss King Philadelphia. 

Miss Galloway Glasgow, Scotland. 

Miss Margarette Lippincott Philadelphia. 

Miss Cornelia C. Church California. 

Miss Edith Rand California. 

HANNAH FOX, 

Secretary on Residents^ 
jjg South Broad Street, Philadelphia. 



OOQf••*5«•*5•OQ^O^OO**'^^^OQO^Q2'QQ >p Q 

eo »o ^ ^ ^ r^\0 ^ »o O «Ono «*> r^ fO ^ « r^ t^ »ooo to O O PQ 
•-« r^ ro o 9^^o ovr>>a^^Mao>or<c«aoQOf^»«fO moo 



8^ 



o 

CO 

» 

D 

09 




too r^"^oQ a\» Q 

"^ f^ •ooo »o c*« n5 



»" O ^'^ ^ ^ 
^ lO "^ « "^ 



^92 

too 



«o 






CO 

H 



.5 

s 
o 

(J 

< 
4; 



4; 






•2 

O 




(A 

4> 

to 

0) 

03 

u 



>o 



8 



P 

Q 
O 






to 

g 



o 

o • 

d 4^ 



5 "S 



n 
o 

CO 

lO 



.15 



< 



32 



HEAD WORKER'S ACCOUNT. 



Per House Expense Book. 

Balance on hand October i, 1892 ^41 99 

To Cash from J. Wister, Treasurer .... 1,71350 

" Board of residents and visitors . 477 25. 

** Class fees 25 85 

Sales of books, etc 5 50 



i( 



12,264 09 
House Expenses. 

By Table expenses J909 32 

Servant 183 10 

Extra housework 154 90 

Wood and coal 167 73 

Oil 38 48 

Furnishing, repairs, etc 174 04 

Sundries 59 31 

Piano 60 00 

District call 18 00 

11,764 88 

Church Expenses. 

By Janitor {138 20 

Cleaning . . ^ 141 45 

Gas 27 60 

Coal 9 00 

Cl^ASSES. 

By Military drill I26 25 

Singing class . • • . 6 00 

Kitchen 13 75 

*' Bank 16 43 






$3^^ 25 



it 



$62 43 

Punch and Judy Show . 5 80 

Stationery 25 19 

Printing 3 12 

Lecture 19 98 

Help to neighbors • 9 00 

* ' Balance on hand 57 44 

12,264 09 
Examined and found correct. 

HANNAH FOX. 






33 



DONATIONS. 

A Friend, through Uira Helena S. Dudley $5° «> 

Arnold, Miaa Helen i «> 

A. S. T 5 oo 

A Friend, through Miss Helena S. Dudley i oo 

Anderson, Miss Grace P i oo 

Allen, Miss Fannie T. lo oo 

Allen, Penrose N ' 5 oo 

Atwood, John H. 5 <** 

Burton, Mrs. Edward P 5 oo ' 

Burnhani, WiUiaiiia & Co aS oo 

Blauchard, Miss Anna 5 Oo 

Blackiston, P 5 OO 

Biddle, Miss Emily Williams 30 oo 

BuUer, Edgar H 5 00 

Blair, Miss Anna S 10 00 

Bartol, Mrs. Geo. E - , . . , 10 00 

Bnmer, Mrs. Ellen K 5 00 

Bodine, Samuel F *5 00 

Burton, E. P. & Co 5 00 

Benson, Lewis F 10 00 

Burnhani, Geo. Jr "5 00 

Buckley Edward S ^5 00 

Erjn Mawr Girls, through Miss Putnam a 78 

Bartol, Mrs. Geo. E., through Mrs. Stuart Patterson 10 00 

Coles, Miss 5° 00 

Coates, Mias Mary ao 00 

Chase, Randall 5 00 

Cfliiiblos, Mrs IS 00 

Corlies, Miss Margaret L. 3 00 

" Mrs. Caroline A. 10 00 

" Miss Sarah F S 00 

Converse, John 10 00 

Cox, Miss Rebecca *5 *» 

Cope, Edward 25 00 

Cadwalader, Dr. Charles E 5 00 

Cope, M. C 10 00 

Carpenter, Mrs. G. W.,Jr 5 00 

Cash ^"^ 

Cash, credit on stationery bill . . : 3 00 

Cash, through Miss Helena S. Dudley 88 50 

Case, Miss Frances E 10 00 

Carr, John H ^o 00 

Cash, through Miss Rice 5 00 

Clark, Mrs. Francis 15 00 

" Miss Mary T. 5 00 

Cose, Mrs. Chas. B 5 «> 

Carpenter shop sales 5 59 

34 




Dutilh, Miaa Emily . 

Da.vis, Mrs. Charles G 5Q O 

Dickson, Mis. Samuel . 
Dutilh. Miss 

Delano, Mrs. Eugene 35 DO 

Edwards, Miss Sallie 
Fox, Mrs. Wm. Logan . 

Fox, Mrs. Samuel M ijo oo j 

Fox, Miss Hannah 

Fisher, EUicott 

Frazer, Mias Annie 

Fisher, Henry M. 

Furuess, Wm. H., D. D. 

Felton, Mrs, 

Frothingham, Miss Cornelia 

Field, Mrs. Samuel 

Fiaher, Mrs. Jj 

Freeman, Miss C. K. 

Fisher, Miss Elizabeth Wilson 

Graff, Miss Henrietta 

Grant, Mrs. W. S., Jl 

Griacom, Mrs, C. A, 

Garrett, Mrs. J. 

Graham, Miss Emily L., and Friend 

Gardner, Miss Ella 

Go wen, Miss Emily 

Hopkins, Mrs. James 

Harris, Mrs. J. Campbell 

Hunter, Mrs. Richard Stockton 

Hinchman, Mrs. Chas. H. 

Howe, Mrs. Helen Bradford 

Through Mrs. H. B. H, 

Hutchinson, Miss Margaret 

Hacker, Wm., Treasurer Philadelphi 

HoMingsworth, Pemberton 

Hawley, Mrs. J. W. 

Huey, Mias Harriet J. 

Hollis. P. C 

Hallo well, Mias Anna 

Hacker, Mrs Charles 

Hippie, Frank K. 

Hare, Charies Willing 

Harrison, Charles C. 

Harley, Miss Anna M 

Hartshome, E. Y. . . 

Hacker, Mrs. Morris 

Hartshorae, Miss Emma A, 

H. S., through Miss Dutilh 

Hacker, Mrs. William . . 



It 
(( 



Hacker, Mrs. William, given to Miss Anna Wharton Smith, for 

a special purpose |5 oo 

Ingham, Mrs. Wm. A 5 oo 

Irwin, Miss Agnes 5 00 

Interest on Deposits 15 77 

Jenks, Mrs., sale of book-shelves 6 00 

Jenks, Mrs. Helen C, (M. R. T.) 200 00 

Jenks, Mrs. John Storey 10 00 

Justice, W. W 20 00 

Johnson, Mrs. R. Winder 10 00 

Jacobs, Mrs. Emily C 100 00 

Keller, Luther P. . . 5 00 

King, Mrs. C. R 10 00 

Kitchen for January 38 58 

** February 38 26 

" March 35 18 

April 36 63 

May 40 88 

June 37 01 

July 16 88 

Kitchen, special gift by Helen C. Jenks, through Miss S. P. 

Wharton 30 00 

Kay, J. Alfred 5 00 

Kennedy, Mrs. Robert Lennox 10 00 

Kitchen, through Miss S. P. Wharton, Miss Sarah H. Pearce, 

Miss Priscilla Clothier, James H. Atkinson 7 50 

Lewis, Howard W 10 00 

Lewis, Enoch 50 00 

Lewis, The Misses 25 00 

Lewis, Wm. P 15 00 

Lewis, Mrs. Morton 50 00 

Leonard, James B , 20 00 

Lambert, Mrs. John 5 00 

Lea, Henry C 100 00 

Lea, Mrs. Henry C 100 00 

Lea, Francis H 50 00 

Lundy, Mrs. J 5 00 

Liddell, Mrs. Stanley • 20 00 

Lindsley, Mrs. F. G , 5 00 

Longstreth, Wm. W 15 00 

Marshall, Mrs. Benjamin » 100 00 

Manderson, Miss 5 00 

McCrea, Miss Mary 20 00 

Morton, Mrs. T. S. K 5 00 

Montgomery, Miss Bertha 5 00 

Mitchell, Mrs. S. Weir 10 00 

Newbold, Mrs. J. Da Costa 5 00 

Newlin, Miss Catharine 25 00 

Norris, Miss 10 00 

36 



Newlin, Miss Sarah J*5 «> 

Nolan, Mrs. (for Club membership), Miss Helen t>. Longstreth, 
Mrs, Thomas Neilaon, Mnt. Jas, Fnuder, Miss Fannj 

Clark. Mrs. Charles W.Nolen 500 

Newlin, Miss Margaret 10 00 

Ncwhall. The Misses 3 <» 

Og'len, Edward H 10 00 

Outerbridge, A. A. 10 00 

Piatt, Charles 10 00 

Powers, Mrs, Thomas H 50 «> 

Paul, Miss F M a 00 

Porter, Mrs. R 5 <» 

Parrisb, Mrs 10 00 

Pugh, Mrs. E. K 10 00 

Paul, Miss Mary W 10 00 

Pepper, Francis S 5 00 

Pepper, William P 10 00 

Pepper, Mrs. Sarah ao 00 

Parrish, Hiss Sarah 3 50 

Penrose, Hon. Clement B 10 00 

Randolph, Mrs. Evan ^5 00 

Rosengarten, J. G 150 00 

Ridgley Miss Eliza 4 00 

Rosengarten, Miss Fanny ^5 00 

Rodman, Mrs. I^wis ' 35 00 

Scott, Miss Helen 5 «> 

Stork, Mrs 3 00 

Stork, T. B 3 00 

Sampson, Mrs. Alden 10 00 

Scull, Mrs. W. Ellis 5 00 

Starr, Mrs. Isaac 35 00 

Sprague, Miss IvConora - 1 00 

Sharpless, Mrs. Chas. W. 5 00 

Spncknian, Mrs. Samnel 5 00 

Shipley, Mrs. S. R 5 00 

Sparhawk, John, Jr 5 00 

Stevenson, Miss a 00 

Shimer, J. V. M 5 00 

Scott, Mrs. Thomas A 50 00 

Snellenburg, Samuel 10 00 

Sbarpe, Mrs. Marianna S 5 "o 

.Smith, Miss S. R S 00 

Spackman, Mrs. Samuel, through Mrs. Stuart Patterson .... s 00 

Sinnickson, Mrs, C. P 5 "> 

Tyler, Miss Helen B 10 00 

Townaend, M. G 5 0° 

Townsend, J. W 35 00 

Tatbam, Miss Isabella 3 00 



The Watchfal (iircte of tie Elng't'DeiugliterB of the Seconil 

Presbyterian Church of Germantown $5 09 

Tower, Mrs. Charlemagne ... - g 00 

Uhler, George H. S . 

Vaasar Girls, through Misa Clark 

Weston, Mrs, S. Bums 

Wistar, Mrs. Mifflin (Library) 

Wade. Mrs '. 

Wayne, Mrs. William 

Wister, Rodman 

Wister, Jones 

Warren, Miss Cornelia, Treasurer College Settlement Association, 

Wharton, Miss Mary M 

Wistar, Dr. Thomas . , , 

White, Mrs. Clarence 

Wilbur, H. O. Sons 

Wilkinson, J. H 

Whitall, James 

Wharton, Charles W 

Wilcox, MaryR,, M. D 

Welsh, Mrs. J. Lowber . 

Warren, Mrs. E. B 

Wood, Charles 

Wood, Waller 

Welsh, Miss Fanny D. L 

Wood, Miss Helen Biddle 

Wood, Miss Ida 

Welsh, Herbert 

WhartOD, Mrs. Rodman 

Wanamaker, Mrs. John 

Woods, RcT. Charles 



LIST OF GIFTS AND MONEY FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES. 



Mrs. Evan Randolph, fco.oo, to send boy to Hampton. 

Children's Aid Society, traveling expenses of same boy. 

Mrs. Pauline Henry, $10.00, for Employment Fund. 

Mrs. J. H. Howe, J5.00, 

Mr. Salter's Sunday School Class, I7.50, for cAre of special children. 

Mrs. Harold Siil, $85.67, for expenses Sewing Class. 

Mrs. F. H. Dougherty, Jroo.oo, for Summer excursions. 

Mr. Chaa. C. Harrison, $50.00, to Children's Country Week Association 

—for our benefit, 
Mrs. WiUiam Mitchell, three chairs, table, waahstand, china, etc. 
Mrs. Pauline Henry, Christmaa decorations. 
Mrs. Harold Sill, money, candy, etc., for Christmas. 
Miss Ursula Fine, oranges, " " 







Mrs. Twitchill, 25 lbs. candy, for Christmas. 

Mrs. Davis, oranges, *' *' 

Mrs. Charles G. Davis, candles, etc., for Christmas. 

Mrs. Sarah M. Neilson, box of oranges, ** 

Mrs. Howe, oranges, apples, etc.. 

Missionary Guild of the Church of the Atonement (through Miss Bessie 
Elliott), box of candy, toys, etc., for Christmas. 

Miss Vida D. Scudder, photographs, for the house. 

Needle- Women's Guild, package of clothing. 

Mr. Barker, barrel of apples. ' 

Plants from John Curwen, Jr., Miss Clarke, Mrs. Sill, Miss Trumbull, 
Mr. Davis. 

Books from Franklin A. Dick ; Trinity Church ; Miss Arnold ; Mrs. 
Edw. Le Boutellier ; Miss M. E. Hoskins ; Mr. Hartshome. 

Mrs. Wm. F. Jenks, books and shelves for Home Library. 

Papers and magazines. New Century Club ; H. J. Baird Huey ; Mrs. E. 
J. Lester, and others. 

Circle of King's Daughters (through Miss J. Selfridge), towels. 

Mrs. Sill, curtains. 

Caroline G. Hunsworth, sewing machine. 

M. P. Saunders, palm for flower window. 

Miss Burling, writing. 



39 



BOSTON SETTLEMENT. (Denison House.) 



KEPOBT OP THE HEAD WOBKEH. 



In October of 1S92, Miss lia'ch reported to the ElectoralJ 
Board that the Boston Committee had engaged a house ( " 
93 Tyler street, and expected soon to open a settlement undea 
the auspices of the association. The committee had 
succeeded in securing a head worker, but several women < 
unusual ability and experience had offered themselves as 
residents, and it was felt that we must not let such lielpful 
purpose escape us. We hoped that much might be done in 
the way of getting acquainted with our district and establishing 
friendly relations with our neighbors, even though we lacked 
the leadership that should guarantee symmetrically organized 
and sustained work. The committee has seen no reason to 
regret its decision. We have gradually gained the coofidence 
and sympathy of our neighbors ; we have established connection 
with local institutions ; we have come to understand in som? 
measure the forces at work in the community for good and for 
evil. A good foundation has been laid for future work. Miss 
Helena S, Dudley, a graduate of Bryn Mawr, who has had a 
year's experience in charge of the Philadelphia Settlement, has 
been appointed head worker, and we are looking forward to a 
year of helpful activity under her wise administration. 

Our house is not so spacious, nor so airy, as those occupied 
by the New York and Philadelphia Settlements. It was not 
well-built originally, and years of sub-letting had reduced it to 
a wretched state. When we took the house, it had the reputa- 
tion of being the dirtiest on the street, but the location suited 
us and the landlord was ready to make radical repairs. Two 
tliousand dollars was expended in bringing the place up to a 
good sanitary condition. The house is named for Edward 
Denison, who in 1867, went to live in Stepney, East London, 
becoming a pioneer in hand to hand work in this district, and 
displaying a devotion of heart, and a cool clear-headedness of 
method which we would be glad to imitate. 

Denison House opened December 27, 1892, with six 
residents and a housekeeper. We hoped at first to get on 
without a servant, but we soon proved that the care of the 
house required time and strength that might better be expended 
in other ways. Each resident has a room to herself, and the 
charge for board and lodging is six dollars a week. As there 
are nine bed-rooms, there has been room for invited guests, and 
these have been of great service, being for the most part, women 
"'' '■' training. Mrs. Charlas G. Ames, one of the State 



Inspectors of Factories, Miss Zilpha D. Smith, General Secre- 
tary of the Associated Charities, and Miss Hanuah M. Todd, 
Probation Officer of the Municipal Criminal Court, have stayed 
with us several weeks each, and Miss Addams, of Hull House, 
a night or two. Such visitors can throw light on our difficult 
problems. Our quota of residents was somewhat reduced 
during the summer, but we maintained a pretty good average; 
five for July, three for August, and four during September. 
Boston's comparatively cool climate, renders the city far more 
tolerable in summer than New York or Philadelphia. 

We think ourselves fortunate in our situation. We have 
many neighbors who can thoroughly sympathize with our 
hopes and give us most effective support, while yet we are 
near very serious problems. The thoroughfare to the southern 
stations, Kneeland street, is to the northeast of us, while the 
road to South Boston is toward the south. In the quieter 
region between there is a wide range of conditions. While a 
few old residents still retain their entire houses, most of our 
neighbors live in tenements poorly enough contrived out of 
the small houses built for but oue family. There is much 
destitution, especially this autumn, since employment has 
failed so many bread- winners. The neighborhood is strongly 
Irish, but the Jews are coming in, while Italians, Germans, 
Hungarians, Poles aud Armenians are to be found. The 
Chinese bit of Harrison avenue is near us, and not far away 
are very poor and even criminal districts. Beyond Broadway 
are the streets named after New York cities ; Seneca, Oneida, 
Oswego, Genesee, Rochester, etc. This is becoming a Jewish 
quarter ; the tenements are crowded and the streets full of 
children. Here, as everywhere, good and bad exist side by 
side ; and, although there is much to be deplored, wholesome 
home life is not wanting. The poorer parts of South Boston 
are also within reach. 

The evils of the neighborhood are largely connected with 
drunkenness. Saloons and illegal kitchen bar-rooms abound. 
Young people have few quiet and respectable ways of meeting. 
The children are more favored than those of New York, iu 
more ample school accommodations, and more accessible play- 
grounds, while the Public Library and Art Museum are more 
available to those of proper age. The Roman Catholic Church 
exerts a strong influence for good. We have noticed this, 
especially iu the social eutertainments provided for young men 
and women together, through the Catholic Total Abstinence 
Societies. The neighborhood is badly off for baths. There 
are very rarely bath-rooms in the tenement houses, and tliere 
are no public baths except in the river. There is now a 
proposition before the City Council, for the appropriation of 
money for public baths, open all the year round. We have 
been glad to use what influence we have in fa\-or of this 
measure. The Boston Bath House Company is about *" 
establish baths in the immediate neighborhood. Thet 



i 



I 



bouses are many of them in a wretched state, dirty, neglected, 
and out of repair. Some landlords have a custom of shutting 
off the water supply from iheir houses during the coldest weeks 
of the winter, while there is danger that the pipes will freeze. 
Many tenants are too ignorant and shiftless to stand up for their 
own rights. We have reported unsanitary bouses that came 
under our observation to the Board of Health, and have in 
certain cases insisted on repairs. 

Our neighbors often complain of loneliness. This trouble is 
so general as to sometimes appear a little ridiculous, when the 
remedy seems to be so near. But it takes time and talent to 
develop social life anywhere, and something little short of 
genius would be necessary here, where lack of time, lack of 
room, and lack of confidence make sociability difficult. When, 
under some domestic stress, we have done our owu cooking and 
. scrubbing, we have come to understand why our neighbors do 
not organize the social life of the neighborhood. We recognize 
this as a field, especially our own. Thursday evening we are 
understood to be ready for callers, and many of our neighbors 
have come in for music, both listening and taking part. On 
one occasion a German woman sat down to the piano and sang 
us a song from Schumann. On Saturday afternoon we are at 
home to the children, and they respond very cordially to our 
invitation. Some twenty little people come in the early after- 
noon to sing, and play games and listen to stories. In the 
endeavor to secure some influence with the boys of the neigh- 
borhood, we have asked them to spend occasional evenings at 
the house. They seized upon the opportunity with so much 
eagerness, that it has seemed almost necessary to organize 
clubs, and three boys' club met at the house throughout the 
summer on Tuesday, Wednesday and Friday evenings. On 
Monday afternoon the children of the neighborhood come in to 
deposit their pennies in our stamp- saving's bank, and to draw 
books from the loan library. During the summer we have 
engineered picnics for the children, availing ourselves of the 
hospitality of suburban friends. These excursions have been 
sometimes simply a row on the river. One day we took a 
dozen delighted youngsters down the harbor by steamer. 
Flowers have been sent to us in great abundance throughout 
the summer, and the residents have distributed them at the 
vacation school, at the day-nursery, in a tailor-shop, and in 
the homes of our neighbors. The generosity of friends has 
made it possible for us to send ten children to a farm-house at 
Dana, for a week or ten days each. 

Any report of Denison House would be incomplete without 
some recognition of the good work that is being done in the 
neighborhood by such organizations as the Associated Charities, 
the Provident Society, the Industrial Aid and the Childrens' 
Aid. From the Salvation Army we have received encourage- 
ment and timely advice, The teachers in the public schools 
havegiven us most helpful suggestions. We are glad to " 



Ul BgC- 

chools 

to find J 



that the wisest of these friends are the quickest to recognize Ihe 
advantage we have laid hold of in actual residence in the 
neighhorhood. 

We have gladly co-operated with many local agencies. For 
example, two of our residents serve on the governing board of 
the Ward XVI Day Nursery, and one resident makes herself 
responsible for a home library on Oswego street. We were 
able last spring to render some assistance to the School Com- 
mittee, in determing whether to prolong the session of the 
night-school. They needed an expression of local opinion. 
We secured this, and the three weeks' extension so gained is 
likely to be introduced into all the uight-schools in the city. 
We joined other residents of the South End in planning the 
Art Exhibition held last March. The wisdom of this venture 
was demonstrated by the 43,000 admissions recorded in the 
course of the month. We were asked to furnish an assistant 
to the Tyler Street Vacation School, and a resident was found 
to render the service four mornings in the week throughout the 
summer. Miss Dudley and Miss Scudder have lent their aid 
to the educational work undertaken by Andover House. Each 
is to give a course of lectures during the winter to the Emerson 
Club— a society made up of young men and women wage 
earners, who are utilizing all available opportunities for self- 
improvement. Through Andover House, also, we have made 
the acquaintance of several leaders of the labor- movement, 
more especially those interested in trades- unions. They have 
taken pains to explain to us their methods aud their hopes, and 
we have become deeply interested in the great possibilities 
hidden in such a brotherly union between workers of all grades 
of efficiency. 

About the future it is hard to speak, but we may say that 
the lines on which we would have our life develop, become 
more evident to us as the months pass by. It is not probable, 
for example, that Denison House will ever be a centre for 
exclusive or even distinctive work among children and young 
people. Such work is largely carried on in New York and 
Philadelphia ; its importance cannot be overstimated ; yet, it is 
a pity that this, which is after all but one side, though a fine 
one, of settlement activity, should be mistaken by the public, 
and sometimes by would-be workers, for the whole. A letter, 
recently received, speaks of a large gift for the benefit of work- 
ing-women to be bestowed somewhere. The donor has thought 
of settlements, but, says the letter, "she wishes the gift used 
not for children but for working-girls;" therefore, it would 
hardly be appropriate for a settlement. Such a misapprehen- 
sion certainly indicates that a new emphasis is desirable from a 
new settlement. The profound conceptions of modern life and 
modern needs for which, if we are permanently to justify our 
existence, we must stand, may be worked out in many ways. 

It now seems to us that our leading interests at Denison 
House will be twofold. If we use the large p' 

4»J 



Extension and the organization of labor, it is not because we 
dare feel that we have mucli power to help, but because we 
know that we have great desire. It cannot be otherwise than 
deeply useful to oiu-selves, at least, that little groups of working- 
women, representing varying trades, should have formed the 
habit of telling us the conditions of life and labor of which 
they have personal experience in this desperate industrial 
crisis ; nor is it without value that the far-sighted men who 
have influence in the councils of labor should be ever eagerly 
ready to share their best wisdom with us and should seem to 
thiuk that we may in time be of service to women wage-earners. 
Whether their hopes will be fulfilled we cannot say ; the 
organization of women-workers is beset by difficulties which at 
present seem almost insuperable. But the mere knowledge 
which we are gaining, and which we in turn may hope to share 
with many, will assuredly help to that awakening of the social 
conscience which must precede all social betterment. 

Of University or College Extension we may speak more hope- 
fully. Action along industrial lines may be tangled and doubt- 
ful, but of the necessity and privilege of bringing the joy and 
freedom of the higher learning to those who will receive it, 
there can be no question. We hope to have small classes in 
art, literature or science, for the young people, many of whom 
show courage, enthusiasm and perseverance in pressing toward 
an education even when handicapped by ten hours daily manual 
labor. These relations are new as yet, the development we 
cannot predict ; but we who live here feel that a new world is 
open to us — a world where every good thing that we have ever 
received may be handed on to others, and where we may our- 
selves gain a widened outlook and deepened experience, which 
will enable us to desire with more intelligence as well as more 
intensity the better social order of the future. 

Executive Committee, Denison House. 



^^H^ REPORl 


ON ^^^^^^^1 


Denisou House, being started somewhat tentatively, no rules. ^^H 


as to length of residence 


or deSnitiou of the terms residenl or ^^^H 


visitor were decided on. N 


o complete record has been kept, but ^^H 


the following dates of residence are approximately correct. ^^H 


Those who spent less than two consecutive months at the settle- ^^H 


ment are put down as visitors, and 


those who made a longer ^^H 


stay, as residents, but the distinction does not correspond to any ^^H 


real difference, some of the visitors having been among the ^^H 


most valuable workers. 


Resident 


■ 


Miss Helen Cheever .... 




rDec.27to Mayi.Iune' ^^^| 
■ ■ \ i5toJulyi7.0cLJo- ^H 


Mrs. I. G. Hartivell 




. . Dec. 17 to June 15. ^^^M 


Miss Laurette Cate 






Miss Carol Dresser 




. . Dec. sS to June 15. ^^^^| 


Miss Susan W. Peabody . . . 




' . Jan. 16 to June 15. ^^^^^^| 


Miss Maude Mason (Fellow) 




. . Jan. 23 to AprU 3. ^^H 


Miss Hannah M. Todd . . . 




. . Mar. 27 to May 31. ^^^H 


Miss Rollins 






Miss Ellen S. Ward 




/July 3 to Sept. 19,' ^^M 


Miss Cora Stev^art 




. . July 17 to Aug. iS. ^^H 


Miss Nina Brown 




. . Aug. 11 to Oct. 26, ^^^H 


Miss Helena S. Dudley (Head Worker) 


' ■ Sept. 5- ^^m 


Miss V. D. Scudder 




. . Sept. ^^H 


Miss K. P. Woods (Felloivl . 




. . Oct. 17— ^^^M 


Miss C. L. Williamson . . . 




. . ^^M 




VISITORS. 




1 Miss Jane Addams. 




Miss C. I. Ireland. ^^H 


^^^H Miss Lucy Adams. 




Miss Anna Lathrop. ^^H 


^^^ Mrs. C.G. Ames. 




Miss Jean Loomis. ^^H 


^^^M Miss E. G. Balch. 




Miss Lucy A. Morse. ^^^H 


^^^^M Miss Edith Bancroft. 




Miss Mason. ^^H 


^^^^m Miss Buffington. 




Miss Myrick. ^^H 


^^^H Misses Clieever. 




Miss Pope. ^^^^1 


^^^B Miss Coatswonh. 




Miss Shepherd. ^^H 


^^^m Uiss Katbariue Conian 




Miss Sherwin. ^^^^H 


^^^H Miss Florence Converse 




MissSimrall. ^^^H 


^^^1 Miss Ida M. Davis. 




Miss Smith. ^^^H 


^^^1 Miss Dillingham. 




Miss Zilpha D, Suiitii. ^^^^| 


^^H Miss L. R. Elder. 




Miss Very. ^^^H 


^^^V Miss Frear. 




Miss Winifred Watson.. ^^H 


^^^ Miss J. Freeman. 




Miss Irene Weir. ^^^H 


P Miss Jnlia George. 




Miss White. ^^^H 


1 Miss Hancock. 




Miss ^^H 


I Misses Hartwell. 


4& 





Z 

s 

.J 

h 
h 

09 

z 
o 

H 

GO 

O 

n 
o 

CO 

h 

fa 
O 

H 

o 



o 



tn 
O 



8 



5 
5^ 



o 



> 

O 



a 

pa 
p< 



CO 



CO 






O 



i>*ooS o S 




PC4pQ 



o 
Z 

a 
B 
S 

w 



»OQ0tJ-«iO»O«»O0v0 



00 







S 8 «"§ 




^ ?! a 






^ 



a 

•rt 

•53 

S- 
o 

u 



ti 

d 



J,^ 



Sr s 



c 
o 

o 
Q 



en 

a 
o 

a 
o 



0} 

•»i 

C/) 

ei cj g oT 

(0 o 



w 

w 

Z 
O 
H 
P< 
O 

P< 



I 



46 



CO »0 »0 »0 0^^^ 

CO a^vO VO *0 »0 
M 00 ^ CO ONH 



8^ 



D 
O 
O 

o 

CO 

z 

X 

(» 

D 

o 

» 

o 

CO 

h 

< 



^1 



to 

ON 

00 



CO 



5^ 



§ 



a 
o 9 

OS 



a 



8 5 



PQ ^ 1X4 tXi r/3 
p- - 5 r 



00 eO»0 

00 »o»o 

tOOO 



ON 






CO 

OS 

a 

>^ 

(0 



Ji 



tw 




d 


H 




5 


(I4 




2i 


« 


• • 


^ 


a 


eO 


*\ 


w 


S" 


^ 


p< 


M 


i) 

^ 




M 

• 






•M 






PLI 


• 




(Ji 


• 
• 



a 



n 
o 



i2 
c 

S3 
O 



5 S 



ON 
00 



ill 
25 5 






CO 



(L) 



P^ 



'd 

> 
o 

Ph 

< 



to 

Si 

o t>i 

o 
p^ 



« 
M 



> 

d 

I 

en 
cd 

o 



d 

(U 
u 

H 



47 



DONATIONS. {Denison House.) To September i, 1893. 

Vassar AlnmnEC (Miss E- G. Honghton) ISO <» 

A Friend (H. P. K.) 600 00 

Mrs. W. H. Lincoln * «> 

Miss Hayes School 40 00 

A rrienii tl..j W 3<» 00 

Mrs. M, B. Masoa 3P °° 

Miss S. Allbrigbt 5 W 

Friends (through Mrs. Scudder) 8 75 

Wellesly Chapter, C. -S. -\., 84 34 

Mrs. and Miss Sherwood 40 00 

Collee^ Club (Miss R. L.Horn) 35 00 

Mrs. Edward C. Jones 100 00 

Mrs. Fred. FHriloliasket 5 «> 

Rev. and Mrs. C. G. Anies 20 00 

Miss Margaret Jackson 15 00 

Miss Vida Scudder 5 00 

Mr. James S. Kuhn 5 00 

G. L. Ik-iievulent Society, Howard St. Church 1$ 00 

Mrs. M. DayKiinhnll 40 <» 

Miss Susan faaj Kimball 35 00 

Smith Chapter (Miss A. O. Aldrich) 7° 56 

Smith College 45 06 

Miss Cftlhtriiie Ireland «o <» 

F. V, Babb 5 00 

Miss Annie Capen ' 00 

" The Annex" (Miss Sarah Yena) 5850 

Miss Amelia L. Owen 2 °o 

Miss Louisa Stevens 5 «> 

Miss Caroline Williamson ao 00 

Cburch Colleclions (throi^h Miss Scudder) 33 5o 

. Mr. J. C. Harris '° °o 

Rev. Mr. Skete 5 00 

Mrs. W. Richardson aS 00 

Miss Mary R. Mason 10 00 

Mrs. Joseph M. Fisher ^5 «> 

Miss Elizabeth S. Fisber ■ *5 «> 

Mrs. S. D. Warren 20 00 

Mr. Henry C. Warren 35 00 

Miss Julia Minets 5 0° 

Mrs. L. H. Tbayer *5 00 

Mr. and Mrs. Samuel Dennis Warren 5° 00 

Miss Lincoln's Sunday School Class ^^ °° 

ToUl 'i'7°5 71 

ANNUAI, SUBSCKIPTIONS. 

Mrs. S. D. Watren *5 00 

Mrs. David W. Hitchcock 5 °o 

Total "° <» 

48 



REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON FELLOW- 
SHIPS. 



The duties of the Committee on Fellowships may be divided 
into two parts : the practical part of the assignment of the 
fellowships and the general supervision of the work of the 
Fellows ; and the more theoretic part of investigating the pos- 
sibilities that lie within the bounds of this new field of Settle- 
ment work. The committee finds no difficulty in rendering a 
report upon the first portiou of its work for the past year, 
but it finds that the second portion must be carried on for a 
much longer period than one year before a report of any value 
can be given. 

The committee on taking up its work last autumn found the 
fellowships already assigned for the years i892-'g3 : one to Miss 
AmeUa Shapleigh, of Cornell, and the other to Miss Maud 
Mason, of Wellesley. Miss Shapleigh's subject and direction 
were also already determined upon, her subject being, "The 
Dietary of the Poor," and her director, Mrs. Richards of 
Boston. Her work was so well understood by herself and so 
ably directed by Mrs. Richards that it would have been the 
merest form for the committee in any way to interfere 
with it. 

Miss Shapleigh's report gives ample proof of the strong, schol- 
arly character of the work, and the committee congratulates 
the Board and the Association upon this most satisfactory 
result of this first experiment in this new venture in socialistic 
work. 

It was left for the committee to decide upon a subject for inves- 
tigation for Miss Masou. After some consultation with spec- 
ialists, and the consideration of a number of subjects, it was 
agreed that she should investigate "The Use the Poor Make 
of their Leisure Time." The purpose in undertaking this 
study was to discover new explanations for the holding together 
of these people in the large cities, and also to secure a fuller 
understanding of their resources andlimitations. Miss Mason's 
work was undertaken without the especial superintendence 
given to Miss Shapleigh, it being impossible to secure the aid 
of a specialist. Dr. Mary Damon gave it a general superin- 
tendence, giving many useful suggestions and much genuine 
aid. Miss Mason's work was successfully inaugurated, but, 
unfortunately, she was obliged to abandon it when her time 
was but half completed because of ill health. Her report of 
that portion of the work which was completed is delayed by 
the same cause. 



I 



The applicants for the fdlowships for the present year irnin- 
bered thirteen, nine of whom were college graduates. The 
colleges represented were Vassar. Smith, Wellesley, University 
of Michigan, Elmira and Mt. Holyoke. The decision between 
these candidates was a difficult one, but a careful consideration 
of time of application, fitness for the position, and earnestness 
of purpose narrowed the choice to three. Since these three 
all seemed desirable candidates, and since one-half of the money 
from one of the fellowships of la.st year was to be returned, it 
was at last decided by the committee that all three should be 
appointed, trusting to the receiving of the amount necessary to 
complete the sum for the third fellow. The three fellowships 
then were given to Miss Ada S. Woolfolk of Wellesley, who 
holds the Upham fellowship ; Miss Isabel Katon of Smith, who 
holds the Dutton fellowship, and Miss Katharine Pearson 
Woods, the author of " Metzerott Shoemaker," and other 
socialistic novels. The appointment to place was a little diffi- 
cult, since conflicting requests came from the different appli- 
cants, and it was also necessary to consider the fitness and 
needs of the various settlements as well as of the applicants. 
The matter was finally decided as follows : Miss Woolfolk is 
to spend the first part of the year in New York and the latter 
part in Boston ; Miss Eaton will be the first part in Chicago 
and the latter in New York, while Miss Woods is first in 
Boston and will later be in Philadelphia. 

Miss Woolfolk's subject for investigation is, "The Obstacles 
to Sanitary Living Among the Poor," the purpose being to 
discover the nature and prevalence of these obstacles, how 
far the responsibility for their existence lies with the sufferer, 
how far with the landlord, and how far with the local govern- 
ment. Miss Woods has taken for her subject, " Typical Inju- 
ries and Maladies of the Workers in the Various Occupations." 
There is still some question as to the exact form of Miss Eaton's 
subject, but Mrs. Kelly, the expert in such investigations, will 
superintend that portion of her work which is down in 
Chicago. 

The arrangements for the present year are, therefore, prac- 
tically completed, but in the more general portion of its work 
the committee has been able to make but the merest beginning. 
It is convinced of the great importance of continuing the fellow- 
ship work, not only because of its own closer acquaintance 
with the possibilities in that work, hut because of the cordial 
words of encouragement and approbation given by specialists 
in economic study. Many of these specialists speak of the 
unequalled opportunities offered to Fellows in Settlements for 
such investigation. Definite suggestions as to what may he 
done are more difficult to secure. Enough such suggestions have 
been made, however, to prove that the field for investigation 
is a large and fertile one. Among the subjects suggested are 
the following ; 



Ideas of the poor concerning employers, bankers, specu- 
lators, shopkeepers, etc. 

Strikes and remedies therefor. 

Means for bettering the condition of the poor by artificially- 
making work. 

Are the workers reading socialistic literature, and if so, how 
and to what extent are they influenced by it ? 

The practical effect of the eight-hour system in a crowded 
precinct. 

The relation of the poor to churches ; to Christianity outside 
of churches ; to morality, both doctrinal and practical. 

Decrease of the housewifery arts among the poorer classes ; 
considering causes, present results, and possible future results. 

Comparison between the married and unmarried women of 
the working classes in the conditions of their work, considering 
the proportion of each who work, their reasons for working. 
the nature of their work, and their earnings. The object in 
the last subject is to prove that a woman is not a temporary 
but a permanent worker, and that, therefore, it is of importance 
to her that she secure good conditions for her work. 

In the investigation of these and other subjects it is claimed 
that a Settlement Fellow can work with pecuhar advantage, 
and it is also claimed that the results may be made of practical 
value. 

Several questions of importance have been brought to the 
attention of the committee and it is hoped that some valuable 
suggestions may be made in a later report, as the result of 
their consideration. 

Mary Alice Knox, 
Chairman of Ike Fellowship Commillee. 



4 



REPORTS OF CHAPTERS. 



WELLBSLEY CHAPTER. 

Number of full members and chairmen of committees, 47 ; 
number of individuals in organization, 227. A Wellesley 
Alumnae Chapter is being formed that those who graduate 
may still continue in an active membership. 

During the year several addresses were given before the 
chapter, Miss Scudder on one occasion describing her visit at 
the Philadelphia Settlement. 

Members of the chapter have furnished a Wellesley room at 
the Boston Settlement, and it has been occupied by a former 
Wellesley student. 

A number of the members assisted in conducting the Free 
Art Kxhibition in Boston, held in the Spring, thereby coming 
in touch with the people they want to know. 

It is planned that during the coming year members shall 
assist in entertaining children at the Boston Settlement on 
Saturday afternoons. 

The more the work of the Settlement has been known and 
understood, enthusiasm has increased, especially so since the 
Boston Settlement was located within such easy reach. The 
Wellesley Chapter's prospects for '93 and '94 are decidedly 
encouraging. 

Respectfully submitted, 

Alice W. Kellogg, 
Secretary W, C, C. S. H, 
October 17, 1893. 



VASSAR CHAPTER, 

In point of numbers the Vassar Chapter does not show great 
growth, but the membership list is not altogether indicative of 
the interest felt in college, in the settlement work. For the 
year 1893 there were 41 full memberships representing a much 
larger number of members. About ten of these memberships 
were made up of clubs of from two to ten girls. This is an 
improvement on 1892 when half the memberships were made 
up of clubs. 

The identification of the chapter work with the Young 
Women's Christian Association of the college sometimes leads 

52 




As that is a much larger organization and em- 
braces all kinds of philanthropic work, its clubs make the little 
garments and gather the flowers which through the general 
interest in the College Settlement's work find Sieir way down 

I to the Rivington Street House. 

I The educational character of the meetings which have been 

I held with some regularity during the past year has roused an 
interest among the girls, as they are glad to learn as much ns 
possible about the work in which many of them hope to take 

! an active part on leaviug college. 

At these meetings articles on settlement work have been read 
and discussed, and the chapter has been addressed by Miss 
Hazard. Other speakers whom the chapter has heard, together 
with the Christian Associatiou, are Miss Wood and Miss Jane 

j^^^Wdams, 

^^^L Edith C. Holmes, '95, 

^^^^The Smith Chapter of College Settlements Association 
r begins work this year under very favorable circumstances. 
Already there are one hundred new members from the faculty 
and the sophomore and fresbmeu classes alone, and there prom- 
ises to be more interest in the work than there has been in pre- 
vious years. 

Meetings were held from time to time last year, and in March 
it was voted to send money from the Smith Chapter to furnish 
the parlor of the Boston Settlemeut. $115.62 was raised 
through private contributions, and a gift from one of the 
dramatic societies. 

The officers for this year are : Miss Aldrich, treasurer and 
elector; Miss Williams, '94: Miss Bonner, '95; Miss Bacon, 
'96, and Miss Rockwell. '97, sub- treasurers. 

Eleanor H. Nichols, '95, 

Secrelary. 



SMITH CHAPTER. 



WELLS CHAPTER. 

The Wells College Chapter was organized October 20, 1892, 
with a membership of thirty-four, seven of whom were full 
members, the others joining in clubs of from two to five. 

At the second meeting Mrs. Pintti gave her report of the 
Autumn meeting of the Association held in Philadelphia and 
an account of the work in that new settlement. 

In November Mrs. Humphries came and told us the story 
her life among the children at the Katonah summer home 




which aroused so much sympathy for that branch of the work 
that there was a ready response when, at the beginning of the 
warm weather, there came an appeal for money to help give 
the Rivingston Street children their annual outing. 

Each week through the year a group of students met and 
sewed, making nearly forty gamients. which were sent to 
New York as a source of supply for the settlement doctor who 
finds on her visits so many cases of extreme destitution. 

Through May and June, weekly, baskets of wild flowers 
were gathered and sent to Rivington street. 

At the first meeting of the chapter this Fall Miss Florence 
Loomis was re-elected president and our membership roll in- 
creased by seven new names, 

Abby S. Corbin, 

Secretary. 
WeUs College, Oct. i8, 1893. 



MT. HOLYOKB CHAPTER. 

The Mt. Holyoke Chapter was organized iu February, 1893. 
Its members strive through this organization to arouse the in- 
terest of the members of the college and of the alumnae in 
College Settlement work. 

The business meetings are annual, at which meetings the 
officers, consisting of president, vice-president, secretary and 
treasurer and elector are chosen. The chapter has a member- 
ship at present of eighteen. 

The organization took place so late in the school year that 
no public meeting was thought advisable. Such a meeting 
will be held during the fall term, and we hope through this 
and strong personal effort to influence many others to join 
our chapter in this present year. 

Bertha M. Terrill, "95, 
Secretary. 
South Hadley, Mass., Oct. 18, 1893. 



CORNELL CHAPTER. 

The Cornell Chapter of the College Settlement Association 
was formed May 12, 1893. with a membership of twenty-five, 
this number, however, not by any means representing all the 
partial memberships in the Association. 

The work is started this fall and is progressing ; new members 
are obtained continually, nine of them being from the entering 
class. 




The constitution adopted at the first meeting is a combina- 
tion of those of Vassal- and Wellesley Colleges, modified to 
suit the needs of Cornell University. Tlie officers provided 
for are elector, secretary and treasurer, and vice-electors con- 
sisting of the lady principal of Sage College and one from 
each undergraduate class and one representing the special and 
post-graduate students. 

Our principal work this year will be the increase of member- 
ships and promotion of interest in the chapter. 

Bertha Howell. 
Elector, 



^^^ BRYN MAWR ALUMN.C CHAPTER. 

' The Bryn Mawr Alumnse Chapter of the College Settle- 
ments Association was organized at a meeting of those alumnre 
and former students interested in the matter held on June 
I. 1893- 
- The cause of its fonnation was a feeling that the interest and 
knowledge of these students in the settlement's work would be 
more definitely secured if there was some organization whose 
purpose should be to keep its members informed of the move- 
ment and should bring them in some certain and official way 
into touch with the Central Association. 

Any such movement is necessarily slow, but we hope that 
by means of annual meetings, of which all members receive 
notices together with a memorandum of the business to be 
transacted, we shall succeed in keeping our members all 
actively interested. We are trying also to organize very in- 
formal "sub centres" under the guidance of vice- electors. 
-The idea is simply an effort to find a simple, practical method 
of keeping the work in all its aspects constantly before the 
minds of the members. 

The duty of the vice-elector is to interest the members of 
her neighborhood in the settlement's work and to interest non- 
members in the Association. Ways and means are as yet left 
entirely to the vice-elector. We have at present vice-electors 
in Boston, Philadelphia, Bryn Mawr and Indianapolis, and 

L intend shortly to appoint one in New York. 

^^^_ Susan G. Walker, 

^^^L Elector. 

(I The Annex Chapter of the C. S. A. for iSga-'g^ consisted 
' of sixteen full members and five partial members — a grati- 
fying increase over the ten full and five partial members of 
the preceding year. 



ANNEX CHAPTER. 



The only work which the chapter undertook during the 
year was the furnishing of a room at Denison House. For 
this purpose about ninety dollars was raised from actual and 
former students of the Annex, and the readiness with which 
this amount was subscribed, with no pressure on the part of 
the C. S. A. members — a simple statement of the need and 
opportunity being placed in writing before each individual 
student — is a pleasant indication of the interest felt in the 
cause by many who are not willing or able to bind them- 
selves to an annual payment. 

You will notice that I make no mention of the "alumnae 
and other former students." As these pay their subscriptions, 
for the most part, to headquarters instead of to me, I find it 
impossible to keep wount of them. The Annex "former 
students" are a peculiarly variable and perplexing quantity, 
as some of them are always coming back for more study. 

IvESLIE W. HOPKINSON, 
Cambridge. October 19, 1893. 



BLMIRA CHAPTER. 






The Elmira Chapter has held one public meeting this year, 
at which Miss Jones addressed us on the Rivington street 
house. At Christmas time the chapter intends to send books 
and fancy articles to the New York Settlement. 
Respectfully, 

Fanny Clark Whehler, 
Secrelary. 
Elmira College, Elmira, N. Y., Nov. 13, 1893. 



PACKER CHAPTER. 

It has been a custom at Packer at Christmas to give a dinnej 
to some thirty or forty children who had no other means of o " 
ebratiug that festival. Last year it seemed expedient to omifl 
this, and instead the money generally used for this purpose v 
sent to Rivington street for their Christmas celebrations, 

During the last week of the school year a letter came frcwitB 
Miss Rand telling of the need and opportunities of the work a' 
Katonah. Though the matter was presented rather too late ' 
to stir up genera! interest in the summer home, a sum of six 
dollars and a half ($6,50) was made, and during the summer 
one of our younger alumna? spent about three weeks as a res- 
ident there. 

Our annual meeting occurred on October 13, at which mem- 
bers of the senior class and alumnie spoke npon their personal 



experiences at Hull House, University Settlement A.rt Ex- 
hibits and Katonah. As an outcome we hope for an increase 
in our subscriptions. At present there is no chapter at Packer, 
but we hope one will be formed in the near future, and thereby 
that we may give more personal help, to this work. 

Bkrtha Backus. 



57 



8 



3 8 



8 8 
5 I 



8« 



8 
J? 



888;;? 



0( 

D 
OB 

< 

H 

< 

Z 

o 

X 
H 

fa 

o 

h 
O 



s 



3 

H 

Q 



CO 

8 



H 
09 



H 
CO 



fa 

Q 



(J 










I S 



^^ 8 

S o 

!i 

S 






o 



8SK8 

C «OVO ON 



to 



»o 



OS 
>^ 

a 
C 

5^ H 



•k 

o 



4^ 
O 

0) 



I 



53; 

« « fO 

ONO>a^ 

M 8 ti ^ 

O <a w «« 



a 
o 

■a 
I 

a 

I 

a 
o 




•a a-a S ^^> 

If Nil 

;2; 




8 



8 8 



8 % 



8 8 



35 



O 



881 



9^ 






8 



a 

•s 

I 



a 

o 

o 



OS 

l-i 

a 
o 

l-i 



O i) 

o- 






8 

*?5 



o 










o 



a 

OS 



o 
-55 

I 



OS 



O 



58 



Si 



ii 






ill 
S. SS 
8 1, 



t I; 



Bfik 



MJ 



"la . 
Ill 



I 

1 

I 

s 

l;l 



p 



.;;t' 



NOTES BY THE GENERAL TREASURES. 



'»j 



According to the instructions of the Board, the gtHifnating 
classes of last spring are in this report entered with the unde^ 
graduates, so that for the first time the College subscriptioiis 
stand for four classes. The Alumnae subscription suffisrs fim 
this cause, as for this one year it is not reinforced bom, tbt 
colleges. It has also fallen off in itself 

Within a few months the Association hopes to become legally 
incorporated under the laws of Massachusetts, thereby quali- 
fying itself to receive bequests and to hold real estate. 

Lists of subscribers are submitted on a separate leaflet. 
The summary is as follows : 



IVellesUy . 
Smith . . . 
Vassar . . 
Bryn Mawr 
Annex 



• • ■ 



Wells 



f College Subscription I217 00 

\ Alumnae ** 354 «> 



f College Subscription 256 67 

\ Alumnae '* 442 00 

f College Subscription 198 3^ 

\ Alumnae ** 365 86 

r College Subscription 209 50 

\ Alumnae ** . 104 50 

r College Subscription 87 00 

\ Alumnae ** 63 00 



r College Subscription 65 00 

(Alumnae ** . 105 00 



Packer Collegiate f College Subscription 20 00 

Institute, \ Alumnae *' 85 00 

Cornell 



■ • • 



r College Subscription 55 00 

\ Alumnae '* 85 00 



Swarihmore . 
Elmira . . . 

Mt, Holyoke . 

Other Colleges 
Non-Collegiate 
Donations . . 



f College Subscription 35 00 

\ Alumnae ** 65 00 



$55x00 
69B«7 
564 19 
314 00 
150 00 
170 00 
IQ5 00 
140 00 



r College Subscription 45 00 

\ Alumnae ** 107 00 



— 100 00 



("College Subscription 
t Alumnae ** 



80 00 
40 00 



152 00 



120 00 

70 00 

1,055 00 

391 00 



CORNELIA WARREN, Treasurer, 
60 



14,58086 






3 

i 




I hereliy ijivc. dcvisr act! t)c<iucttth thtr«nu of 

dollar I in case of a f^ft otbia- than moacy state the onitde or 
piccr cff property intcndol to \x given i to the College Settle* 
mKata Assodatioo, iucttrporatal undez tbe laws of Maf^achn- 
wttft. its succnson and astagn? ■btottody. 




ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



College Settlements 

Association, 



FROM SEPTEMBER 1. 1893. TO SEPTEMBER 1, 1894. 




PHILADELPHIA: 

DUNLAP PRINTING COMPANY 

1 306-8-10 Filbert Street, 

1894. 



INOEX. 

PACE. 

Officers and Klectors 3-4 

Committee on Fellowships 4 

Local Flxecutive Committees 5 

Committees on Residents, 5 

Report of Electoral Board 6-9 

Repfjrt of Fellowship Committee, lo-ii 

General Treasurer's Report, 12-15 

Rep»jrt of New York Settlement, i6-«5 

Report of Philadelphia Settlement, 26-58 

Report of Boston Settlement, 59-49 



COLLEGE SETTLEMENTS ASSOCIATION, 



ELECTORAL BOARD. 



President^ 



Mrs. Adaline Emerson Thompson, 

41 Chestnut Street, East Orange, N. J. 

Vice President, Miss M. Katharine Jones, 

Englewood, N. J. 

Secretary, Miss Caroline L. Williamson, 

3230 Michigan Avenue, Chicago, 111. 

Treasurer, Miss Cornelia Warren, 

67 Mt. Vernon Street, Boston, Mass. 



College. 



Wellesley, 



Name and Address. 



Smith, 



Vassar, 



Bryn Mawr^ 



RadcliJBfe, 



Wells, 



Packer Institute^ 



Cornell 

Universityy 



Swarthmare, 



Term of 

Office 

Expires. 



' Miss Caroline L. Williamson, W. '89, ) ,^ 

3230 Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111. | ^ 

Miss Helen James, W. *95, | , 

Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. ) ^^ 

Mrs. Helen Rand Thayer, S. '84, f , >; 

122 State St., Portsmouth, N. H. f ^ 

Miss Amy Owen Aldrich, S. '95, | , 

Smith College, Northampton, Mass. j ^^ 

' Miss Mary Vida Clark, V. '93, ) ,^ 

26 Maple St., Springfield, Mass. J ^ 

Miss Edith Holmes, V. '95, f , 

Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. J ^^ 



Miss Susan Walker, B. M. '03, 

Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa. 
Miss Pauline Goldmark, B. M. '96, 

Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa. 

Miss Grace McCurdy, R., 

Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 
Miss Adile Oppenheimer, R. '96. 

2 Berkeley Place, Cambridge, Mass. 

Miss Jeanet Loomis, Wells, 



'95 
'95 

'96 
»96 



Attica, N. Y. | '^ 
Mrs. Anna A. Piutti, Wells '77, ) ,,^ 

Wells College, Aurora, N. Y. j ^ 



Miss Edna S. Doughty, P. '91, 

289 Washington Ave., Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Miss Florence Anderson, P. ' 



St.', 



1169 Dean St., Brooklyn, N. Y. 

Miss Amelia Shapleigh, 

168 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass. 
Miss Bertha Howell, C. '95, 

Sage College, Ithaca, N. Y. 

' Miss Hannah Clothier, S'more, 
Miss Jane C. Shaw, S'more, 



Wynnewood, Pa. 
Swarthmore, Pa. 



'95 
'96 

'96 
'95 

'96 



COIXBCB. 



Klmira, 



Ml. Holyoke, 



Woman' i College 
Hallimore, 



Non-Colltgiale, 



Associate 

Afftnhers, 



Namb and 



MiM M. Katharine Jones, E. '^ 

Englewood, New Jenej. 
MiM Edith V. Bash, E. '95, 

Elmira CoUeKe, Elmirm, N. Y. 

Miss Ellen N. Shepard,Mt. H., 

South Orange, N. J. 
Miss Bertha Terrill, Mt., H. '95, 

Mt. Holyoke College, S. Hadley, 



^ 



Miss M. Allen Patten, W. C. B. '95, 

2jas N. Calvert St., Baltimore, Md. 



Miss M. Katharine Spear, W. C. B. 'q6, 
Woman's College, St. Paul St., Baltimore, Md. 

Mrs. liarriet Mi not Laushlin, 

74 Carver St., Boston, Mass. 
MIhh May Brown, 

Bright Hurst, Orange, New Jersey. 

MiHS Cornelia Warren, 

67 Mt. Vernon St., Boston, Bfass. 
MIhs Vida D. Scudder, S. '84, 

250 Newbury St., Boston, Mass. 
MisH Ida Wood, V. '77, 

2<n8 Spring Garden St., Philadelphia. 
Miss Bertha Haven Putnam, B. M. '93^ 

1503 Madison Ave., Baltimore, Md. 
Mrs. Adaline Emerson Thompson, W. '80, 

41 Chestnut St., E. Orange, N. J. 
Miss Bertha Hazard, V. '79, 

15 Centre St., Roxbury, Mass, 
Mrs. Florence Yost Humphries, C. *88, 

2348 North Twenty-first St., Philadelphia, Pa. 



'^ 
'95. 

'95. 
'95. 

'96. 
'97. 
•97. 
'97. 



STANDING COMMITTEE. 
Miss Adaline Emerson Thompson, Chairman, 
Miss M. Katharine Jones. 
Miss Cornelia Warren, Treasurer. 
Miss Caroline L. Williamson, Secretary. 
Miss Bertha D. Hazard. 



COMMITTEE ON FELLOWSHIPS. 
Miss Mary Alice Knox, Chairman, 

Wellesley College, Wellesley, Mass. 
Mrs. Helen Rand Thayer, 

122 State Street, Portsmouth, N. H. 
Dr. Mary B. Damon, 

1610 Harmon Place, Minneapolis, Minn. 
Miss Helena S. Dudley, 

93 Tyler Street, Boston, Mass. 
Miss Emily Balch, 

Prince Street, Jan^"*-" ^lain, Mass. 



:iVE COMMITTEES APPOINTED BY THE 
ELECTORAL BOARD, 

NEW YORK SETTLEMENT. 
95 Rivington Street. 
Mrs. Charles B. Spahk, Chairman, agj East Tenth Street, New York City. 
Miss Elizabeth F. Johnson, General Secretary, 

80 Park Street, Monlclair, N. J. 
Miss Bertha Haven Putnam, Secretary on Sestdents, 

1503 Madison Avenue, Baltimore, Md. 
Miss Laora Billings, Treasurer, 379 Madison Avenue, New York City. 
Dr. Jane E. Robbins, Head Worker, 93 Rivington Street, New York City. 
MiHs Laura Wheeler, . . 17W. Forty-fourth Street, New York City. 
Miss Grace Darling, .... ags E, Tenth Street, New York City. 



PHILADELPHIA SETTLEMENT. 
617 Carver Street (Formerly St. Mary Street). 

(. J. Rodman Paul, Chairman, 903 Pine Street. 

Miss Susan P. Wharton, Secretary, . . . gio Clinton Street. 

Miss Hannah Fox, Secretary on Residents, 339 South Broad Street. 

Mr. Jones Wister, Treasurer 357 South Fourth Street. 

Miss Katharine B. Davis, Wforf I^<ir*ei-, . . , 617 Carver Street. 

Miss Louisa G. Davis, jiii Delancey Place. 

Miss Emilv S. Richards, .... 5343 Ross Street, Gerroantown. 



BOSTON SETTLEMENT. 
Den i son House, 93 Tyler Street. 
Miss Katharine Coman, Chairman, .... Wellesley, Mass. 
Miss Helen Chbbvbh, Secretary, . . 557 Boylaton Street, Boston. 
Hiss Amelia Shapleiqh, Secretary on Residents, 

93 Tyler Street, Boston, Mass. 
Mrs. W. B. KeHEW, Treasurer, .... 317 Beacon Street Boston. 
Miss Helena S. Dudlev, Head SVorker, . . 93 Tyler Street Boston. 
Miss Cobnblia Warben, .... 67 Mt. Vernon Street, Boston. 

Hrb. J. T. Prince, West Newton, Mass. 

MiSB ZiLPHA Smith, Room 41, Chardon St., Building, Chardon St., Boston. 

Applications for residence in the New York Settlement should be made to 
Miss Bertha H. Putnam, 1504 Madison Ave., Baltimore, Md. Board will not 
exceed $S.oo. 

Applications for residence in the Philadelphia Settlement should be made 
to Miss Hannah Fox, 339 S. Broad St., Philadelphia. Board will not exceed 

Applications for residence In the Boston Settlement should be made to Miss 
I Amelia Shapleigh, 93 Tyler St., Boston, Mass. Board will ni 



REPORT OP ELECTORAL BOARD. 

In these days when social college and university settlements 
are springing up in many large cities of this country, by twos 
and threes even, in this time when the works of Edward Deni- 
son and of Arnold Toynbee are bearing fruit a hundredfold, 
when the ideal of the movement in which settlements play a 
part is becoming more and more widely known, and when the 
universal brotherhood and mutual helpfulness for which settle- 
ments stand are discussed in many diverse ways by many kinds 
of people, it would be superfluous to add to what has already 
been said in previous reports in regard to the origin and aims 
of the College Settlements Association. Daily the work grows, 
and possibilities for enlarged activities appear much more rap- 
idly than there are funds or workers to meet them. 

During the past year the Association has been incorporated 
under an especial act of the Massachusetts I/Cgislature, in order 
that the Association might have the power to receive moneys 
and hold property. 

The work of the three settlements of the Association in New 
York, Philadelphia, and Boston has been expanding in many 
directions as well as following old paths. By investigation of 
the separate reports of each Settlement it will be seen that a new 
factor appears in the prominence of relief work — ^attempts to 
meet the distress arising from the financial crisis and industrial 
situation. Each Settlement has co-operated more or less with 
municipal authorities, and each has worked along special lines, 
striving to adapt them to the distinctive demands of each neigh- 
borhood. These attempts have been more or less tentative and 
wholly inadequate to the situation. The experience of last 
winter and an increase of funds through the friends of the 
Association will help to secure more far-reaching results in the 
coming season, which promises to be one of continuous hard- 
ship. Those to whom the Settlements have been able to lend a 
helping hand in connection with the Relief Work have not been 
members of the pauper or tramp class for the most part, but 
have been self-respecting, hard-working victims of the indus- 
trial situation, whose patience, wisdom, and self-control 
have seemed remarkable to those who came in contact with 
them. 

In this way and in others the College Settlements have come 
in very direct contact with the working man and woman and 
with organized labor. In every instance, there has been the 
effort to reconcile and not antagonize classes, and always the 
desire to bring into closer and better understanding the ranks 
ir and capital. Many a time there have been very ap- 




prtciable results. Each side has acquired sympathj- 
kiiowledge of the other. Surely all thoughtful people must J 
feel the need of just such effort in these troublous times. To.l 
the Settlements are given unusual opportunities and obligatio 
It is the aim of all actively engaged in the work to meet them I 
in the wisest and most liberal manner. 

In each Settlement the social, educational, and children's! 
work have been enlarged dtiring the winter months, while I 
summer has brought more than the usual number of country I 
outings, a greater amount of fresh air and sunshine to many, 
with supplies of flowers to those confined in dusty city streets. 
General well-being of the neighborhood has received attention 
in efforts toward scientific cookery and sanitation, and it is 
hoped that projects already under way will bring greater 
results in the coming year. 

Among the supporters of the Association there has been 
increased interest. It is more possible to gauge the work of 
the undergraduate chapters than that among the alumuse or 
n on -collegiate members, who are widely scattered. Those col- 
leges which are situated near some one of the Settlements have 
special opportunities. Many have proved most helpful i 
direct work of the Settlements, but, as they themselves state, 
they have gained much more than they gave. 

The Wellesley Chapter has contributed greatly to the Thurs- 
day evenings at Denison House. The Banjo Club, the Shake- 
speare Society, and a group of students who dramatized Little 
Women, as well as those who added to the pleasure of the 
evenings by vocal and instrumental music, met with hearty 
appreciation of the neighbors and residents alike. Twenty- 
three dolls, beautifully dressed, and candy, increased the glories ] 
of the Christmas tree. Flowers were sent. Books have been 
added to the library. Two students from the Chapter helped 
each Saturday afternoon with the chldren. Parties of children 
and older people were entertained during the summer at Wel- 
le-sley. Through the Chapter the College listened to addresses 
from Mi.ss Scudder and from Mr. Woods, of Andover House, 
and further increased the interest by articles and items on the ^ 
Settlements, which appeared in the Wellesley Magazine. 
number of students spent part or whole of vacations at Denison 
House, and were also frequent callers on Mondays. The 
Smith Chapter has the largest number of subscribers and 
the largest aniotmt in subscriptions of any college on the 
Electoral Board, numbering one hundred and eighty-six mem- 
bers and $343.75 in subscriptions. Through an exhibition of 
Madonnas a small sum was raised for the New York Settlement. 
Boxes of toys and clothing were also sent to Rivington Street 
at Christmas. The Chapter received especial interest and 
stimulus from a visit of Miss Scudder to her alma mater and 
from her talks 011 the aims and work of Settlements. Sm 




opportunity for knowledge aud interest will be furnished by the 
College paper, it is hoped. The pressure of academic engage- 
ments has proved a problem to the Vassar Chapter in the mat- 
ter of Settlement meetings, but it has found time to arrange 
pictures of the World's Fair for the Philadelphia Settlement, 
and to send boxes of wild flowers during the spring to Riving- 
ton Street. Baby dresses made by the students have also found 
their way to New York. The Chapter listened to a talk from 
Miss Katharine Davis in April, and several members were re- 
sidents at the Manhasset Summer House. While the full mem- 
bership is smaller, the partial membership has increased. 
Bryn Ma\vr has had a talk from Miss Davis, its Glee Club 
has sung at the Philadelphia Settlement, and, in turn, a club 
from St. Mary Street has been entertained at Brj'U Mawr. 
Boxes of flowers were seut to the Philadelphia Settlement 
throughout the spring. The elector reports no increase in 
membership for the past year, owing to a change in the 
arrangement of the lists of members. For the coming year 
there is a most hopeful outlook. The Radcliffe undergraduate 
elector is discouraged over a decrease in membership, but has 
great reason for encouragment in the persistent work done 
by the students at Denison House. Two went for general 
work with the children on Saturdays, three regidarly on 
the same day for two boys' clubs, and two on Wednesday after- 
noons for little girls' clubs. Interest in settlement work at 
Wells has been kept in a flourishing condition by addresses 
from several more intimately acquainted with the work. 
The Packer Chapter has made good use of its proximity to 
Rivington Street. It has given the proceeds of an enter- 
tainment, sfiSo.oo, to the New York Settlement ; its Glee 
Club have sung at the Woman's Home Improvement Club. 
Members more than once have spent an evening at the 
Rivington Street Settlement, and the elector and usually some 
other member have regularly helped on Library afternoon. 
An address was given by Miss Hall, Assistant Head Worker 
at Rivington Street, and interest further increased by speeches 
from members who had experience in Settlement life, while 
two members of '94 were with the Rosebud Club at the Sum- 
mer Home. The Elmira Chapter has derived stimulus from 
talks by Miss M. K. Jones and a former member of the Chap- 
ter on the work at the New York Settlement, and an address 
from a worker among the poor in Elmira made the need of 
Settlement work in a large city more impressive by comparison. 
Mt. Holyoke has maintained the interest of its members by re- 
ports from electors, and hopes soon to add to that by a ta!k from 
Dr. Robbins. To these a new College Chapter has been added 
"le admission of the Woman's College of Baltimore. Achap- 
E one hundred members, each paying one dollar, has been 
ig the Alumnee and undergraduates, since it was 



found that such a membership was easier to obtain thau twenty 
persons, each paying live dollars. Although this is the young- 
est of the Chapters of the Electoral Board, it has done some 
work among the less fortunate of Baltimore, and has excited 
public interest to the extent of securing an offer of assistance 
when the time should seem right for the establishment of a set- 
tlement in Baltimore. The AlumnEe of Wellesley have formed 
a Chapter and adopted a formal constitution with hope of bet- 
ter organization. 

In this connection it may be well to say that each college 
which has a membership of $100.00 in the College Settlements 
Association may become a part of the Association, with a right 
to two electors. But membership and residence are not re- 
stricted to college students and graduates. Any woman who 
has humanity at heart and would like to contribute in money 
or time is most welcome to membership. 

All these reports from settlements, chapters and fellows are 
most encouraging, but the Association is continually curtailed 
by lack of suf&cient funds and residents. Those who can give 
part of their time are much desired as well as those who can 
give all. The Electoral Board would appeal for increased 
enthusiasm in the colleges, more and larger subscriptions and 
for many more resident and non-resident workers. 

Caroline L. Williamson, 

Secretary Electoral Board, 



lO 



REPORT OP THE COMMITTEE ON FELLOW- 
SHIPS. 

The report of this committee for the year 1892-93 included 
the statement of plans for the year then opening. These plans 
were carried out without change. The three Fellows — Miss 
Ada S. Woolfolk, Wellesley, Miss Isabel Eaton, Smith, and 
Miss Katharine Pearson Woods, non-collegiate — have been able 
to continue their work throughout the year, and all have se- 
cured excellent results. 

Miss Eaton held the Button Fellowship, and took as her 
subject, *' Receipts and Expenses of Wage Earners in the Gar- 
ment Trades." Her investigations were carried on first in 
Chicago, and later in New York. 

Miss Woolfolk held the Upham Fellowship, and investigated 
*'The Obstacles to Sanitary Living Among the Poor.*' Her 
work was done in New York and Boston. 

Miss Woods held a fellowship made up by contributions from 
various persons, and made the subject for her investigations 
* * Diseases and Accidents Incident to Occupations. * ' She re- 
sided first in the Boston and then in the Philadelphia Settle- 
ment. 

All three Fellows have presented the results of their work in 
the form of theses, which have been examined by several mem- 
bers of the committee and by specialists, and found to be satis- 
factory. 

The question returns to this committee with great force on 
the reading of these reports as to what practical use is to be 
made of the information so carefully collected and so clearly 
and forcibly presented. Various requests and propositions for 
the publishing and use of these reports have again been made, 
and the committee would ask the careful consideration of this 
subject by the Board. 

In reviewing the history of the past year and of the year 
before, the committee is forced to the conclusion that the 
amount of work given by our Fellows in their investigations 
and the preparation of their reports is liable to be excessive, 
and it hopes to guard this tendency during the years to come. 

The consideration of the development' of the fellowship work 
has been carried on by the committee, and some advance has 
been made in this direction. 

For the year 1894-95 but one fellowship has been offered, 

owing to lack of funds. The applicants for this were nine in 

number, representing seven schools and colleges — ^viz : The 

Meadville, Pa., Theological School, Smith College, University 

of Michigan^ Bryn Mawr, WeYLesley, Swarthmore, and the 



II 

University of Chicago. Miss Mabel Warren Sanford, Smith, 
'93, has been appointed Fellow for the coming year. 

In view of past experience, the committee would urge elect- 
ors to represent to their constituencies the necessity of a thor- 
ough understanding on the part of the applicants for the fellow- 
ship. Applicants should be sure of their ability to accept the 
appointment, if offered them, before venturing to present their 
names to the committee. 

In closing this brief report, the committee yvould appeal to 
all interested in this most promising experiment in sociological 
work to use their influence to secure funds for a second fellow- 
ship for next year, and it would again ask for suggestions con- 
cerning subjects for investigation and methods of work. 

Mary A1.1CB Knox, 

Chairman of the Committee on Fellowships, 



13 



88 88 



88 
^1 






«9 



1 






^ S 






00 H^ 

Q 



«2 

c 
o 



88 



a 
2 , 



4) .2 « 



o 



5. • o 



H 



H 



00 (/) 

< o 
C 55 

< 

o ^ 

H g 

Si! ^ 

p^ £: 

Si 



^ "^ S o 
e ^ « S at Ou 

Co c So2 

B o P^ o** 

G ^ G «j *J ri 



«5« 



•c 

a 

2 
a 
a 

< 




u 

> 
o 



a 



o too O Qip 

M M O *4 *V00 



8S>8a>8S 



1 



l^3.&!>S8 



> S ;fc rt S2 

> « ^IS « to 



o 
Q 



SB 

2 



8 

4-* 

o 



s 



•I 

. si 



O flS 



o *S 



fill 



j3 :a 



I 




sSsSu 




I 
•8 



«0 

CI 



58 



8 



8 
I 



8 



M 
M 



8S8 



888 



888 88 
8 8 8 »o^ 

rOCt M MM 



C/3 

H 

On 



J8 



V4 

B 



4> 



u 
XI 

XJ 

u 

(0 



S"^ 



^ a 



(A 

XJ 

G 

a 
O 



S 

4> 



ON 

leg" 

2 C S 
e8 a o 

U V4 tt 

o o o 



c4 

a 

u 

XJ 
XJ 

> 

4> 
U 

U 

tn 

G 
O 



a 

-1 
tiS 

4> V 

•M ^ Q 

<JJ5PQ 
9) ^ o 

o o o 



e 



a 



O u 

o S P o 



u 

•a 






H Sg22§2 

Cx«Cx«(x4Cx4 b 



^ I 
I § 



1 

•s 

3 



13 



NO 


!? 


t 


88 


^ 


M 






•I 

J. 

H 

is 

Q 
H 

A* 

X 

CO 



O 






o 

n 



NO 



t 




O 

u 

n 



c 
o 

cn 
O 

n 

e 

a 

'- ft 

00 O 

g ii 

H. 3 

C QQ 

c -r 
o > 

a ^ 

I i 

n ST 
Q 



8 & 



§> 



§• 






G 
U 

ft 



.S «J 



c 
I ^ 

Pk 2 



4> 
U 

c 

.Q 

a 
o 

cn 
4> 
u 

4> 



o 



Q 
< 

-g W 
o 



ft 
o 



G 

o 



XI 

c 

e 
a 

c 

o 
u 

a; 

> 
o 



XI , 



CO 


NO 


H 


M 


<U 


>H 


0) 


V 


;> 


.Q 


c4 


O 


JS 


4^ 


HH 


o 




55 




o 




H 




(0 




O 




n 



b .^ 



14 



SUMMARY. 

Welle^ley Collexe Subscription, $257 50 

Alumnae 417 00 

Smith College Subscription, $313 75 

Alumnse " ^63 00 

80675 

Vassar College Subscription, $166 68 

Alumnae '* 382 00 

54868 

Bryn Mawr College Subscription $189 00 

Alumnae " 233 50 

4»50 

Radcliflfe College Subscription $47 00 

Alumnae " 100 50 

14750 

Wells College Subscription, |68 00 

Alumnae " 85 00 

153 «> 

Packer Collegiate College Subscription, $40 00 

Institute Alumnae " isi 00 

161 00 

Cornell College Subscription, $45 00 

Alumnae " 105 00 

150 00 

Swarthmore CollegelSubscription, . . . , , $11 00 

Alumnae ** 05 00 

106 00 

Elmira College Subscription, $45 00 

Alumnae " 93 00 

'■— 138 00 

Mount Holyoke College Subscription, $95 00 

Alumnae ** 20 00 

I115 00 

nVoman's College College Subscription, $96 00 

of Baltimore Alumnae 4 00 

100 00 

Other Colleges, 125 00 

Non-Collegiate, 1,057 00 

Donations, 30 00 

<4,742 93 



15 



NOTES BY THE GENERAL TREASURER. 

A separate leaflet is sent with this report to all subscribers, 
containing lists of members of the Association and also of sub- 
scribers to the individual Settlements. 

The Association has within the past year become incorporated 
under the laws of Massachusetts. On the cover of this report 
is given a form of bequest. 

Three hundred dollars has been given to the new corporation 
as the beginning of a permanent fund. 

To our friends, collegiate or non-collegiate, who are will- 
ing to help us with money we suggest the following methods. 
First of all, we are anxious to build up a large membership, the 
dues being five dollars annually. For larger sums, we are glad 
of subscriptions towards our Fellowships of three hundred a 
year, for in this way we can draw to the work valuable helpers 
who are not otherwise to be had ; and, lastly, subscriptions to 
our permanent fund. 

The Association appreciates as highly support given to the 
Settlements individually by those whose interest is enlisted more 
particularly in the needs of one neighborhood. The actual 
workers will gladly point out ways in which their special enter- 
prises can be assisted, either with money or with the still more 
valued personal co-operation, and residents are always needed, 
both from our colleges and from outside. 

CoRNKWA Warren. 



If* 



NEW YORK 

REPORT OF HEAD WORKER 

SUMMARY OF ORGANIZED WORK. ' 

The Rosebud Club. — Girls from seven to twelve years of 
age. Sewing, g>'ninastics, singing and games. 

The Rainbow Club.— <>irls from ten to fourteen years of 
age. Sewing, g\'mnastics, singing and games. 

The Anti-Cigarette Club. — Boys from ten to twelve 
years of age. Gymnastics and g^mes. 

The Clan Alpine. — Boys from twelve to sixteen years of 
age. Talks, g>'mnastics and .singing. 

The Good Seed Society. — (Sundaj') sixty to eighty young 
children. Stor>'-telling and singing. 

The Clean City League. — Boys from ten to fourteen years 
of age. Talks and singing. 

The Kindergarten. - -Fifty children. 

The Butterfly Club. — Graduates from the Kindergarten. 
Sewing and knife work. 

The Busy Bees. — Recent graduates from the Kindergarten, 
advanced work. 

The Penny Provident Bank. — (DailjO- 

Yard Day. — (Saturday). 

Classes for Children : 
A kitchen-garden class. 
A sewing class. 
A drawing class. 

The Young Keystones. — Boys from fifteen to eighteen. 
Talks, singing and games. 

The Choral Club. — ^Young men. 

The a. O. V. Club. — ^Young women from fifteen to twenty 
years of age. Singing, gymnastics and dancing, classes in 
embroidery, drawing, English and cooking. 

The Womens' Home Improvement Club. — ^Talks, music, 
a social meeting. 

Meeting of the Kindergarten Mothers. — Fortnightly. 

The Teacher's Meeting. — Public school teachers and 
residents. Fortnightly lectures alternately with a class in litera- 
ture. 

Library. — Boys and giuls from ten to twenty years of age. 
Exchanging of books, games, a reading table and the Cozy 
Comer. 

A club for young working girls is soon to be organized. 



We believe more and more that the most important part of ] 
our work in Rlvington street is to be " nice ' ' to people. Some- 
times we are asked how it is possible for a young woman who 
stays here only three months to learn enough in that time to be 
of any use, but we find that some of our workers can show a 
great deal of friendliness in a very short time. Though the resi- 
dents are constantly changing, the house itself remains a source 
of dehght, "a house beautiful," as it was called by one of the 
little girls. The other day one of the younger boys said very 
impressively, " It's two years to-morrow since I first got ac- 
quainted with that house." Every year it is more and more 
difficult to keep clearly before our minds and before the minds 
of those interested in our work this idea of being a company 
of young women gathered together in a hospitable home for 
the sake of being * ' nice ' ' to tho.se who have had fewer oppor- 
tunities, and to share with them the best that each of us has to 
offer. So much is said about sociological study and the investi- 
gation of the problems of the day that it is sometimes necessary 
for us to remind ourselves that our first duty is to be " a kind 
of a sister " to the boys and girls, and a helpful friend to the 
whole family. The way of friendship, it seems to us, is the 
only one by which we can ever come to a true understanding 
of the life of our neighbors, and a warm personal feeling helps 
to make clear many an obscure point. 

There often comes to the workers here a new capacity for 
being friendly. It ought to be very easy for any one to ex- 
press by word and act simple friendliness, but many of us have 
become so hampered by conventionality that our efforts are very 
bunghng. One result of our work is that no matter whether 
our residents return to their old homes or go to make new 
homes, they carry away with them an increased desire ' ' to 
share up," as the boys say. 

Each year we find ourselves doing more educational work. 
Our LIBRAHY now contains two thousand books, aud to be i 
allowed to join the library is a coveted privilege. Ou library 
day there is one room where we have what we call ' the cosy 
comer," and here there is some one ready to tell stories to the 
children, or to talk to the older ones about the general topics 
which interest us all. Seventeen small libraries, each contain- 
ing twenty books, have been distributed in various places, most 
of them being in the public schools, and many of the teachers 
have told us that they have found these Hbraries helpful to 
them in their work. One small child said, "When we sawthe 
books we promised the teacher that we would be good." We 
have foimd a number of opportunities for co-operation with the 
teachers. At our Tuesday Afternoon Teachers' Meet- 
ing we have enjoyed two fine courses of lectures, as well as 
several informal talks. In some cases, where the teachers.J 
knew of children having special talent in music awi -ixwMSx 




i8 

tlu'V have sent them to us in order that they might be taught, 
and when the ni^ht schools closed one group of girls was sent 
here in order that they mi^lit go on with their studies. A cal- 
endar, in the fonn of a United States flag, on w*hich was printed 
Mr. Hale's i)atriotic apinral to Iwys to love thein homes and 
their c<mntry, proved so i)opular that we sent two of these cal- 
endars to each teacher in the boys' departments of the public 
schools throughout the city. We heard that the boj's in sev- 
eral of the schools learned the appeal ** by heart," and recited 
it every Friday. If it had been possible, we would have gladly 
given one of these flags to every schoolboy in the citj'. 

The work connected with the Kindergarten can best be 
described by one of the teachers. She says: **The second 
year of the Kindergarten work has made us realize more deeply 
than ever how* natural and vital is this way of reaching the 
homes and the confidences of our neighbors. The teachers 
and mothers have a common interest ; the teachers learn much 
from the mothers to help them in their work, and, in turn, 
they can make many helpful suggestions to the mothers. 
Every two weeks the mothers have met to sing the songs of 
the Kindergarten, listen to a talk on some subject connected 
with the children, or to a story illustrated by magic lantern 
pictures. Many suggestions have been made about the food 
and clothing of the children, and how to keep them busy and 
happy at home : and in many cases these suggestions have 
been carried out w4th good restilts. In Februar>' the members 
of this mothers' club asked if we could not have a dance to 
which both fathers and mothers* could come, and so we had a 
Saint Valentine*s party. There were over fifty present, and 
with music, dancing, and games it was a ver>' merr>' evening. 
When it was half over they made a circle, into which thej" 
brought the teachers and presented each with a basket of beau- 
tiful flowers. One of the number then made an eloquent little 
speech in Gennan, in which she thanked the teachers for all 
that they had done for the children, keeping them from the 
streets, helping them to grow up in the right way, and doing 
for them what they themselves would like to do, if only it were 
in their power. Then they all sang together a German song. 
It was done in a simple and heartj^ way, and was an entirely 
unexpected evidence of their appreciation of our work. 

Doubtless because the teaciers have lived in the house 
where the Kindergarten is, the children have come to regard it 
as their second home. Almost ever>' afternoon some have come 
to play in the yard or the club- room ; we have gradually been 
able to trust them to play quite alone by themselves, and this 
has been a valuable addition to the regular Kindergarten work. 
It has been most interesting to watch the children and see them 
observing more closely, reasoning-, asking questions. We were 
talking about the caterpillar - ^nd remarking that it 



had no bones. " The butterfly has nobonesbut it has wings,'' 
one bttle girl said, " and angels have wings. Have they any 
bones ? ' ' Her younger brother of four told us with great in- 
terest that when his kitty was afraid she made herself just like 
a camel. 

All the children have improved rapidly in manual work. 
Those who were graduated from the Kindergarten the year be- 
fore came two afternoons a week all the year to do advanced 
Kindergarten work. Towards the end of the year, the boys 
were given some simple knife work, and it was found that they 
used their knives as well as boys several years older, who 
had never had manual training, and they were much more 
careful and accurate. All the year the children have been in- 
terested in learning about the farmer and about country life in 
in general, and our excellent yard has been of uutold benefit. 
They watched with eagerness the beautiful crocuses, hyacinths 
and tulips which opened in the spring, to the delight of all our 
neighbors, and they themselves planted seeds and watered 
them even in pouring rain, till we had to call a halt, in order 
to save the plants from drowning. The caterpillars which 
appeared on the vines were a source of wonderful interest, and 
we actually bad butterflies in our back yard. 

In June all the Kindergarten children who wished to go were 
taken to the Summer Home-at Manhasaet, and we gathered a 
party of thirty happy and excited children under six years 
old. When we lauded from the boat and took the wagon, the 
children seemed at once to feel at home. They caught sight 
of a man plougliing, and immediately began to sing about the 
farmer ; they recognized sheep and cows, hens and chickens, 
birds and brooks, and it seemed hardly possible that this was 
the first time that most of them had ever been in the country. 
When we reached the house and they were hfted from the 
wagon, they disappeared as if by magic, rushing all over the 
grounds to*gather daisies and roses and filling their hands to 
their hearts content. It was a happ3' week for the children, 
with little homesickness, and even this short time made them 
look brown aud rosy. 

After our return, though the kindergarten was clo.sed for the 
summer the children hovered around the door hoping to get in. 
One of the boys who had been the roughest and most trouble- 
some all the spring cried out, "Isn't there never going to be 
any more Kindergarten in my world ? Never ? Never ?' ' 

For the teachers it has been a year of li\-iiig with the children, 
and that has made the work frill of interest ajid of hopeful- 
ness. 

The different Clues and Classes have met ever>' afternoi 
and evening and a number of non-resident workers have aided 
us in this work. Three of the older boys' clubs have disbanded 
afi organizations, but the boys are still considered College Set- 



tlenient boys and during the summer we were able to entertain 
nearly all of them at our Country House. During the year two 
new clubs of school boys have been formed, one called The 
Anti-Cigarette Club and the other The Clean City l^esigvLe. 
The League boys have given good evidence of their civic 
patriotism by climbing to the top of one tall tenement after an- 
other, distributing to every family in one hundred and ten 
blocks a circular asking for co-operation in an attempt to make 
this a clean city. It is very natural for the boys to love that 
for which they work, and they sing with great fervor, * * Fair 
City we come in the bloom of our youth. * ' Their favorite 
song, however, is * * No banana peels we throw on the ground, 
ground, ground." It is comparatively' easy to find work for the 
young women, and they have had classes in cooking, sewing, 
nursing and in music and English. The younger girls, of 
course, are always anxious to learn to sew, and they are very 
ready to adopt our ways. We feel that in teaching them we 
are perhaps doing our best work for the homes of the future. 

Our Country House this year at Manhasset on the north 
shore of Long Island has welcomed one hundred and thirty- 
five of the young people. They have been there for nearly two 
weeks at a time in parties of twenty, and other have spent 
Sunday there. A summer home is really the ideal Settlement. 
At our Rivington Street house we have pictures and flowers 
and music, but at our country house, beauty is on every side, 
even the younger children after their return to the city speak of 
the sunsets. The house was on a hill among trees, on one side 
woods and on the other a beautiful view of the water. Some 
of the children had been away with us for four years and their 
reminiscences showed very clearly how much it meant to them. 
There were four residents at a time at the country house, and 
even a larger number could find unusual opportunities for 
making friends. From all parts of our city children are sent 
by the hundreds to enjoy a fortnight in the countfy. Every- 
body sees the great physical bend&ts to be derived from fresh 
air and good food, but only a few have grasped the idea that 
the summer outing may bring to the children an opportunity 
to know refined, educated people in the close intimacy of family 
life. 

A large part of the work of this year has grown out of the 
terrible distress of the unemployed. Through August and 
September of 1893 the people lived on their scanty savings, 
and when these were exhausted they borrowed from their 
friends or pawned their furniture and clothing ; each day the 
conditions grew worse and more men were thrown out of work 
through no fault of their own. The men searched fruitlessly 
for work and the women, with terror in their hearts, watched 
the children grow thin and pale. It was a time of horror for 
us all. Only the most positive determination to keep our 



minds away from any suffering that we could not relieve j 
made it possible for us to do our work. In November a meet- 
ing was called at the Settlement to consider what method of 
relief should be adopted. The East Side Relief Work Com- 
mittee, composed of representatives of different churches and 
charitable societies in our neighborhood, was organized, and 
the problems to be met were carefully considered. We were 
especially anxious to help those workingmen who had never 
before knoWn want, and who would be exceedingly unwilling 
to receive alms. After nearly a month of constant consulting, 
two forms of work were undertaken, work in a tailor shop 
Started for this pm-pose, and work at sweeping the streets. 
One of the residents was a member of the Shop Committee, 
another was a member of the Committee on Street Sweeping. 
At first the men working on the streets came to our house for 
their brooms and again at night to be paid, and they were 
sometimes spoken of as "the College Settlement men." At 
the end of the first month the number of the men employed 
had increased to over a hundred, so that it was necessar>- to 
hire an office and place a clerk in charge. In the beginning, 
the street cleaning work brought us into direct contact with 
the men, and by attending personally to the details we were 
able to establish the work on a friendly as well as a business 
basis, and to give a tone of friendliness to the whole work, 
which existed even after there was a force of eight hundred 
men employed. One enthusiastic workingman said; "They 
treat us all as if we were millionaires, and they do it without 
any effort." We regretted very much being obliged to offer 
the men a kind of work that was as distasteful to them as street 
sweeping necessarily was, but it was the onh' kind of work 
that could be started that would not interfere with other work, 
and at which men of every trade could be employed. The 
men worked seven hours a day and were paid one dollar. 
They secured their work by means of tickets which were issued 
to the churches, charitable societies and trade unions of the i 
East Side, and they, in turn, gave to those men whom they 
knew to be in need. A special point was made of giving to 
the trade unions, because we wished to show that we believed 
in organized labor, and because we wished to conform, as much 
as we could, to the desires of those whom we were trj'ing to 
help. Many of the men appreciated what we did for them, 
and showed their appreciation by painstaking carefulness. It 
may be interesting to note that the East Side Relief Work 
Committee expended one hundred and twenty thousand dollars 
in giving about a hundred thousand days work to over five 
thousand heads of families. 

In addition to the more general work of the Committee, the 
Settlement took an active part in the distribution of tickets, 
and many cases were carefully investigated. It was vttfex^ 





22 

to obsen'e. that among the hundreds of people whom we came 
to know this year for the first time, there were hardly any who 
were not really needing help. The fact that we are a part of 
the life of our neighborhood seems to protect us from fraud, 
and to make it easy for us to gain information. In December 
several of the residents helped to make a canvas from house to 
house to find out the number of the unemployed ; five hundred 
families were visited, and statistics as to their condition were 
obtained. 

During the winter our attention was accidentally called to 
the fact that the peddlers who have push-carts were paying a 
regular weekly contribution to the policemen on their beat, 
and one of our older boys obtained definite information, which 
we were able later to lay before the Superintendent of Police, 
and as a result of this information several policemen were 
arrested, and this illegal practice, a source of injustice to 
hundreds of people, was abandoned. 

The tailor strike in September of this year has given us a 
chance to show our interest in the industrial question. A 
meeting was called at the Settlement to consider what could 
be done to help the strikers in their struggle against the 
sweating system. As a result of this meeting a committee 
waited on the sub-contractors and urged them to \4eld to the 
demands of the men, and another committee met the represen- 
tatives of the Manufacturers Association, and asked them to 
help the tailors in their efforts to gain a ten hour daj' and a 
minimum weekly wage. The committees probably succeeded 
in influencing to some extent public sentiment in favor of the 
men, and the strikers from first to last had the entire sympathy 
of the communit3\ 

Every year our neighborhood becomes more and more dis- 
tinctly Polish and Russian. Many of the families that we have 
known best have moved away, and a number of our club mem- 
bers come four miles regularly to attend their club meetings. 
The new houses that are being built are ver>' large, and some 
of the houses contain the population of a small village. Our 
work is a very small one, but we see changes for the better in 
individual residents and in certain of the 3'oung people, and 
we believe that it is at least a step in the right direction. 

The total number of residents, including those who were 
here for a short time only, was fifty-five. Through most of 
the winter the family consisted of eleven regular workers, and 
six of these had been here for a previous year. 

The following is a list of residents during the year. 

residents in new YORK SETTLEMENT. 
Miss Emily C. Brownell,Vassar '80 . . July. 

Miss Mary E. Bunce April. 

Miss Susan G. Chester, Vassar' 88 . . November. 

Miss Lydia D. Cady, Boston Univ, '88 . November to June. 

Miss Grace Darling, Vassar ... September to July. 



23 



Miss Suvia Davison, Smith 

Miss Carol D. Dresser, Wellesley, 90' 

Miss Isabel Eaton, Smith, '88 

Miss Alice Hansell 

Miss Amy P. Hall .... 

Miss Laura Maxwell .... 
Miss Elizabeth R. Poppleton, Vassar, '76 
Dr. Jane E. Robbins, Smith, . 
Miss Lillie D. Robbins 
Miss Lillian M. Skinner, Smith, '91 
Miss Margaret M. Taylor, Smith, '91 . 
Miss Augusta T. Tappan .... 
Miss Elizabeth Trask .... 
Miss Mary G. Trask, .... 

Miss Clara G. Wolcott, Smith, '83 
Miss Ada S. Woolfolk, Wellesley, '91 . 



January to March. 

December to April. 

January to July. 

January to March. 

September to July. 

December to April. 

August. 

September to September. 

September to September. 

October to January. 

October to February. 

June. 

September to July. 

September to July. 

April. 

October to March. 



Looking back over the past twelve months, it seems to us 
that our best work has not been in the more public work so 
much as it has been in our quiet everyday life of friendliness. 

Jank E1.IZABETH Robbins. 



■A 

'A 






5 






A 






• 










-A 






S, SRS, 



SJfsaaa' ?*as8S| 



ill-,, -.-.^...,=:=..^ 



_ s 
is; 



8 



26 



PHILADELPHIA SETTLEMENT. 

REPORT OF HEAD "WORKER. 

St. Mary Street and the neighborhood of the Philadelphia 
Settlement have been so vividly described in preceding reports, 
that no introductory is necessar>'^ to acquaint our friends with 
the outside characteristics of our environment. As to our own 
work we beUeve our second year to have been one of steady 
though quiet growth. 

Our acquaintance with the neighborhood and its various 
organizations of a social or philanthropic character has widened, 
as have also our pleasant relations with individual neighbors, 
within an increasing radius. An ever-growing number of peo- 
ple without reference to nationality or religious creed, have 
come to look upon our home and the Settlement Hall as a cen- 
ter for the higher life of this part of the city. Various favor- 
able circumstances have conspired during the past winter to 
bring us more closely in touch with people of all classes, and 
this has enabled us to extend our usefulness in several direc- 
ticns, while still carrying on the work already begun. 

Though by no means the most important, that part of our 
work which can be most easily reported upon is that of the 
clubs and classes, the bank, the Kindergarten, the library, the 
lectures and, in general, all those engagements which we meet 
regularly. 

Until the first of June the Library was conducted on the 
same lines as indicated in the last report. We had 208 mem- 
bers, children and young people from 8 to 18, who came on 
Monday and Wednesday evenings and Saturday A. M. to make 
their selections from our 888 volumes. Believing that a larger 
library would be well used and appreciated in this neighbor- 
hood, in the spring our Executive Committee made overtures 
to the trustees of the Free Library of Philadelphia with a view 
to securing a branch of that Library at the Settlement. This 
Branch is now an accomplished fact. The room on the first 
floor of the Stuart Memorial Hall, formerly used as a kitchen, 
has been tastefully fitted up for a library and reading room. 
Fifteen hundred volumes have been put upon the shelves, 
which number will be increased as fast as the circulation grows. 
A Librarian is supplied by the Free Library of Philadelphia, 
and the room is open on week days from i to 9 P. M. and on 
Sundays from 10 A. M. to 6 P. M. The tables are supplied 
with all the popular magazines and many of the best weeklies. 
At the time of writing the Library has been open to the public 
only a week. But already we find our faith justified in the use 



made of the privilege. Four hundred and Kvenly -^x V>ooks 
were taken oat that first week, and of these a gvxxlly mimber 
were history and biography, several were tra\'els. literature 
and science. As was to be expected, the tnajoriU" ■.^' tlwww 
joining the first week were children, bnt the mimbcr of adults 
increases daily. On the firet Sunday 30 people enjoj-td the 
privileges of the reading room. 

Beginning October 18, Librarian John Thomson of the Free 
Library of Philadelphia will give a course of six leclvires, on 
alternate Thuredays, abont books and their use, in the Sfttlc- 
ment Halt. 

The Games played with the children on Saturday inoniiiigS 
in the old librarj- were so enjoyed by theni and were, we think, 
so beneficial, that the Hall will be opened to Ihcm cvcty 
Saturday morning through the winter this year, YouiiR 
women wHll be there to play with them and by .shitrin)^ their 
games, help them to more gentle manners and p-cater wlf- 
control. 

The B.4NK, a branch of the Theodore Starr Ptnuy Savingn 
Bank, has. as during last year, been open from seven to eight 
every evening in the week except Sunda\'. The largt! majority 
of the depositors are children and the individual dej-xwits MnuU, 
the largest during the past \'ear being $9.45. There has been 
a considerable increase in the total amount deposited during 
the present year over last year, and as the niinibcr of deiKisttors 
who have put into our hands $513.06. The Social Hmir lius 
not grown, the average individual dei>osits havir Iicl'U larKtT. 
There are at present 505 depositors connected witli the Hunk 
adds much to its popularity. A Branch Bank has been c«- 
tablished at the James Forten Elementary Mannnl Trniniun 
School. 

Mr. Whitehead has again betn ihe efficient teacher in the 
Carpenter Shop where, on four evenings in the week, orae- 
tical lessons in the use of tool? and in simple carpentry liuvc 
been given to a class of eleven colored boyst. The charge for 
lessons is fifteen cents per month, and fines never excvvdintf 
ten cents are charged for misconduct. Several boys have liteii 
in the shop two years, and are quite skillful in the milking "f 
such articles aa book-shelves, step-ladders, etc. These iirliclM 
are sold wherever possible, the boya receiving the profits. Of 
the eleven members of the class, two have been (Iroppt^ for 
lack of interest, one has died. One ptipll, J. Anderwm, «lc- 
se^^■es special mention, as he has been present at ever>' <inc uf 
the 147 sessions — from Octol»er 2, 1H9.1, to June rH, iK(;4, 
The average attendance has lx:en six, and the iiuniljcr of 
articles made during the year sc\-enly three. Tin- Iwiys vAA 
work to the \-a!ue of J29.35, They liave jiairf $M due* anil f 
fines. There remains unsold in shop work valued ol^* 

Orders for work within the abilities of the r'~* 



28 

gladly received, and prove a great incentive to regular attend- 
ance and good conduct. 

Heretofore the classes in the shop have been composed 
entirely of colored lx)ys. As a number of white boys have 
applied for admission, the plan of having two classes meeting 
each two evenings a wtx-k has been decided upon. No boys 
under fourteen years of age are to be admitted. 

The Women's Sewing Club, formed during the previous 
winter, was continued this last year. The class has been in 
the charge of a resident assisted by a non-resident helper. It 
met weekly from October until May, between the hours of 2 
and 4 P. M. The afternoons were pleasantly spent in sewing 
and reading aloud. Miss Wilkins' short stories were particu- 
larly enjoyed. A lunch of tea and doughnuts was served 
before the close of each meeting. Through the kindness Of 
friends we were able to pay $80.45 for work done. Most of 
the garments made were for various charitable institutions 
which tuniished the material or sent the clothing to us ready 
cut. There were sixteen women in the class, twelve of whom 
attendee! reg^ilarly. 

The Little Helpers, a club of ten girls, had a pleasant 
and profitable winter. The preparation of Christmas gifts 
occupied most of the fall, and it is certain that the gifts they 
themselves received did not give them half as much pleasure 
as did the aprons which they made for their mothers, or the 
pleasant surprises they gave the residents of the College Settle- 
ment on Christmas morning. Having a confederate in the 
person of their leader. Miss Richards, they filled the stocking^ 
which the residents had been requested to hang at the fire- 
place, and woke them early on Christmas morning by the 
singing of a pretty carol on the stairs. Later in the year they 
made little night dresses, which they carried to children in the 
hospitals. 

The Dudley Pioneer Corps continued its weekly meetings 
and drills until late in the fall, when, owing to internal dissen- 
sions, it disbanded. 

Several new clubs have been started, usually in response to 
requests. Thus the younger boys, fired by the successful 
drilling of the Pioneer Corps, asked to be allowed to form a 
company. The organization of the Davis Cadets was the 
result. Through the winter they met one evening in the week 
for military drill, kindly given them by a member of the Phila- 
delphia Naval Battalion. On another evening of each week 
they resolved themselves into a Business Club, where they re- 
ceived instructions in the art of calling, organizing and con- 
ducting business meetings in accordance with Parliamentary 
principles. They also gave some time to the study of the lives 
of great men. At present they are stii'^"^*^^' Julius Caesar 
through the medium of Shakespeare. 



The Tyndaxl Club numbers twelve members, older boys 
verging on manhood, who are organized for the study of 
science. At present they are pursuing au elementary course 
in Chemistry, using as a text-book William's Eleme'ntary 
Chemistry. A room is being gradually fitted up as a labora- 
tory, and through the kindness of friends it has been possible 
for them to perform most of the experiments described in their 
text -books. 

The Monday Evening Reading Club, consisting of ten 
young women, met weekly in the Settlement parlors to read 
and discuss various American authors. The eveniugs were 
very enjoyable, and it is hoped that the course may be yet 
more profitable during the coming winter. 

The Daisy Chain is a flourishing club of twenty girls, from 
the ages of 12 to 16, who meet once a week for " improvement 
and amusement," as their constitution states. They write 
essays, take part in debates, study some of our famous poets, 
listen to talks about travels or pictures, and then spend a social 
hour with music, games, or dancing. This club is entirely 
self-goveniing, having its own officers and committees. One 
resident is a member. One of the pleasantest events of the 
winter was a party given by the Daisy Chain Club to the young 
Women's Arena Club, at which a short drama was very cleverly 
presented by some dozen members of the club. 

A Gymnastic Club for girls was organized late in the winter 
by Miss McCarty, of the Temple College Gymnasium. A 
donation of Indian clubs and wands from the pupils of this 
gymnasiiun, and the loan of dumb-hells and rings by Miss 
Judkins, furnished the means for excellent class drill ; but, 
owing to the lack of grading, the work accomplished was not 
altogether satisfactory in its results, though it was a perfect 
success viewed from the point of enjoyment derived by the 
pupils. We hope to be able, guided by the experience gained, 
during the coming winter to classify the pupils and systematize 
the work so that more definite results may be reached. 

The Co-operative Coal Club began in a small way, but 
has g^own rapidly, and promises to be of much value in a neigh- 
borhood where it has been customary to buy coal by the 
bucket. The club now numbers 162 members. Coal is bought 
by the car-load directly from the mine ; stored in a coal-yard 
and delivered in ton, half-ton, and quarter-ton lots. The 
amount paid for storage and delivery, added to the cost price, 
makes the total cost about one dollar less than the retail price. 
The stamp savings system is employed. Each member deposits 
at least five cents per week, and coal is delivered whenever the 
savings cover the price. Some of the members deposit at the 
Theodore Starr Savings Bank on South street, others at the 
Coppin School, and still others are called upon weekl" " 
member of the Visitors' Club, who takes their saving; 



The Visitors' Club, which is an outgrowth of the Coal 
Club, meets at the settlement twice a month. Short papers are 
prepared and read by members of the club, or by representa- 
tives of other organizations. This is followed by discussion. 
The object is to become acquainted with the various institutions 
and philanthropic organizations in this part of the city, in 
order that we may co-operate with them whenever possible. 

The Kindergarten began with the Summer Kindergarten 
of 1893. I^ ^^^ ^^^^ i^ was found on investigation that the 
kindergartens of the neighborhood were full to overflowing, 
and that still many children were playing in the streets. An 
appeal to the Board of Education resulted in the opening, No- 
vember I, 1893, o^ ^ Kindergarten in the Settlement Hall, witk 
one teacher paid by the City, and an assistant provided by the 
Settlement. The average attendance through the winter was 
26. The teachers made many calls upon the mothers of the 
children to urge regularity. The marked influence which the 
kindergarten has had on the little ones has been one of the 
pleasures of the past year. The days of the Christmas party 
and of the June picnic were red-letter days for the little ones 
and their friends. 

During July and August the Board of Education paid for 
two teachers, and there was an average daily attendance of 68- 
in July and 70 in August. The fall work has begun with an 
enrollment of 56 and an average attendance of 40. 

During the summer of 1893 ^^^ Vesper Sevices, formerly 
held in the Settlement parlors, were transferred to the hall, and 
were conducted with the co-operation of the young men of the 
University Settlement. As time went on the audience became 
more and more largely composed of young chfldren. Through 
the fall a series of talks on Old Testament History was given, 
illustrated by stereopticon views. The children soon began to 
tire of these, and in view of the fact that other illustrated talks 
were being gpiven in the neighborhood, thus furnishing them 
abundant means of entertainment, it was decided to make the 
exercises of such a character as to interest the older people. 
The result was that in April a series of Sunday evening lec- 
tures was begun, which has proved ver>^ successful. The talks 
have been chiefly ethical in character, although several treated 
of municipal government, and various reforms have been intro- 
duced. As the seating capacity of our hall is limited, it has 
been necessary to exclude children on Sunday evenings. 

The program up to October i has been as follows : 



April I. Municipal Reform, .... Mrs. Herbert Welsh. 

8. Some Facts About Our Government, Mr. Du Bois Miller. 

15. True Riches, Mr. Charles Fleischer. 

22. Single Tax, Mr. H. V. Hetzel. 

29. The Knights of Labor, Mr. Schonfaeber. 

May 6. Importance of a Soap Bubble, Dr. Spivak. 

" 13. The Silent Member in Meetings, . Mr. Chas. Daniels. 



it 
ti 
ti 




■'Who is Our Neighbor?" . 

Socialism vs. Individualism, . 

Short Informal Addresses 

The Use of the Beautiful, 

The Advantages of Organized Labor 

Food, 

What is True Freedom, 
Some Truths of Sanitation, 
Beautiful Things with the Tele- 
Microscope, 

Pure Gold i Given Away, 

Our City Government, 

Moving Things and Beautiful 

A Storv, .' . ' . 

Naturalization 

How to Become a Citizen, 

Self Reliance, '.".".*.' 
The Great Concern of 
Stephen Girard, 
Story of a Great Life, 



Dc. C. Fleischer. 
Prof. F. W. Spiers. 
Mr. Jacob Lychenheim. 
Katharine Pearson Woods, 
Dr. S. M. Ives. 



Prof. D. S. Holman. 
Mr. E. W. Mumford. 
Dr. M. V. BaU. 



e People, 



r. Spiv, 
Mr. D. W. Amran. 
Mrs. Ella Reeve Ware. 
Mr. Herbert Drake. 
Dr. A. M. P. Leuf. 
Dr. M. V. Ball. 
Mr. Morris Lychenheim. 



CSrowing out of the Sunday evening lectures have come our 
Citizenship Club and our Eughsh Class. The former is a 
club of men who at first remained for half an hour after the 
lecture for discussion and listen to explanations of matter per- 
taining to the government and citizenship, and the subjects 
treated of in the lectures. They are now organized with regu- 
lar officers and have begun a course of systematic study of the 
Constitution of the United States. 

The English Class meets two evenings in the week. Its 
object is to teach men and women, especially men who desire 
to become citizens, to read and write English, They are 
dividM into small groups, each in charge of a voluntary 
teacher. 

A pleasant feature of the year's work has been our co-opera- 
tion with other organizations. Early in the fall two of the 
residents joined the Young Women's Ahena Club, an organi- 
zation of over one hundred young women, meeting each week 
at 230 Pine street. Under the presidency of Miss Diana 
Hirsher, the winter with the dub has been both interesting 
and profitable. 

During the winter, a series of six lectiures was held under 
the anspides of this club, at the College Settlement Hall. All 
were well attended, and at some there was not even standing 
room. Children were not admitted. 

The lectures were as follows : 

Thursday, Feb. 15, A Bird's Eye View of the 

World's Fair, , . Miss Ella Jacobs. 

" " 21. Art at the Fair, . . Rev. Henry Berkowitz. 

" March 1. Foreign Peoplesattbe Fair, Miss Katharine B. Davis. 

M. Around the World . . Dr. M. V.BuU. 
29. A Trip to the Hawaiian 

Islands, .... Dr. Benjamin Sharp. 

April 5. A Trip to Yosemite Valley, Mr. W. N, Jennings. 

^9nd recitations by members of the j 



32 

their friends usually preceded or followed the lectures, and 
beautiful illustrations were furnished by Prof. D. S. Holman 
with his fine tele-microscope. 

Among the social events of the year at the Settlement Hall 
have been the party given by the Arena Club on Thanksgiving 
Eve ; the party and dramatic entertainment given by the 
Daisy Chain to the Arena Club, in the Spring ; and the cele- 
bration of the anniversary of the formation of the Arena Club, 
held in June. 

From the last of September until the last of June, on every 
Tuesday evening, a concert was given to the children, under 
the auspices of Thb Culture Extension League. Tickets 
were sent to the teachers of all the public schools in the vicinity, 
to be given to the children who were regular in attendance for 
the past week. All other children were required to pay a 
penny for admission. The street scenes on Tuesday evenings 
were interesting. Although the concerts did not begin until 
8 o'clock, the children began to assemble by 6 o'clock, and 
when the doors were opened, it required a strong man to secure 
order and prevent the trampling under foot of the smallest 
children, in the eagerness of all to get front seats. 

Contrary to what is sometimes supposed, the children are 
quick to discern what is good in music, recitations or reading, 
and the order maintained is in direct proportion to the excel- 
lence of the performance on the stage. There was marked 
improvement in the behavior of the children toward the end of 
the year, and their teachers testify to the good effect of the 
concerts in securing regularity of attendance. 

The Philadelphia Branch of the Union for Practicai^ 
Progress was formed January i , and from that time to July i 
held its meetings on the first Monday of each month in the 
Settlement parlors. No meetings were held in July and Au- 
gust, and on reassembling in September it was decided that it 
would be for the interest of the Union to hold its meetings 
farther up town, and in different places each month. 

During the year one resident has had charge of a large tene- 
ment house on St. Mary Street. The rent coi^lecting takes 
her regularly to the house each week and gives her an oppor- 
tunity to become the friend of each of the sixteen families 
under her charge. 

Medicax Department. There have been some changes in 
this department during the year. Dr. Mary A. Johnson, who 
had been resident physician since the opening of the Settle- 
ment, resigned in March, and Dr. Frances C. Van Gasken 
came in her place. A dispensary is open from 5 to 7 P. M. 
each day, and as heretofore a fee of twenty-five cents is charged 
which covers consultation and medicine. The physicians pay 
calls at the same rate. 

Tifiring the summer, patients were taken to the Mercer 



Memorial House and the Childreu's Seashore House at At- \ 
lantic Cit\-, and to the Red Bank Sanitarium. j 

The present resident phj'sician, who is also one of the medi- I 
cal inspectors of the City Board of Health, has aided in the I 
enforcement of sanitarj- regulations necessary for the good of I 
the neighborhood, and there is a decided improvement, in I 
cleanly conditions, over last year. 1 

Summer Work. During the summer there were three, and I 
part of the time four residents at the Settlement. Some of the, ] 
clubs and classes took a vacation through July and August ; 
but enough work was on hand to keep the residents busy, 
Sunday evening lectures were given every week. The Men s 
Qub and the English Class, the Davis Cadets and the Tyndall • 
Club met regularly, and the Daisy Chain Club at irregular 
intervals. Bank was open every evening. Two singing classes ■ 
ita girls met during July and August. Each class received J 
twelve lessons in the Tonic Sol-Fa System. 1 

The residents Lad also to arrange the parties aud invite the I 
guests for our two country homes. I 

Acting in co-operation with Country Week Association we I 
were permitted to take our choice of the farm houses at their I 
dispo^, A very attractive one at Kennett Square was chosen. 
A resident stayed there through the summer to look after the 
" good times " of the children, while the fanner's wife attended 
to the housekeeping, our parties being boarders for whom the 
Cotintry Week rates of hoard were paid. Ten children, some- 
times boys, sometimes girls, went for a week, or longer in 
special cases. It would make this report too long to tell of the , 
delightful times, the picnics, horseback rides and tea parties ' 
that occurred. Next to having a country house of our very 
own, the plan chosen this summer seems most satisfactorj-. 

In addition to those who went to Kennett Square home, we J 
were able to invite parties of eight women and children each | 
week through the summer for a week's stay at Fort 'vVashing- 1 
ton. A club of young ladies at Chestnut Hill raised the 1 
money, chose a house and made all necessary arrangements. 1 
Our friends and neighbors went as their guests. Thus we 
could give this great pleasure to many more than would other- 
wise liave been possible. | 
In Philadelphia, as in all other large cities, the problem of I 
The Unemployed was the most serious that confronted us last 
winter. At the Settlement we met it face to face every hour of • 
the day. Naturally not only our neighbors, but others who 
knew of us only by hearsay, turned to us in their trouble for 
help. Until the hohdays no attempt was made to do an>'thing 
but assist individual cases by finding or making all the work 
possible. 

The Citizen's Permanent Relief Commfttee had organized, 
and, through its agents, was giving food and coal, paying rent. 



34 

or loaning money to large numbers in our neighborhood. Early 
in January an effort was made to formulate a plan whereby pay- 
ment for work* done might, in part at least, take the place of 
almsgiving. A meeting was called at the Settlement, at which 
a sub-committee was appointed to confer with the Permanent 
Relief Committee. The first result was the organization of 
auxiliar}' committees of ladies in a niunber of wards who under- 
took to fiimish sewing or other work to all women capable of 
.working to whom the Relief Committee were giving aid. The 
College Settlement became the headquarters for this work of 
the Wfth Ward, and soon two hundred women were receiving 
work weekly. All cases were investigated by agents appointed 
by the Citizen's Permanent Relief Committee. 

All sorts of women's and children's clothing, men's shirts, 
and underclothing were cut out at a room in the Settlement 
Hall by experienced cutters. The sewing was done by the 
women in their homes, and was paid for by the piece. The 
quantity given out depended on lie necessities of the family. 
About thirt>' women who could not sew were given weekly jobs 
of scrubbing or washing. We paid out $2,127 ?or work done and 
$678.35 for material. The greater part of the garments made 
were returned to the Relief Committee to be used at its dis- 
cretion. 

Beginning March ist, a gang of men were put to work in 
the Fifth Ward cleaning the blind alleys. Three gangs, aver- 
aging ten men each, under a foreman, were given work two 
days in the week. During the month $398.80 was spent in 
this work. 

April ist the Park Work supplanted the work on the street. 
A Committee on Work had been authorized by the Citizen's 
Permanent Relief Committee to arrange for giving work on the 
roads in Fairmount Park. 

The College Settlement undertook to be headquarters for 
receiving applications, for the giving out of cards and for the 
payment for work done, not only for the Fifth Ward, but for 
other wards in which no one could be found ready to assume 
the responsibility. As the applicants were more than double 
the number of those who could be supplied with cards, the 
sifting process was difficult. It is a hard thing to turn away 
man after man willing to work at hard manual labor at one 
dollar a day, although he may have been accustomed hitherto 
to work only at a trade or in some sedentary occupation. 

It was what we could not do rather than what we did that told 
on our own strength. 

During the time from April ist to the middle of May in 
which we thus co-operated with the Permanent Relief Commit- 
tee we paid out $1,790 to five hundred and fifty different men, 
residents of nine wards. 

We Bit very glad to have had this opportunity, not only for 



35 

the sake of the comparatively little we acconiplidied in the 
giving of work, but more especially for the kuowtedge it has 
given us of the people of the section of the city in which we live. 
We have come to know many people who otherwise we may 
never have met, and have formed many acquaintanceships and 
some friendships which we trust are to prove mutually helptul. 

It is difficult for any one who has not lived in a Settlement to 
realize how much of our time is taken up in ways that cannot 
be set down in any report. We are neighbors among neigh- 
bors, and this implies much . UTien there is sickness or trouble 
there are calls to be paid. We stand between the various organi- 
zations of the dty and the people for whom they are intended. 
We act as a bureau of information, often as an intelligence 
office. We look after the sanitary conditions of the neighbor- 
hood, report nuisances, try to have the streets properly 
cleaned ; appeal to Councils for more electric lights — and get 
them ; we write letters innumerable to and for all sorts and 
conditions of men. We urge the extension of tlie Starr Garden ; 
we go and give talks to societies or schools who want to know 
more about settlements. Last, but by no means least, are our 
social engagements. Were we to entuperate thera all, it might 
seem that there could be time for little else. 

At holiday time we gave nine Christmas parties, inciting to 
each those of nearly the same age, and only so many as our 
parlors cotild easily accommodate. At each party the beautiful 
Christmas tree was lighted, and Santa Claus came in at the 
window (because the Franklin stove filled the fireplace i. Gen- 
erous friends had stuffed his pack, and all the guests received 
a gift as well as a bag of candy. There was au appropriate 
story and some music. 

On one memorable afternoon Miss Kmma Thursby came to 
us and charmed old and young alike with her beautiful voice. 

There have been numerous other entertainments, either iu 
the hall or in our own parlors, parties, concerts (at one of 
which the Bryn Mawr Glee Club sang for us), and dramatic 
performances, in which the residents and the young people of 
the neighborhood have participated. All in all it has been a 
busy and a happy year. 

Much is due to our Non-Resident Workers, many of whom 
came to us several times a week to conduct clubs or classes, 
help in the Libraiy, or at the Bank, or Coal Club, or in what- 
ever part of the work they were most interested. We can 
always use more, and gladly welcome all who come to our 
assistance, especially those who can come regularly. 

We are planning for a busy winter. There are to be at least 
six permanent residents. The new building, which we expect 
to take for the Kitchen and Coffee-house, which we are to ■ 
organize this fall, will contain rooms which can be fitted up for 
residents, if more should come to us. The Coffee-house will 



36 



be near enough to permit any one rooming there to take her 
meals at the Settlement House and to share in all our pleasant 
family life. 

Of our discouragements we say nothing. We meet them 
here as every one must, whether they live in a Settlement or 
in their own homes. We do not always succeed in our under- 
takings. We must experiment and, in a measure, grope our 
way. Each Settlement must develop according to the circum- 
stances in which it finds itself. While we may get valuable 
hints from others, our work, like our own lives, must be a 
growth, not an imitation, if it is to be truly successful. On 
the whole, that which we see and believe to be good more than 
offsets that which discourages, and so we have faith to go on, 
knowing that our Settlements, as such, college or social, will 
last only so long as their form is of value in the development 
of better, social, moral and industrial conditions. The Settle- 
ment idea must last until the universal brotherhood of man is 
an accomplished fact, no longer an ideal. 

The following is a list of residents and visitors for the last 
twelve months. Any one staying less than a month is called 

a visitor : 

Residents. 
Miss Katharine B. Davis, Vassar (Head Worker), October, 1893, to October, 

1894. 

Miss Mary B. Lippincott (Assistant Head Worker), October, 1893, to Octo- 
ber, 1894. 

Dr. Mary A. Johnson, Smith (Resident Physician), October, 1893, to March, 

Dr. Frances L. Van Gasken (Resident Physician), March, 1894, to October, 

1894. 
Miss Jean Loomis, Wells, November 7, 1893, to January i, 1894. 
Miss Mary R. Mason, October, 1893, to January, 1894. 
Miss Susan G. Chester, Vassar, December 7, 1893, to January 3, 1894. 
Miss Maud B. Hoyt, December 5, 1893, to December 29. 
Miss Margaret Hilles, Bryn Mawr, January 3, 1894, to February i. 
Miss Katharine P. Woods, April 4, 1894, *° J^^y ^• 
Miss Grace M. Comfort, Syracuse, April 7, 1894, to June 11. 
Miss Annie C. Karcher, May 13, 1894, to June 27. 
Miss Helen A. Lord, Smith, June 15 to September 26. 

Visitors. 
Miss Emily S. Richards. Vassar, 
Mrs. Mary E. W. French, 
Miss E. C. Lapham, Vassar, . 
Miss Harriet M. Brownell, Bryn Mawr, 
Miss Mary W. Jewett, Bryn Mawr, . 

Miss Robertson, 

Miss Amelia B. Shapleigh, Cornell, . 
Mrs. A. E. Thompson, Wellesley, 

Miss Mary R. Mason, 

Dr. J. Van Gasken, 

Miss E. R. Engle, 

Dr. Florence H. Watson, 
Miss Helen S. Hoyt, Bryn Mawr, 
Miss Mary H. Ritchie, Bryn Mawr, 
Miss Alice G. Chase, Barnard, . 
Miss Margaret Hilles, Bryn Mawr, 

Dr. Annie B. Hall, 

Miss Laura A. Jones, .... 

Miss Helen L. Jones. 

Miss Helena S. Dudley, Bryn Mawr, . 



Germantown. 
Rochester, N. Y. 
Fredonia, N. Y. 
Bristol^ Conn. 
Moravia, N. Y. 
St. Louis, Mo. 
Cambridge, Mass. 
East Orange, N. J. 
New York. 
Luling, Texas. 
Chester. 
Norristown. 
Wilkesbarre. 
Falls of SchuylkiU. 
Brooklyn, N. V. 
Wilmington, Del. 
Philadelphia. 
Boston. 
Boston. 
Boston. 



KATHK^l^^ ^^^^^-^ \3KN\^. 



37 



CI 



Z 

•J 

H 
09 



•J 



D 

09 

< 

P< 
H 

b 
O 

H 

P< 
O 
P« 



s 



h 

Z 
H 

H 

H 
H 

CO 

H 
O 

H 

O 

u 

H 
H 

CO 






s o 



9 

Q 

•< 

oi 
H 

H 

h 

O 



O 

u 
u 



o\ 



s 



7 



<» 



I 

00 



O O t^'Jt^O O OnS 



I 



O «*X0 O^iO Q O^C4 
tx lO CMC lOVO NO 




OS 









On •-• 



•a 
5 

I 

06 
U 






I 



M 



^ ^i 






1. 

:3 eu2 2.2-2 >. 






I 

Si 






M 
u 

o 

(0 
O 

c 



Co flj ;2 'ifc O •»? 

Hc/)S?UO 



5 

I 



M (I) 

•S Jl ea « "S 



•o 

t 

cd 

u 



00 



^ 

« 
« 



I 



9JS% 



to 



o ooo too •-• w 

\0 W On Q. HI On 
to SS*^ *** 



CI 






»>8 



JO 



to 



42 

! 

06 
Q 



*^ to 
jn ci 

"^^^ 

oti: 
•o s 
»i3n 



8»oco 
tovo 

'*tO00 



M 






>» -TJ 






2 • u 



U O 
(0 

a 
o 

•4-*%. 

c 
o 

Q 






> 
Q 



• tfT 
M 
o 
o 

. o 



c 
o 



u 
o 

, CO 

(0 

' c 



(U 



0) 



CI 






bO 



\d ^ 



(A 

•4-* 

c 



o 



a 
o 

• tn 



bo 

c 



0) 



.-? S 2^ 5! 



aL 
^,i: o 

^ art 

rt ^ tn 
a> tn 3 

o ^^ 

4) ^ 
=^ ^ C 

(U ij !U 

o s o 






^s^- 



w rt Q= n rt cft«" <A 



u 



'V 
u 

rt 

a 



38 



I 






I 






•I 

I 

H 

Ui 
06 

o 



Q 

•< 
H 

X 

Q 
Z 

< 

oi 
H 

ei 

D 

(A 

< 

a 

H 

fid 
o 

H 

D 
O 

o 

< 



0) 





B 
5& 



v^ 



O 
<A 

a 

o 
m 



t 
g 



On 

< 

Q 
O 
OS 



I 












:3 


t 


.o 


« 


**!» 




•o 




e 




cd 


JS 




•*■* 


•0 


» 


*^ 




•o 


"S 


:3 


s 



I 



o 
O 



o 
»o 

a 



e 

cd 



ts 



£i 


• 

t5 




4> 


1 


a> 




(0 


o 


• 

X 


V 

^ 


< 


u 


o 


4^ 


'O 


b 


e 




G 




o 




g 


s 


a 




«2 


<1 


^ 




•o 


^ 






c 


^ 


oc 




a 


«< 


£ 




4) 


a: 


S 



u 



:3 

CO 

c 

O 

u 
u 

en 

O 



cd 
4> 

a: 



0) 
4> 

CO 

X) 
m 



iS 

0) 

I 

n 



•a 



I 



A 






39 



BOSTON SETTLEMENT (Denison House). 

RBPdRT OP HEAD ^WORKER. 

The activities of Denison House during the past year, as far 
as they can be formulated, are shown by the following sche- 
•dule : 

Monday P. M., At home. 

Tuesday (4-5) P. M., Library and Penny Provident Bank. 

Misses. Winsor, Dike, Mills, Kelsay, Wentworth, and others. 

Tuesday evening, first and third, Federal Labor Union. 

Tuesday evening, second and fourth, Garment Makers Union. 

Tuesday evening. Cooking Class, Miss Ward. 

Wednesday (4-5.30) P. M., Two Clubs of Little Girls, Miss Chamberlain, 
Miss Horner, Miss Perry. 

Wednesday evening. Art Class, Miss Weir. 

Wednesday evening, Shakespeare Reading Class, Miss Dudley. 

Thursday A. M., Social Science Club. (Twice in the month.) 

Thursday (4-5.30) P. M., Club of Little Boys, Miss Newhall, Miss Leavens. 

Thursday evening, At home. 

Friday P. M., Literature Class, Miss Scudder. \ 

Friday evening, Sinking Class at No. 64 Tyler street, Miss King. 

Friday evening. Club of Boys, Miss Rollins. 

Friday evening. Club of Boys at No. 11 Oak street, Miss Cheever and H*r- 
•vard students. 

Friday evening, Literature Class, Miss Williamson. 

Saturday (2-5) P. M., Five Clubs of Children, Miss Holmes, Miss Brown, 
Miss Davenport, Miss Stewart, Miss Lauriatt, Miss Walker, Miss Below, MittH 
Daggett, Wellesley students, Radcliffe students, and others. 

Saturday evening, six lectures at Andover House, Miss Scudder. 

It will be seen that the number of weekly engagements is 
smaller than that of our other settlements. The number of 
<:lubs is limited in any case by our lack of suitable rooms ; fi^r 
the boys, moreover, there are several excellent clubs in the 
neighborhood, so that it has been our policy from the first to 
emphasize the idea of the settlement as a home and to leave 
abundant opportunity for informal and occasional meetings in 
•our house. The interest of the household may be divideil into 
I, general social life ; 2, children's clubs ; 3, educational work ; 
4, study and effort along industrial lines ; 5, (during last win- 
ter) emergency work. 

A large part of our life has been absorbed by the general 
SOCIAL INTKRCOURSK with our neighbors, especially with the 
older people. This has been one of our chief pleasures, but a 
pleasure that is hardly susceptible of descrii^tion. We are 
fortunate in living in a district where we not onl>" receive a 
hearty and cordial welcome but find many i)e()i>le fully able to 
enter into our aims and give us warm co-()i)eration. We num- 
ber French, German, Chinese, Italians and Americans among 
our friends, but the larger number of our neighbors are o( Irisli 
•extraction The hard winter drew us all especio ^- 



.'» 



¥> 

gethcr and i:nable<l us in many cases to form intimacies whidi 
arc surely not su]K-rficiaI. It gave us also a new insiglit into 
the lives of those who are at the mercy of a fluctuating labor 
market. The industrial suffering only made greater the need 
of a change of thought through sociability' and of such socia- 
bility Denison House was largely a center. During the holiday 
season our pretty Christmas tree and various Christmas parties 
drew to the house ever>' one who had been connected with it, 
even the older men coming in considerable numbers. But all 
through the year our social life centered in Thursday eves- 
INO, when we tried each week to have some special interest or 
pleasure to offer to our friends. The Wellesley girls would 
give an act from Shakespeare, a Glee Club would sing for us 
or a celebrated violinist from the Symphony Orchestra wonld 
give us delightful nmsic. At other times, thrown on our own 
resources, charades, games and songs would prove unfailing 
entertainment. That the evenings were a pleasure was proved 
by the attendance increasing from ten or twent>' early in the 
season to numbers which would crowd our little rooms to the 
utmost, sometimes sixty or seventy. *' I*d come Thursday 
evening e\;en if I had to faint away on the curb-stone twice be- 
fore I got here,'* said one of our friends. '*\Ve have got 
something to look forw^ard to now,'* said another. 

Beside the calls which take up much of our time, much 
energy and many hours go into the numberless small ser\'ices 
which we find ourselves in a position to perform, e. g. helping 
a mother to get the proper medical advice for her baby, or get 
an invalid into a hospital or convalescent home, or a man to 
get a duplicate of a lost naturalization paper, etc. , etc. 

The WORK WITH THE CIIII.DREN needs no special explanation 
as it does not differ materially from that which has formed a 
part of life in most settlements. Our i^ibrary has been in- 
creasingly popular. Many attractive books have been given 
us and we now have over five hundred volumes. 250 children 
are on the list as drawing books, the average attendance being 
about sixty, while about 100 come more or less regularly. It 
is hoped to get the children as they grow older into the habit 
of using the public library. 

The Penny Provident Bank, in connection with the 
library, is now in a flourishing condition, its weekly receipts 
having more than doubled in the last year. $125 worth of 
stamps have been sold. The number of depositors is 181. 

The CLITBS of little girls that gather weekly chose the favorite 
occupation of sewing followed by songs and games. The boys 
were interested in different ways, in one club by whittling, in 
another by stories, while in the hunters club the boys studied 
the habits of different animals. The children's clubs were 
under the general direction of one resident who was assisted by 
outside helpers. 108 children came to the house in weekly 



giveu up ^^^1 
irsions, to ^^^^| 

ne of the ^ 



clubs. During the summer many of the clubs w 

and the energies of the house were turned to excursions, 

helping in the vacation school and to flower work. 

During the Summer, Denison House ha*' been one of the 
seven distributing stations of the Boston Mutual Helpers 
Flower Mission, in connection with the Shawmut Church. 
Over a thousand bouquets have been distributed on Wednes- 
days during July and August, each bouquet, in most cases, 
being the occasion of a social call by some one of the residents 
or special visitors for flower day. Several times it has also 
been possible to give flowers to the children at Ijbrarj- and 
Bank on Tuesdays, and to our sick friends on Saturdays. 
The season has been so dry that we have not had as many 
flowers as we could use, and we would make a special appeal 
to friends in the vicinity of Boston for flowers for another sum- 
mer, and for visitors on a distributing day, who would enjoy 
seeing the pleasure flowers give here, especially when the 
flowers come from known friends. The children at the Day 
Nursery and at the Summer Kiudergarden are deUghted with 
flowers to take home. Five botanical talks were given to 
groups of children in the Tyler Street Vacation School by resi- 
dents of the house ; two bouquets were given each child, one 
for himself, and one for some sick acquaintance. The reports 
afterward given us of their sick friends sometimes led to further 
connection with the house. 

Owing to the kindness of friends and to Wis-S Johnson, of the 
Countrj- Week, many excursions and vacations for children 
and neighbors were arranged. The clubs enjoyed an aitemoon 
at the shore or in the country- with their leaders in June, and 
the Wellesley Chapter entertained forty children at Wellesley. 
Several working women went to the Princeton Vacation House, 
and thirty children and mothers were guests of the people of 
Plymouth, at a cottage on Plymouth beach, during two weeks 
in August, a gift which came to us through Rev. Mr. Shurt- 
leff, oi Pilgrim Church. The young people of the Wakefield 
Congregational Church gave three Saturday afternoon picnics, 
enjoyed by more than a hundred of our friends, and the ladies 
of a neighboring Cliri.stian Endea\-or Society entertained parties 
of little girls in their homes. The pleasure of the all day pic- 
nic given annually by the West Medford children to ours was 
shared thiS year with children from the Epworth League 
House at the north end. Many of us .spent a delightful after- 
noon in Auburudale as the guests of a friend. The students 
remaining at Wellesley College for the \*acation have several 
times invited groups of our neighbors to Welle.sley for the day, 
and these Wellesley outings have been particularly attractive. 
We have also co-operated with the managers of the Milton 
Convalescent Home and with the Floating Hospital. 
f^ Side by side with the purely social fuiiction of the house- 




42 

stand its Educational effort. Our beginnings last winter 
were small but full of promise. We estimate that the number 
of persons with whom teachers and lecturers came in contact 
was some hundred and seventy. Our experience certainly- 
showed us that there are many young working women who 
can with sympathetic guidance, share the highest forms of 
pleasure and gain a real imaginative love of such poets, for ex- 
ample, as Coleridge, Wordsworth or William Morris. In one 
circle Shakespeare was read, in another Wordsworth and the 
interest was often not less genuine than that found in college 
classes. 

The lectures in the Nineteenth Centur>' poets, offered by 
one of the residents, were well attended by teachers from the 
public schools near. The same resident gave a series of lec- 
tures on Ruskin at Andover House before the Emerson Club, 
a club composed of young men and women from the evening 
high school. An invitation given to the club to visit Denison 
House one evening to see sets of photographs illustrating 
Ruskin 's Art Criticism was very generally accepted. 

An enthusiastic class in the History of Art was conducted 
by an outside helper who has in charge the art teaching in the 
Brookline Schools. Frequent visits to the art museum proved 
a delightful addition to the regular class work. 

The Soci ai. Science Ci.ub gave us some of our most stimu- 
lating hours. Composed originally of the residents of Andover 
and Denison Houses it was enlarged to include several clergy- 
men, working men, a factory inspector, the Superintendent of 
a Workingmen's Institute and a few others interested in the 
industrial problem. It was decided to study the history of the 
organization of labor, and a paper, followed by discussion, was 
read by one of the members or occasionally by a specialist in 
some phase of the subject. 

Papers on the following subjects were presented at the Social 
Science Club : 

Conditions of Labor under Feudalism. 

Mediaeval Guilds. 

The Industrial Revolution. 

The Factory System. 

Old Trade Unionism. 

Chartism. 

Co-operation. 

The New Trades Unionism. 

The Knights of Labor. 

The American Federation of Labor. 

Ethics of Trades Unionism. 

The Relation of the Church to the Industrial Problem. 

The last paper of the series, by Dean Hodges of Cambridge, 

was printed in The Dawn. We hope the valuable paper on 

the Ethics of Trades Unionism may appear in pamphlet form 

for circulation among the Trades Unions and others interCvSted 

in the subject. 




The Social Science Club gave us a more intelligent interest 
11 the Labor Movement and this was intensified as we learned 
the condition of the sewing women of Boston. In their organi- 
zation there seemed some hope of relief. However, this was 
not attempted till the tailoreases from a shop near bj- came to 
us in reference to the organization of their shop. The result 
was that a Local Union op Tailoresses affiliated with the 
Central Labor Union, met at Denison House two nights in the 
month. These meetings were partly educational, partly social, 
and the president, one of the organizers of the American 
Federation of Labor and herself a t>-pe-setter, always planned 
to have some interesting speaker for the evening. 

In March a Federal L^bob Union was organized by one 
of our working men friends. It consists of wage earners and 
professional people. The aims as fet forth in our constitution, 
are as follows ; 

1. To secure for working women the benefits of organization, 
including shorter hours, better wages, improved working con- 
ditions, and mutual aid in sickness and distress. 

2. To endeavor to secure among people of all classes a better 
understanding of the labor movement. 

3. To give special attention to the higher intellectual and 
moral ends to which the labor movement stands committed. 

4. To use all efforts toward the peaceful settlejiient of labor 
disputes. 

5. To include in its membership persons in various walks of 
life who shall agree to work together for these objects. 

Open meetings, for the purpose of discussing economic 
questions, occur once a month. Of various committees ap- 
pointed for special work, one has been acti^^eh" engaged in 
bringing the subject of organization before the working girls 
clubs. 

By means of the Federal Labor Union and the Garment 
Makers' Union we are brought directly in contact with the 
most thoughtful of the wage earners, especially the Central 
Labor Union, to which several of our residents have been dele- 
gates. At these meetings we have found much to instruct as 
to the attitude taken by working-men on subjects of general 
interest, ^. _c-t the referendum, the eight hour law, State em- 
ployment, factory' legislation, public baths, and improved sani- 
tation. AH of these subjects and many others we have heard 
ably discussed. It is noteworthj' that the speakers, although 
limited in education and at times narrow in their views, often 
show a grasp of the subject and a wise conservatism which 
increases ones faith in democracy. The legal method of ob- 
taining redress for their wrongs by the ballot is patiently taught 
again and again by the leaders, and the methods of violence 
are as generally condemned. Would it not be well for more 
u;pei^e coueemed with the great industrial ■unrest of the day to 



44 

leani at first hand the sentiments of the working people in their 
conferences ? 

Besides the regular meetings of the Unions we had various 
informal evenings at our own house, when a discussion between 
the practical man and the theoretical expert gave evidence of 
greater harmony of views than one might expect. In conse- 
quence of one such meeting a labor leader was asked to meet a 
group of college men and to explain to them the Trades Union 
movement. We feel that such free discussion is immensely 
valuable in breaking down class prejudice and clearing away 
misunderstanding. We hope that another winter we may have 
a regular evening club of residents and workingmen, with some 
one to instruct on special lines, and that it may also be possible 
to promote, in some more formal way, intercourse between work- 
ing men and thinkers and social or philanthropic workers. To 
offer common ground where earnest people of various classes 
may, through freer intercourse, gain fuller sympathy, is cer- 
tainly one legitimate function of a Settlement. We are en- 
couraged to hope that Denison House may exercise this function 
in the future by the surprising welcome which has been accorded 
us by some of the prominent workingmen 6f Boston, by the 
warm faith that they have expressed in us both in public and in 
private. 

Our limited program of regular engagements proved quite 
sufficient to keep a rather small force of workers busy, particu- 
larly as so much time was given to the needs of an exceptional 
winter. 

It is not necessar}'^ to dilate on the number or the suffering 
of the Unemployed in Boston. By December it became evident 
that many of our neighbors were feeling the hard times. The 
women especially were in distress. For several weeks we tried 
to find work through different agencies or among our richer 
friends, but without much success. We then thought of ap- 
pealing for funds to open a small sewing-room. At this point 
we heard that a Citizen's Relief Committee had been appointed 
by the Mayor and was receiving funds. On consultation with 
thivS committee our plan was thought to offer advantages which 
would justify its adoption in addition to the larger shop for 
work relief established b}- the Relief Committee, and money 
was appropriated for our work-rooms. We were offered the use 
of four large rooms at the Wells Memorial Institute, free of 
rent, and on December 27th they were open for workers. En- 
abled to pay $400 a week for wages through the Citizen's 
Relief Committee, we carried on the work on a larger scale 
than at first planned, offering employment not only to our per- 
sonal friends, but to many others whom, after investigation, 
we considered suitable. On an average one hundred and fifty 
women a week were employed in two shifts of three days each, 
the wages being seventy -five cents a day. Three hundred and 



45 

twer.ty-four women were given work, the average amount of 
wages paid being fifteen dollars. The total amount spent in 
these work-rooms the months they were open was |6,iij.oo 
Our ai"i was to help the better class of sewing women who had 
never received charitable aid. By comparison with the Asso- 
ciated Charities records only fourteen of the three hundred and 
twenty-four workers were found to be chronic cases, while thirty- 
nine in all were registered as having recei\'ed aid before the win- 
ter of "93, '94. Our wages, though too small to attract from 
other employment, were often sufficient to keep from actual 
want or from the need of charity. In this respect our policy 
differed from that of much of the relief work of the winter, 
which distributed its help in smaller portions among a larger 
number. We considered it better to assume definite respon- 
sibility towards those whom we helped, providing them with 
work as long as we were able to do so, or until they obtained 
regular work. The goods made were not pat in competition 
with the regular market, but were bought by hospitals and 
other charitable agencies, and distributed in general to con- 
sumers who would not have bought regular shop-made goods. 

One feature of the experiment was the untiring effort to help 
the women from the work-room into regtUar employment. On 
discharge from the rooms one hundred and seventy-two took 
regular places, while of the others only fifty-eight were left 
unprovided for, many of these being unable to take regular 
work because of claims at home, or because of poor health. 
The work-rooms were under the management of two of the 
residents of the previous year, and did not subtract from the 
working force of the Settlement, except in the case of the head- 
worker, who gave much of her time while the plan was in 
preparation and during the first few weeks of the work. Later, 
however, the shop was left almost exclusively in the hands of 
Miss Cheever and Miss Cate with their assistants. The full 
report of our experiment will be found in a separate pamphlet, 
which can be had on application to the Secretary oi the College 
Settlement Association (price 10 cents). The preparation of 
this report from the statistics on the application cards was a 
work of no shght proportions, and must be largely credited to 
Miss Cheever. We felt this enterprise to be a true part of 
settlement work, since it was the form of friendliness most 
needed last winter by our neighbors. The danger of its be- 
coming mechanical was avoided by tlie close personal relations 
between the managers or fore-women and tlie workers, and 
many whom we learned to know at the shop became the friends 
of the house. 

To give work relief or any form of material relief is not the 
highest function of a settlement, nor, in ordinary times, any 
part of its function. First and foremost a settlement .stands for 
friendliness and when relief agencies are inadequate in .such an 



46 

emergency as last winter it may be necessary to help a Mend, 
or even a stranger, in material ways. In time of war it may 
be the duty of the student to leave his books ; for the business 
man to leave his office and to go into battle (even though he 
may disapprove theoretically of the principle of war). In the 
same way it is the duty of each and ever>' well-to-do citizen in 
a time of such material sufPering to help in saving the unfortu- 
nate victim of our industrial system from starvation and from 
pauperism. The ordinary relief agencies that may be adequate 
to deal with poverty resulting from incompetence, drunkenness, 
idleness, sickness or old age have nor the machinery to help the 
men and women thrown out of work by industrial depression. 
These cannot be relieved by two dollars worth of groceries and 
a coal order [although such relief work has its place] , and well 
meant efforts to secure work are often unsuccessful. 

Here ' * friendly help * * should be in the form of work. Every 
householder can devise methods of giving extra emplojrment, 
using money in this way rather than in direct charity. Last 
winter much of the force of the settlement went into devising 
methods of employing people ; the making and putting up of 
shelves was the favorite method of employing a carpenter. 
Painting and papering and extra cleaning were resorted to, 
while a snow fall was hailed as a public benefaction by the 
residents. The payment for this work was sometimes in the 
form of tickets to the New England Kitchen, to the five cent 
restaurant, to a lodging house : sometimes in the form of a 
ticket to help a man to get into the country or to another town. 
Money was not given for this work except in case of people 
well known to us. The tickets for lodging were not given if 
there was any chance for the men to get work at the temporary 
home, but in the middle of the winter the need was greatly in 
excess of the work, and accommodation provided there. Many 
small loans were made to friends which were in many cases 
repaid when people found work. 

That the other interests of the house suffered from our ab- 
sorption in the physical and mental sufferings about us is 
undoubted, but for a settlement to devote itself to educational 
and social work exclusively at such a time would be as anoma- 
lous as for the Parisian of 1870 to devote himself to receptions 
and lectures during the siege, with the sick and dying lying in 
the street. This may seem an exaggerated comparison. Those 
who came in direct contact with the suffering in our large 
cities last winter realized that neither war, not plague, bring- 
ing quick death, was more cruel than the slower torture of 
depressed body and spirit as weeks passed into months and no 
work was found by the bread winner of the family. When 
that experience is a new one, self-respect prevents the man or 
woman seeking charity. When months of anxiety and insuf- 
ficient food have broken the spirit, then the Provident Society 



47 

and Poor Relief are resorted to w4th the result that another 
person is forced toward the pauper class for the community to 
support. When such a condition of things exists there is need 
of speedy help as wisely planned as may be under the circum- 
stances, though it may not be what one would sanction in times 
of less stress. Spedlization of function is one mark of progress 
and the residents in a settlement are seldom fitted by training 
or maturity to carry on relief work. It is not a work that has 
been sought, rather one that has been forced upon them under 
exceptional conditions. Far from choosing such work them- 
selves they earnestly desire in every way to co-operate with 
other agencies in perfecting relief organization so that honest 
men and women can obtain help under conditions conducive to 
self-respect. 

The following list of residents shows that we had, on the 
average, seven residents through the winter. Two of these 
were ** fellows " from the College Settlement Association, twa 
others spent several hours each day in private study : 

Miss H. S. Dudley, Bryn Mawn, September 2, to May 18, Aug. 22 to 

Miss V. D. Scudder, Smith, Sept. 2 to Jan. 13. 

Miss Ellen S. Ward, Sept. i, to Sept. 19, Oct. 4 to June 13. 

Miss Nina Brown, Smitn, Aug. 27 to Nov. 23. 

Miss Helen Cheever, Oct. 10 to Nov. 13. 

Miss Very, Sept. 14 to Oct. 14. 

Miss C. L. Williamson, Wellesley, Nov. 15 to April 30. 

Miss K. P. Woods, (fellow) Oct. 17 to Feb. 15. 

Mrs. John T. Prince, Wellesley, Nov. i to April 28. 

Mr. John T. Prince, Nov. i to May i. 

Miss Ada Woolfolk (fellow) Wellesley, March 7 to June 26. 

Miss Laura Cate, March 12 to June 5. 

Miss Marion Cate, March 12 to May 28. 

* Miss H. B. Harmon, May 9 to June 12. 

♦Miss Emily Balch,*Bryn Mawr, Tune 10 to July 3. 

♦Miss Cora Stewart, Wellesley, June 30 to Aug. 17. 

♦Miss Dora Freeman, Wellesley, July 16 to Aug. 28. 

Miss K. Coinington, Wellesley, Aug. 13 to . 

Besides the residents twenty-five visitors have been at Deni- 
son House for a period varying from a day to two or three 
weeks. 

We have also had a number of regular helpers (about 
thirty) coming in from outside to help in the clubs. 

Helena S. Dudley. 

(* In charge during the absence of the headworker.) 



48 



•J 

H 

H 

Z 

o 

H 

CO 

O 

m 
o 

H 

O 

CO 

D 

0) 

< 

(^ 



i 



U 

CQ 

u 

H 

H 
(0 



Q 
55 
H 

>• 

H 

o< 
O 
fa 

H 
55 
H 

H 

H 
C/5 

H 
O 

•J 
nJ 
O 

u 

z 
o 

H 
(/) 

o 

X 

H 

H 
t> 

o 
o 
u 

< 

a 
u 

t^ 

S5 
O 

H 
oi 

o 






10 



u 

Oh 



Wi 

a 

m 



O 

o 



c 
fc-T «« ST 



'"it 

^ a 















en 
a> 

en 

C 

a 



1= 



a 
(« 

c 

c 
o 



k 
I! 

a: 

Id 

o 

H 
O 

<: 






bflo 



o 

u 



a; 

g 

4- c«** 



- = .- 



(0 

n 






a; 

a 
01^ 



men g 

<8 « ^, 

•So* 
o 



s o cd 



g 

M 






ao 



.cd 



n 



E.2 
o 



cd 

0} 



^ 



O 

o 
o 

(A 

o 



a>t*5t^8 o a> 
S 8 tSso S 



o^ O^ t>> i^ 
CI 



?s8^ 



8 

58 



(0 
H 

0H 

^ cd 

a^ 






o 

§£ 

o 

o 
S 

*cS 

o 
H 



g 

•8 

c 

•mm 

TJCO 

to . 

S 4> 5 



a 

o 
•«« 

« 

c 
o 



•«H 
cd 

• •r" . 

a 
o 

• a • 
a 

(0 

cd 
di •> 

- • uM 
^§ 

111 
^ t « 

« cd^ 

|^§ 

cd 4^ 

|£« 
<:u£ 

o 



49 









'S 


5*0?% 8 0? 


"S, 














VOOO M OHO « 


00 














!2 


•-I t^W lO fO 


>o 






5* 








t*>^M M ON 


o 






ft 








«k 




•^ 






V 








M 




fO 






•>» 










• a 
a « 

• • 








*** 

1 


• 


• 












u 


^ 


s 














^ 


ft5 




• 




a • 
• • 






o 


1 


• 


o 
u 


1 




•.-.1 






0(i 

O 




€0 


2 






• • • 






>♦ 












. a 
a; 

.c/5 






0l( 

< 




•M 


h 




•^ 


. ^ . -o 










Q 


h 




u 


«r s 










Z 

» 


CO 




a 












0^ 




.J 
O 

u 




o 


^"g" .^ 


H 


* • 






> 




m 

> 

2 
a 






> 

2 

a 








z 




>.>»>»>.>,>. 




a 








CO 




CQCQPQPQCQCQ 




< 






H 












O 


O 

n 




R 


^888 


% 








s 








00 








h 


H 

H4 




^••^XO OS 


o 










» 






M 


fO 








CO 








«^ 








Z 


p 
















D 


o 
















O 


















o 


< 
















o 


k^ 
















< 


















Q 


CO 
















O 





* 

42 














fd 


2 


t 














09 


o 




•^ 










D 
O 


(A 

u 


^ 


M 

• 

a 

a; 

t/) 


• « • 

• (U C ,/• 
















•o 
















c 


^ o o J^ 


•-^ 














a 


CJ t _ 4> 


rt 
•«-• 














X 


5 o c *- 


o 














c 


«JS.2 >. 


H 














(J ctf !!! t; s 

c o5.S s 


















o o o 
















PQHHHH 











1. 

.1- 
I 



SIXTH 

INUAL REPORT 





A Scttlemenl fiist talked of by Smith Col- 
lege AlumnK, ....... Aulumn of 1887. 

Appeal for money sent out Autunin of 

New York SelUenieiit opened, ... October, 

College Settlements AjeociBtioii formed. May, 1890. 

FhiUdelphia Settlement opened. .... April, 1892 

Denison House opened December. 1892 

College Settlements Association incorporated, January- 5. 1894. 



FORM OP BEQUEST TO THE COLLEGE SE 
MENTS ASSOCIATION. 



I hereby give, devise and bequeath the sum of 
dollars (in case of a gift other than money state the article or 
piece of property intended to be given) to the College Settle- 
ments Association, Incorporated under the laws of Massachu- 
setts, its successors and assigns absolutely. 




ANNUAL REPORT 



OF THE 



College Settlements 

Association, 



FROM SEPTEMBER 1, 1894, TO SEPTEMBER 1. 1895. 




PHILADELPHIA: 

DUNLAP PRINTING CO., 

1306-S-10 Filbert St. 

1895. 



INDEX. 

PAGE. 

Officers and Electors ' . . 3 

Local Executive Committees, 5 

Secretaries on Residents, 5 

Report of Electoral Board, 6 

General Treasurer's Report, *'. 11 

Report of New York Settlement, ^ 13 

Report of Philadelphia Settlement, 22 

Report of Boston Settlement, 35 



COLLEGE SETTLEMENTS ASSOCIATION. 



ELECTORAL BOARD. 

President^ Miss Susan G. Walker, 

I202 Eighteenth Street, Washington, D. C. 

Vice President, Miss M. Katharine Jones, 

Englewood, New Jersey. 

Secretary, Miss Caroline L. Williamson, 

3230 Michigan Avenue, Chicago, 111. 

Treasurer, Miss Cornelia Warren, 

67 Mt. Vernon Street, Boston, Mass. 



College. 



Name and Address. 



Wellesley, 



Smith, 



Vassar, 



Bryn Mawr, 



Radcliffe, 



Wells. 



Packer Institute, 



Cornell 

University. 



Swarthmore, 



Term of 

Office 

Expires. 




Miss Caroline L. Williamson, W. '89, 

3230 Michigan Ave., Chicago, 111. 
Miss Elizabeth Evans, W. '97, 

Weliesley College, Wellesley, Mass. 

Mrs. Helen Rana Thayer, S. '84, 

122 State St., Portsmouth, N. H. 
Miss Carrie Tildfen Mitchell, '97, 

Smith College, Northampton, Mass. 

Miss Laura J. Wiley, V. '77, r ,^ 

Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. j ^ 

Miss Vassie James, V. '97, 

Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 

Miss Abby Kirk, B. M. '92, 

Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa. 
Miss Mildred Minturn, B. M. '97, 

Bryn Mawr College, Bryn Mawr, Pa. 

Miss Grace McCurdy, R. '88, 

Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N. Y. 
Miss Katharine Berry, R. '98, 

22 Gray St., Cambridge, Mass. 

Miss Jeanet Loomis, Wells, 

Attica, N. Y. J 
Mrs. Anna A. Piutti, Wells '77, 

Wells College, Aurora, N. Y. 

Miss Maud A. Huttman, P. '92, 



278 Clinton Ave., Brookly 



n, N. Y. j 



97. 

Miss Katharine L. Munroe, P. '97, I , 

207 Lincoln PI., Brooklyn, N. Y. J ^'' 

Miss Amelia Shapleigh, C. '92, ) ,^; 

168 Brattle St., Cambridge. Mass. J ^' 



Miss Hannah Clothier, S'more '91, ) , >- 

Wynnewood, Pa. J ^* 
Miss Sarah Bancroft, S'more '97, \ 

Swarthmore CoWege, Svjat* 



' ^^. 



College. 



Elmira, 



Mt. Holyoke, 



Woman's College 
Baltimore. 



Barnard^ 



Non- Collegiate^ 



Associate 

Members. 



Namk and Address. 



Term of 

Office 

Expires. 



' Miss M. Katharine Jones, E. '85, ) , 

Englewood, New Jersey. | ^' 

Miss Mary Myers, E. '97, [ ,__ 

314 W. Clinton St., Elmira, N. Y. j ^' 



Miss Elizabeth Van Duyne, W. C. B. '94, ) , 

350 Summer Ave, Newark, N. J. | ^ 
Miss Virginia Kennedy, W. C. B. '96, 
• Woman's College, St. Paul St., Baltimore, Md. 

Miss Jessie Boyd Garetson, B., 

16 E. Twenty-second St., N. Y. City, N. Y. 
Miss Elsie Clews, B. '96, ) ,_^ 

9 W. Thirty-fourth St. N. Y. City, N. Y. f ^ 



'97 
'97 



Miss May Brown, 

Bright Hurst, Orange, New Jersey. 
Miss Hannah Fox, 

339 South Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Miss Ida Wood, V. '77, 



'96 
'97 



2038 Spring Garden St., Philadelphia, Pa. | ^ 
jrtha Haven Putnam, B. M. '93, ) ,^ 



Miss Bert 

245 W. Seventy-fifth St., N. Y.'City, N. Y. 
Mrs. Adaline Emerson Thompson, W. '80, 

41 Chestnut St., E. Orange, N. J. 



'96 

'97 

Miss Bertha Hazard, V. '79, ) >__ 

18 Centre St., Roxbury, Mass. | ^ 

Mrs. Florence Yost Humphries, C. '88. | t^ 

1501 N. Seventeenth St., Philadelphia, Pa. | ^ 

Miss Cornelia Warren, | >^ 

67 Mt. Vernon St., Boston, Mass. \ ^ 
Miss Vida D. Scudder, S. '84, \ ,^ 

250 Newbury St., Boston, Mass. ^ ^ 

Mrs. Jean Fine Spahr, S. '83, r ,^ 

68 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, N. Y. f ^ 

Miss Susan Walker, B. M. '93, ) »^ 

1202 Eighteenth St., Washington, D. C. J ^ 

Head-workers ex-officio are members of the Board. 



STANDING COMMITTEE. 

Miss Susan G. Walker, Chairman. 
Miss M. Katharine Jones. 
Miss Caroline L. Williamson, Secretary. 
Miss Cornelia Warren, Treasurer. 
Miss Bertha D. Hazard. 



LOCAL EXECUTIVE COMMITTEES APPOINTED BY THE 

ELECTORAL BOARD. 



NEW YORK SETTLEMENT. 

95 Rivington Street. 
Mrs. Jean Fine Spahr, Chairman and Secretary on Residents, 

68 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, N. Y. 
Miss Elizabeth F. Johnson, General Secretary , 

80 Park Street, Montclair, N. J. 
Miss Laura Billings, Treasurer, 

279 Madison Avenue, New York City, N. Y. 
Dr. Jane E. Robbins, Head Worker, 

95 Rivington Street, New York City, N. Y. 

Miss Laura Wheeler, 17 W. Forty-fourth Street, New York City. N. Y. 

Miss Candace Stimson 34 E. Thirty-third Street, New York City, N. Y. 

Miss Grace Underwood.. .145 W. Fifty-eighth Street, New York City, N. Y. 



PHILADELPHIA SETTLEMENT. 

617 Carver Street (Formerly St. Mary Street). 

Mr. J. Rodman Paul, Chairman 903 Pine Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Miss Susan P. Wharton, Secretary. ....<)\o Clinton Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 
Miss Emily S. Richards, Secretary on Residents, 

5343 Ross Street, Germantown, Pa. 

Miss Hannah Fox, Treasurer, 339 South Broad Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Miss Katharine B. Davis, Head lVorker...(>ij Carver St., Philadelphia, Pa. 

Miss Louisa G. Davis 2111 Delancey Place, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mr. Jones Wister 257 South Fourth Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Dr. Bertha A. Lewis 1930 Chestnut Street, Philadelphia, Pa. 

Mr. Frederick W. Speirs Drexel Institute, Philadelphia, Pa. 



BOSTON SETTLEMENT. 

Denison House, 93 Tyler Street. 

Miss Cornelia Warren, Chairman 67 Mt. Vernon Street, Boston, Mass. 

Miss Helen Cheever 557 Boylston Street, Boston, Mass. 

Miss Sarah Yerxa, Secretary on Residents, 

yj Lancaster Street, N. Cambridge, Mass. 

Mrs. W. B. Kehew, Treasurer 317 Beacon Street, Boston, Mass. 

Miss Helena S. Dudley, Head Worker 93 Tyler Street, Boston, Mass. 

Miss Vida D. Scudder 250 Newbury Street, Boston, Mass. 

Miss Bertha Hazard, Secretary 18 Centre Street, Roxbury, Mass. 

Applications for residence in the New York Settlement should be made to 
Mrs. Chas. B. Spahr, 68 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, N. Y. Board will not 
exceed $6.00. 

Applications for residence in the Philadelphia Settlement should be made 
to Miss Emily S. Richards, 5543 Ross street, Germantown, Pa. Board will 
not exceed $5.00. 

Applications for residence in the Boston SeU\er(\e\\\.s>^o>A^\i^xa"aAsi.\.<:k\!K«a» 
Sarsih Yerxa, 37 Lancaster street, North Cambt\d^^,'NV2.^%. '^wax^ Hr^\ t^^\> 
exceed $6.$o. 



REPORT OP THE ELECTORAL BOARD. 

During the sixth year of its existence the College Settlements 
Association has progressed along the line of the ideals upon 
which its Settlements were founded. And more, these ideals 
themselves have broadened until at times they may scarcely be 
recognized. This is of necessity as it is. Not only do ideals 
grow when put into practical working, but the whole sociologi- 
cal problem has taken such giant strides within the last few 
years that the Settlements must perforce wear seven league 
boots to keep pace with all that is stirring society to its depths. 

No better proof of the spread of the Settlement idea can be 
found than in the revised edition of the Bibliography of College, 
University and Social Settlements, compiled by Miss Katharine 
Jones, which is issued at the same time with this report. In 
September, 1889, Hull House and 95 Rivington street opened 
hospitable doors to their neighbors, and now the number of 
similar hospitable doors are manifold more, extending the 
length and breadth of the land. 

The three Settlements of the College Settlement Association 
have played but a small part in this great movement, but their 
friends believe that they are increasingly effective, and yet all 
those connected with them directly or indirectly would speak 
with all modesty, for there is much to be done and little as yet 
accomplished. It is a matter for note that each head- worker, 
and indeed each resident for any length of time in a settlement 
lays added emphasis on the fact that a Settlement is a life, not 
a work, and that it is therefore elusive of analysis and tabula- 
tion. They claim neither learning nor power, but an unusually 
unfettered opportunity to live. In the report for this year, the 
head-worker of the New York Settlement has omitted pur- 
posely the list of clubs, because she considers them misleading. 
** People expect model workers if we make much of our clubs, 
and those we have not. The ordinary transient worker is 
not even up to the average in her methods. It is just the 
spirit that redeems us. " 

Settlements have been criticized because they have had so 
few trained workers. They have been styled * * amateurish. ' ' 
None feel the tentative character of the work more than the 
workers themselves. Every one is new, and must seek a solu- 
tion of the problems involved together with the problem. But 
there is a growing desire and sense of need among those ac- 
tively engaged in Settlement work for more permanent and 
intelligent helpers. The effort to draw local professional and 
business women into residence on th** *^'"'^ of the Philadelphia 
liead-worker, and the circular iss Denison House 



Committee to candidates for residence, with appended list of 
books on sociological questions, it is to be hoped will meet with 
satisfactory results. ** Zeal, enthusiasm, devotion are not 
enough to guide us in the perplexities of conduct ; we need 
above all, knowledge as the basis of action.*' 

In connection with the Spring meeting of the Electoral 
Board, and as the result of a committee appointed by the Pre- 
sident of the Association, there were held a series of confer- 
ences of Settlement workers. The committee which called 
together these meetings were Mr. Reynolds, of the University 
Settlement ; Dr. Robbins, of the College Settlement ; Miss 
Bradley, of Whittier House and Mr. Clarence Gordon, of the 
East Side House. Mutual help and enlarged ideas were the 
inevitable result of such a conference. The program was as 
follows, but the great value of the meetings came from the 
informal, personal and private talks of the various workers : 

PROGRAM OF SETTLEMENTS' CONFERENCE. 

Friday, 8 p. m. 

United Charities Building^ 105 East Tiventy-second Street. 

Mr. E. P. Wheeler, Chairman. 

Miss Jane Addams, of Hull House, Chicago. 
Prof. Francis Peabody, of Harvard University. 
Mr. Percy Alden, of Mansfield House, England. 



Saturday, 2.30 p. m. 

College Settlement^ 95 Rivington Street, 

Miss Jane Addams, of Hull House, Chicago. 

Miss Vida N. Scudder, of Wellesley College and Denison House, Boston. 
Mr. James D. Reynolds, of University Settlement, New York. 
Prof. Graham Taylor, of the Congregational Theological Seminary and of 
Chicago Commons. 



Saturday, 8 p. m. 

College Settlement, 95 Rivington Street. 

Dr. Jane E. Robbins, Chairman. 

The Settlement and Philanthropy, Miss Bradford, of Whittier House, Jersey 
City. 

The Settlement and Municipal Reform, Miss Katharine Davis, of Philadel- 
phia College Settlement. 

The Value of a Settlement to the Residents and the College, Mr. Robert A. 
Woods, of Andover House, Boston. 



Sunday, 3 p. m. 

University Settlement, 26 Delancey Street. 

Miss Bradford, Chairman. 

The Settlement and Trades Unions, Miss Helena S. Dudley, of Denison 
House, Boston. 

Discussion. 



Sunday, 8 p. m. 

East Side House, Foot East Seventy-sixth Street. 

Mr. Clarence Gordon, Chairman. 

The Educational Work of a Settlement, Miss Mary McDovaeXV, o^ XimN^x'tiw.N 
of Chicago Settlement; Mr. Ely, of ?rospecX\5\\\ow, C^rD>c>T\A««^^»^^'^- 



8 

During the year the Electoral Board has thorouj^hly revised 
the By-Laws of the College Settlements Association, Incor- 
porated, and with the amendments approved by the Commis- 
sioner of Corporations of the Legislature of Massachusetts has 
printed the By-Laws and distributed them to subscribers. The 
Association is about to assume the control of property in con- 
nection with the Denison House, an act which incorporation 
has made possible. 

There has been one Fellow during the year 1894-5, Miss 
Mabel Sanford, Smith, '93, who has spent her time at Denison 
House. Miss Sanford's subject was Domestic Service from the 
Point of View of the Intelligence Ofl&ce. The report of Miss 
Isabel Eaton, Dutton, Fellow for 1893-4 on Receipts and Ex- 
penses of Wage- Earners in the Garment Trades, with investi- 
gations pursued in New York and Chicago, has been printed 
in the Quarterly Publication of the American Statistical As- 
sociation, June, 1895. Reprints of this publication have been 
sent to all full meml^ers of the Association. A few numbers 
are undistributed and may be obtained on application to the 
secretary. Copies have been sent to the leading garment man- 
ufacturers in New York and Chicago, to a number of the labor 
reform journals of the country, and to the secretaries of the 
national organizations of labor. The Association has author- 
ized the use of its name for any Fellow chosen and supported 
by the Philadelphia Executive Committee of the St. Mary 
Street Settlement, and approved by Prof. Lindsay, of the Uni- 
versity of Pennsylvania, who is Chairman of the Citizens' In- 
vestigation Committee of Philadelphia. It has also conceded 
to this Committee of Investigation the right to publish the re- 
sult of said Fellow's work, asking, however, to be allowed to 
make copies or reprints. 

The social, educational and children's parts of each Settle- 
ment's life have increased. The distinctively Summer and 
fresh-air work have been carried through successfully. Per- 
sonal friendships with the workingmen and women of the 
neighborhoods have been cemented, while fresh experiences 
and enlarged intelligence have been the outcome of very direct 
contact with the labor problems. No reader of the reports of 
the head-workers can fail to notice the part which the Settle- 
ments are taking in connection with municipal affairs. The 
Vacation School, planned and carried on by Denison House, 
together with Ward XII, Conference of Associated Charities, 
and held in a building provided by the city ; the reports before 
city committees by members of the New York Settlement, the 
part which the residents of St. Mary's Street have had on simi- 
lar committees in Philadelphia, and last, but not least, the 
demolition of the ram-shackle tenements about the Philadel- 
phia Settlement, and the conversion of the land thus freed into 
a parky bear witness to the fact that 'ments are lend- 



I "*" '- 



iiig a hand in bringing about right conditions in their respec- 
tive cities. 

The Colleges which contribute largely to the support of the 
Association have been showing increased interest and activity, 
but without appearing ungrateful, the Settlements and mem- 
bers of the Electoral Board hope for more direct personal assist- 
ance from the members of the college chapters who are in the 
immediate vicinity of the Settlements. The various under- 
graduate chapters report as follows : From Wellesley, students 
have helped entertain the neighbors at Denison House the 
second Thursday evening in each month, with the exception 
of December and January. Two undergraduates liave gone in 
each Saturday afternoon to help with the clubs. Flowers were 
sent to Deuision House in the Spring, and thirty of the club 
children with some of the mothers were taken out to Wellesley \ 
in June for au afternoon picnic. At Christmas time one hun- 
dred and twenty-five dolls were dressed and sent to the New 
York Settlement and seventy-five to Boston. Miss Dudley, of 
Denison House, Dr. Robbins, of Rivington street and Mr. 
Percy Alden, of Mansfield House, Loudon, have spoken on 
Settlement work at the college under the auspices of the Chap- 
ter. From Smith ninety-five articles of clothing were sent at 
Christmas time by the Needle-work Guild to the Philadelphia 
Settlement. In the Spring five or six large boxes of flowers 
went to Rivington street. The Glee Club sent a considerable 
sum of money to the Association at Christmas. Dr. Robbins, 
Mr. James B. Reynolds, of the University Settlement, Miss 
ComeUa Warren and Miss Katharine Conean have talked to 
the Chapter during the year. The Vassar undergraduate elec- 
tor writes that the interest in the Settlement work is gaining 
very rapidly, and that the actual work done during '94-'95 is 
almost unfair as a representation of the present condition. Her 
hopes for the future are large. Dr. Robbins and Mr. Percy 
Alden have spoken of their respectice Settlements. The actual 
work at the College has consisted in sending dolls, clothing 
and flowers to the bouse in Rivington street. During the 
Summer several of the students assisted at the Manhasset Sum- 
mer Home. Bryn Mawr reports an increase in membership 
and lectures from Dr. Robbins and Miss Dudley. A distinct 
effort to further knowledge and interest in the Settlement work 
will be made this coming year. Radchffe has also continued 
her faithful attendance at the children's clubs of Denison 
House. The elector from Wells writes of renewed, and in some 
cases, of enlarged subscriptions. From Packer no report has 
come. The Cornell Chapter has been undergoing a series of 
vicissitudes, and has barely held her membership on the Board, 
but the outlook for the coming year is brighter. Swarthmore 
has reason to congratulate herself upon the help she has given 
Mary Street, largely through the e€Qrta<^g|^ ' 




lO 

elector. Throughout the College there has been renewed in- 
terest and enthusiasm. Toys and dolls were sent at Christmas, 
great boxes of wild flowers during the Spring. A number of 
children of the Philadelphia Settlement spent a day at Swarth- 
more in the early Summer and did full justice to the lunch 
served them in the gymnasium. The interest at Elmira is 
steadily growing, Miss Jones and Miss Bash have spoken before 
the Chapter, and a library on College Settlement work has 
been started, and it is thought that this will aid greatly in 
arousing the interest of the students. The Woman's College 
of Baltimore has had frequent meetings and listened to the re- 
ports of her electors of the Board meetings in Philadelphia, 
October, 1894, and in New York in May, 1895. In connection 
with the Y. W. C. A. the Chapter started a Working Girl's 
Club in one of the poorer districts of Baltimore. Others organ- 
ized a gymnasium for boys, and with that held a night school. 
The new Chapter at Barnard College has bmught vigorous life 
and fresh ideas to the Association. Although admitted to the 
Board as recently as May last, it has sent Spring flowers and 
books to Rivington Street, and taken a party of children for a 
picnic to Bronx Park. The members of the Chapter propose 
a weekly day or afternoon in one of the parks with some of the 
children and have a well-developed plan for enlisting the 
schools of the city in Settlement work. From this last plan, 
they hope for a considerable amount of money and assistance. 

In spite of all this interest and enthusiasm, the Settlement 
Association needs more money ; it needs more workers. It 
calls for those who will give themselves to Settlement life as 
freely and fully as to a profession. It offers abundant and un- 
usual opportunities for a broad life to people of all diversity of 
gifts. Let it be reiterated that residence and opportunities for 
helpfulness are not confined to college women. All who have 
an earnest desire to help better present conditions and love 
humanity are welcome. 

CAROLINE L. WILLIAMSON, 

Secretary Electoral Board. 



II 



!6 



H 

§ i 



H 




< 




PJ 


n 


^ 


S 


;? 


H 


» 


i. 





U 


H 


C/3 


e 


(0 

H 
Pi 


b 


P 
H 





l>4 


H 


Z 


p^ 


H 




1 




(< 


Q 



•< 

to 
H 

H 
U 
H 




88 
^8 



ON 



5 

00 



88 



tfi 

u 

D 
H 

Q 



(0 

C 

o 



a 



O O & 
O llc/5 



lOOO »O0Q lO Q »0 
« T^-tHOO N O N 

T*- « «OvO T*- to »0 

lO »H M •-• M 



loo o 






88 



00 lO NO W N 



> 
o 






<U (0 



(U 



a; 



5 <"= 



(0 

G 
O 

Q 



fee/) 

SI 



>> 


<U 




U) 


G 


G 

a 


u 


H 


s 


<u 


u 


c 


»M 


o 


o 


•«>« 




a; 

G 
O 



bfi 

(0 
O 

a 

0) 
0) 



S 

B 
o 

U 

a 

a^ 



*t «« •« «K «« ^2 



c 



(A 

G 
O 

B 



c/) 



a; 
u 

0) 

o 
U 

(A 

ac 
0) a 



o 



13 



o -C 

tfi •*• 



CI} 



« cS «-^ c 

a 5f 0^ <^ > 2« 
^'i, aacQ rt 

c/ifcWHHc/) 



i55 

§8 



o\ 



8 « 

to lO 

CO « 



(/3 

u 



8 



>0 ON »0 
00 lO t^ 



M t^ to »0 

** t>^ to o> 

»0 M 



8 8 8 

VO « 0\ 



(U 
Si 

B 

a 

a; 

c/5 

•O 

c 

CI} 

G 

O 



u 

CI} 
0) 

>» 

bfi 

••^ 

u 

G 

-O 

-O 
> 

(U 
U 
(U 

u 

(A 

a; 



(fi 



o^:s^ 



.^^ 



I 



a 

>» 

b£ 

.£ 
'u 

G 



a; 

ti B 
(/)-3 



u 

c« 



to 

ON 



Ctf 

to u 

ctf :3 

a (J 



G 

B 
8 



o 



V< V< Vn 

o o o 

(l, U* U^ 



^3 


iatioi 
York 
nSet 


rt 
^ 


> 


^ 


(LI 


u ■ o 


*^ 


CJ 


o > ^ 
w r; tfi 


ctf 


o; 


^ 


u 


tfi ^ o 




U) 


< 55 PQ 


o 
tfi 


G 
O 


0) a> a; 

^ .c ^ 


■t-f 


■<-••*-•■<-• 


(U 




o o o 


IL> 





H H H 


Q 




V-i 



o 



3:8 

00 o 



o 

tfi 

o 



o 
u 



< 



tfi 

3 

CO 



a 
a; 
(/3 

-a 

c 
a 

G 

o 
u 



C0 



a* 
PO 



to 



V 

Xi 
V 

G 

o 

> 



Wi 

a 

2 
a 

-a 

c 

*•* 
V 

t: 

8 



-a 

c 

-a 

c 

G 
G 
O 

u 
u 

vS 

> 
o 

Xi 

ca 
-a 

> - 

c8 00 

o 
o 
O 

O 
H 
to 

O 



12 



SUMMARY. 

Wellesley College Subscription $280 50 

Alumnae " 628 00 

$908 50 

Smith College Subscription I367 00 

Alumnae *' 473 18 

840 18 

Vassar College Subscription $163 25 

Alumnae " 359 66 

522 91 

Bryn Mawr College Subscription $231 50 

Alumnae *' 214 00 

445 50 

Radcliffe College Subscription I48 25 

Alumnae ' 105 50 

153 75 

Wells College Subscription $76 00 

iflumnae " 92 00 

168 00 

Packer Collegiate College Subscription $20 00 

Institute Alumnae " .16000 

180 00 

Cornell Alumnae Subscription 100 00 

Swarthmore College Subscription $46 00 

Alumnae " 05 00 

Ill 00 

Elmira College Subscription I36 00 

Alumnae " 89 00 

125 00 

Mt. Holyoke College Subscription $75 00 

Alumnae " 25 00 

100 00 

Woman's College College Subscription $85 00 

of Baltimore Alumnae " 15 00 

100 00 

Barnard College Subscription $92 75 

Alumnae " 20 00 

112 75 

Barnard Sub Chapter 16 00 

Other Colleges 120 00 

Non-Collegiate 982 00 

Donations 166 00 

$5,151 59 



13 



NEW YORK SETTLEMENT. 

P5 Rivington Street, 

REPORT OF HEAD WORKER. 

The sixth year of our Settlement life has been quiet and 
uneventful. The number of residents has not been so large 
as during the previous year, the work for the unemployed has 
ceased, and "the hard times" made new and large under-' 
takings impossible. This year, however, an unusual number 
of people have come from up-town to give efficient service in 
the clubs and classes, and they have added much to the activity 
of the house. Some of the clubs have been frequently enter- 
tained at up-town houses, and during the summer a number of 
invitations have been accepted for delightful days in the 
country. 

Most of our Ci^UBS and Ci^asses of the previous years have 
been continued. We appreciate our work with the children all 
the more because so many of our eighteen year old boys and girls 
came to the house when they were children, and our strongest 
tie is that the young people and The Settlement have grown 
up together. The young men who were and are club boys 
are able to assist us in many ways, and they are also very quick 
to answer the call for help in any neighborhood matter. A 
small chorus for young men has been their only formal organ- 
ization this year, but we have seen a good deal of them in 
many informal ways. The two boys clubs, The Keystones and 
The Clan Alpine, have continued to meet with us. The young 
women have their regular organization, with its various classes 
and their feeling of affection for the house is strong. We have 
now also a club for the younger girls who have just gone to 
work. The Women's Home Improvement Club has its regular 
weekly meeting, with its helpful talk and the general conversa- 
tion over coffee and cake, and their monthly receptions have 
given pleasure to many guests. All the clubs have given fre- 
quent entertainments and there has been the usual neighborly 
calling. There is an increasing desire on the part of the little 
girls for instruction in sewing, and a cooking class makes a 
most delightful and exciting afternoon. With the sewing or 
cooking we have a pleasant informal time together, and the 
children pick up a great deal. ** Why don't you speak right 
English," said one small girl to another, *' like Miss W — and 
me?" ** You have so many things," the children often say 
to us, and our games and books are veritable treasures to them. 
We play games about our round tables, atid^N^ ^ ^ -Tc^^%\si 



14 

be taken home for the winter evenings. Our library books are 
the very best books we can find, histories and stories of adven- 
ture for the boys, and for the girls fiairy stories and ** stories 
about a girl," and sometimes love stories. We have eighteen 
small libraries in the public schools, and we give books for 
Christmas presents. Some of the dolls given to the children 
have been a delight, not only to the little ones themselves but 
also to their mothers, who have greatly appreciated the dainty 
clothes with their tiny stitches. We have had an unusual 
number of beautiful photographs this year, and the young 
woman just back from Europe is always a welcome person. 
Our pianos have been so much in demand that we now have 
four of them, aud they have steady use. An interesting ex- 
periment has been tried by a music teacher, who has taken 
classes in the piano and violin. The pupils range in age from 
six years up to the young men and women ; some are begin- 
ners and others have studied music for two or three years. 
They pay ten cents for a lesson of fifteen minutes, and this 
covers the rent of the piano, and the cost of music, and pays 
the teacher a small amount. A few rent their violins, but 
many save money and buy them through the teacher at greatly 
reduced rates. All of the pupils are persevering, the majority 
of them are promising, and some of them are talented. The 
older ones who show most talent will soon be able to help in 
the instruction of the younger, and so perhaps earn enough to 
enable them to enter some conservatory where they can have 
greater advantages. 

The report of the third year of the Kindergarten is made 
by the teacher in charge. 

'* We believe that the Kindergarten is the right and natural 
method of education for young children — for children of the 
rich or of the poor, in the city or the country, simply because 
they are children, and we believe, too, that the principles of 
the Kindergarten are the principles of all true education, 
though the methods must vary as the child grows and develops. 

The children here are so isolated and know so little of life 
beyond their own immediate neighborhood, and so little of the 
processes of nature, that it is hard at first to interest them in 
the usual Kindergarten songs and games. However, we have 
many pictures, and make many visits to the Park, and they 
have always become interested very soon and delight in hear- 
ing what the farmer, and miller, and carpenter, and black- 
smith have done for them, and at lunch time they love to count 
*how many people have worked to get their food ready.' 
With this comes naturally the thought that they, too, must 
help, and they are eager to find little things to do at home and 
in the Kindergarten. They learn, too, how the rain and sun- 
shine, the wind and * Jack Frost ' ' ^, and last year, 
as before, we have found an eag onse to the Na- 



ture songs and talks that is really pathetic wheu we consider 
how little there is in their surroundings to satisfy their interest 
in Nature. The garden has again been a great joy, and the 
flowers have heen watched and tended with the most loving 
care. Last winter we gave more time than usual to talks 
about light, and especially to the moon and stars, and the 
children were very responsive. Since the earth in this neigh- 
borhood cannot be considered very beautiful or inspiring we 
were glad to lead them to look at the sky, and we found that 
they noticed a great deal. Several children told us that they 
had seen ' Father and Mother stars and baby stars, ' and one 
baby saw 'Three stars marching.' One evening two little 
boys rang the bell and called us down to see a star which had 
come out very early. ' The little new moon ' was eagerly 
greeted and watched throughout its changes, and the ' moon- 
songs ' were perhaps the favorite songs. The visit to the 
country in June was very happy and successful. This year 
we took the children ill two parties, each for one week, and 
this plan worked better than taking a ver\' large party at once. 
The two cows, 'Betty' and 'Buttercup,' were a source of 
unfailing interest, and the first day the children spent most of 
the time watching them. We fed the chickens, who were 
most obligingly tame, and we became very famihar with birds 
and bees and butterflies. The second week there was a great 
deal of rain, and the children were confined to the piazza much 
of the time, and there was really no fretting, and though they 
were noisy they were happy and contented and always pleased 
to sing the rain-songs and to talk about ' How the rain is help- 
ing." 

The ■ Busy Bees,' the Kindergarten graduates of the year 
before, came to the house twice a week through the school 
year, doing advanced Kindergarten work, and it was encourag- 
ing to leara that most of them were doing very well in school 
and learning rapidly. At the end of the year they gave a 
party to their mothers. The children saug and then the 
mothers joined with them in some Kindergarten games, and 
seemed to enjoy them quite as much as the children. After- 
wards the children served their mothers with lemonade and 
cake, and all seemed very happy. 

There can be no doubt that the Kindergarten is a help in 
coming into friendly relations with our neighbors. We notice 
that the ' Kindergarten Mothers ' are especially ready to come 
to the house, and usually are in a majority at any entertain- 
ment given for the mothers. This last year their club was 
regularly organized and became a self-governing body, and 
this, we find, has added to their interest. Each month a com- 
mittee has been appointed to \A%\t those mothers who did not 
Hi.,1 ^^ ^j^g club, or who have been absent from several 
gs, and the result has been qulle a\ai^e- ' """"•^■ci'va q 



i6 

members. Another committee has helped to provide entertain- 
ment for the meetings, and the members have often brought 
friends to sing or play. When we had our party in March the 
mothers decorated the room and took charge of the refresh- 
ments, and the next morning several came early and washed 
the dishes and put the room in order before Kindergarten 
opened. This spirit of co-operation among the mothers we 
find very encouraging." 

The Summer-house life is a perpetual *' good- time. " One 
of the residents writes : * 'Our hill-top Siunmer at Manhasset was 
a great success. On our height we caught all the visiting 
breezes from the far away ocean to the Sound, which lay at 
our feet, and the flitting sails and the steamers kept us in touch 
with the world, the busy, hustling world which we had ex- 
changed for a while for this new one, so free and so different, 
bounded by its great stretches of woods and water. One can 
but dimly understand what a revelation this all was to the pale 
sickly child who timidly asked to be allowed to pick just one 
flower, a wild flower. Several of the children have never spent 
even a day in the country, and watched spell-bound the glories 
of the sunsets over the Sound ; while others had never watched 
the skies at night with their brilliant etchings ; and the stories 
of the constellations were new and wonderful fairy tales, which 
hushed even the noisiest. In addition to this world of beauty, 
our practical daily living was systematized so as to give each 
one the comfort and joy of a * really true home.' There was 
nothing institutional about the house. We lived like a large 
happy family. Our children and our boys and girls, for so we 
have grown to call them, came to us in parties of twenty or 
twenty-five to stay a fortnight, and although we led such a 
free life, it seemed necessary to make only two rules — * Keep 
quiet after you go to bed at night ' and * Don't go into the 
neighboring orchards. ' It was interesting to observe that the 
new Eve was more tractable than her Biblical sister — and in- 
finitely more so than young Adam. But then, it was really 
very hard to see, day after day, red apples dangling before 
one's eyes, with no fruit-stand man in sight. The hardship 
was partly overcome, however, by the generosity of our neigh- 
bors, who brought us large baskets of apples and pears, and a 
coveted invitation often came before the children left, for them 
to come and help themselves to the fruit, which they did, 
cherishing the greenest apples for Mama to make into pies, and 
the reddest ones for the little brother or sister who could not 
come. We almost lived out of doors and on the large gener- 
ous piazzas, and even took our meals under a big silver- maple 
tree, where we had sort of Noah's Ark gathering. Mother 
Hen and her chicks, the special property of the Kindergarten 
children, were always punctual, settino^ a o-ood example to the 
tardy ones, while the three pusj diligently from 



17 

place to place ; and our nice cows grew so friendly that they 
came quite near, mutely begging with their soft great eyes. 
The enjoyment of the day began early, when the butcher, 
baker and grocer came to take orders. You have no idea how 
many hoys and girls a really generous grocery wagon can hold, 
when there is a very kind man driving it. One after another 
the various carts would rattle off down the hill, bubbling over 
with laughing sunburned children, off for their daily roiuids. 
I don't know what we should have done without our kind 
neighbors. If it had not been for their remembrance of us, we 
would have had to be content with much simpler pleasures 
than the gala day at Manhattan Beach, the beautiful sail on 
the Sound to Roton Point, and the joy of having our boat and 
crew to take ns to Glen Island, where there were so many in- 
teresting real animals to study and wonder at, and make- 
beheve ones to ride upon, on the merry-go-round. In all 
these good times together, many warm friends were gained, 
and our boys and girls were asked back to visit, and delightful 
and permanent friendships formed. On coming back to our 
city home at the Settlement we were touched by the strengthen- 
ing of the ties between the children and ourselves, a sort of 
radiance from our happy summer together. The older boys 
and girls have come to see us to talk over each small incident 
of our holiday, and at the end of each talk we have found our- 
selres making plans for just such a happy time together next 
year, with the unspoken wish on our parts and on that of our 
boys and girls, too, I am sure, that the friendship would go on 
being worth while, and that in this or that little way we might 
be able to show our greater good-will and deeper appreciation 
of each other." 

Though we still feel that our best work is done quietly and 
as individuals who simply live for a part of the year an ordinary 
life on Rivington street instead of on a less crowded street, yet 
we have of necessity entered somewhat into public life. 

Our Interest in the Schools dates back to the first year 
when an undersized, delicate little girl wasfoundbyanoEBcerof 
the law illegally employed and sent back to school. The fore- 
woman said she would soon be in the store again, and, to our 
surprise, the teacher promptly gave her a note saying that she 
need not attend school. There was no room. Since that lime 
we have said all we could in public and in private, at Albany 
and in New York, to make a community that has been crimi- 
nally neghgent in regard to its schools understand this one 
point, that the schools are overcrowded. When there are sixty 
children under one teacher in the grammar department and 
seventy under one teacher in a primary room, it is not sur- 
prising that the cliildren saj', ' ' I think that is what the teacher 
said. I could not hear exactly," The Teachhks'.- 




i8 

held its meetings through the year under the auspices of the Uni- 
versity and College Settlements, and many of the teachers are 
very friendly and helpful. We are waiting most anxiously for 
those great changes which are necessary before the Public 
Schools in New York can become the leading schools in the 
country. 

Our Work on Behalf of City Improvement has con- 
tinued, and we have especially tried to stir up our neighbors to 
do their best to keep the streets clean. The Settlement has co- 
operated with the Commissioner of Street Cleaning and with 
the other societies interested in this same work. This particu- 
lar section of the city we have taken under our care, and we 
have endeavored to help our city ofl&cials in their war against 
the careless habits of some of our neighbors. Both the residents 
and many of the club members have felt a warm interest in the 
reform movement in our city government. We have been asked 
a number of times to speak in regard to tenement house ques- 
tions. We regard ourselves as speaking for our neighbors, 
and our friends in the neighborhood are always ready to gather 
facts for us. We have testified before the Tenement House 
Committee and before the Committee to investigate the con- 
ditions of women wage earners, and we have given our expe- 
rience on various other occasions. 

Many of the practical questions connected with the welfare 
of the WAGE EARNERS we are deeply interested in. We are now 
so situated that we know many working men and their families. 
Our sympathy is strongly with them, and yet coming as we do 
from families where our fathers and brothers are lawyers, 
manufacturers, and business men, we feel that we are perhaps 
peculiarly well able to take an all-around view of many ques- 
tions. We feel thus when we come into contact with the 
college professor, who says, ** Working man ! How could I 
ever know a working man ?' * no less than when we listen to 
the labor leader, who often seems to know very little as to the 
thought and feeling of ** The Boss.*' 

The education gained by a residence in our Settlement is all 
the more valuable because we do not come in search of it. We 
live here to help our neighborhood in every way possible, and 
to all of us there come many opportunities for helpfulness. 
The life is an interesting one to every resident. Those who 
can live here for only a short time often leave the Settlement 
with the greatest reluctance, as some one said : * ' It is not hard 
to stay here, it is only hard to go away." With many who 
come there is also the deeper underlying motive, the earnest 
desire to live a more Christ-like life. They cannot endure the 
thought of having received so much without at least trying to 
share with those to whom less has been given. 

The average number of residents ^^ '^out the year has 
been eight 



19 

RESIDENTS. 

College. Date. 

Benton, Minnie L September to present time. 

Buell Lucy B..- .January to June. 

^Dresser, Carol M Wellesley .January to February, June. 

Evans, Ethel R Vassar August to present time. 

Flagg, Nancy L Wellesley .January to May. 

Hall, Sophie M March. 

Hammond, P. C November. 

Jewett, Mary B. Wellesley July. 

Jones, Myrtle L January to May. 

Moore, Marion J October to December. 

Parker, Elizabeth S May. 

Pelton, Edith C. February to April. 

Pappleton, Elizabeth R Vassar September. 

*Robbins, Jane E Smith | fj>^Zl^ t'ime^''*^'"'"- 

*i?^KK!«o iTi; u 4.uj^ I October to February. 

*Robbms, Elizabeth D | j^^g ^^ present time. 

Smith, Caroline R March and April. 

Steele, Eloise Oberlin September to June. 

^Stevens, Lillian M Vassar July and August. 

*Trask, Mary G September to present time. 

Worrall, Sallie E ..Weilesley November. 

*Woolfolk, Ada S... Wellesley September to August. 

JANK Elizabeth Robbins. 

* In residence in previous years. 



20 



i 



00 



4 






o o^o o o o o M M ^TRo lov: 



<S 2 *||^!8&8 8«8 S 



S 

g 



g 

H 



O 



(4 
O 

i 



!5 



H 

n 
S 
H 

H 
C/) 

O 
H 



H 

Q 

Ex] 

eu 
X 
Ex] 



JH 




^ 




H 


H 


^ 


Cm 


§ 





s 
o 

fa 



(0 
GQ U 






X 

H Ex] 



Q 

(0 

H 

04 

u 










CO 

c 
o 

t« 

c 
> 

o 

2 



a"C*c boo.2 S 

rS * <2 o « 3 c 



8 



tn 

tn 

C 

a 
§ ea 

s Is 



•d 
ki 

OS 

I 

u 



00 t^iOQ 
M C« M O 

r>* t*i ON o 



C 

o 

c 
> 

m 

O 

^5 



•^00 

M 
O 



ft 



(0 



H 

NN O 

U 
Ex] 

0!i 



> 
c 

i2 

e 

0) 

CO 

0) 

& 

o 



0) 



c 
o 



S|=-: 



£ in 
C J-* 

ctfc/) 0) 

S o S 

S mT^ 

S 4) O 
>§C/3U 

__ _ 6 (ft i> 
-p 45 o c o 

o ♦^•a ti S 

cd CO 
O ©OS 

H ttQ< 



I 



a 

4> 

ifi 

e 

cd 

e 
o 

4> 
U 

c 
ti 

n 



•d 

t 

e 

•d 

■£ 

U 



21 



1 






00 
o 



R 



•^OOOVO 1^0000 t^ 
lO c*) *0 iM M M ro 



O 00 t^ <-• M 
fO-^JOOO 



4§ 



h 


H 
X 

u 

5 



4> 
4> 

to 
o 

a 

• «i4 

>> 

s 

• 

o 
^5 



en 

CO 

■o a 
o 

n n 



0) 



•o 

e 

ids 

.2 g . 
§ odS .• rt 2 j§ c 



8 

a 

OS 



c 
3 



4> 
CO 
(0 

C 



4) 
CO 

o 
X.. 



^888 



00 HI 
fOfO 


S8 

00 « 



lO 



bo . 

e V 
•s ^ 



S 



i> 
gco 

M to 

MM 



(0 
(U 
(0 

a 

(U 

do 
c u 

c « 
O 
fl 2 k- 



(0 






(0 

a 
o 

a 

a 
o 

Q 



u 

4) 

a 
CO 

PQ 



J5 
(2^ 



ex . 



a 

4) 
(0 



2 8'^ 

0} ^ 4-t C4 



^ 






0^ 



en 

2. 

I. 

pd 



OS 

t 
•a 

s 

I 



22 



PHILADELPHIA SETTLEMENT. 

6iy Carver Street. 

REPORT OF TTRAD ^WORKER. 

In April, 1895, the Philadelphia College Settlement entered 
upon the fourth year of its existence. The experience of three 
years is not enough to justify generalization, especially as no 
one person has been in residence during the entire time. Yet 
in several different directions e\adence is accumulating which 
leads us to believe that we are not mistaken in advocating cer- 
tain opinions which we are about to advance. 

In an early report of the College Settlements Association its 
secretary. Miss Vida Scudder, writes that the first aim, the 
primary ambition of the College Settlement, is to concentrate 
* * its power on the definite effort to bring brightness and help 
to a limited neighborhood. ' * Further on she says, * * The edu- 
cation of our College women is one great mission of the College 
Settlement. . . For in the awakened intelligence and 

consecration of the cultured class lies, after all, the most serious 
promise for the success of that great movement toward social 
reconstruction in the midst of which we Uve. * ' 

In the five j-ears that have elapsed since the organization of 
the College Settlements Association we have not lost sight of 
either aim. In its broadest interpretation still our only ambi- 
tion for our neighborhood is to bring to it * * brightness and 
help,** though, as time goes on, we see more and more clearly 
the many ways, unrealized at first, in which help maj- be 
brought. Nor have we come to believe less in the Settlement 
idea as a powerful factor in moulding the life of the College 
girl who may come to us as a resident, or in the broadening 
and deepening of the sympathies which may come from it to 
the College students whose only connection can be with the 
College Chapter of the Association. 

But experience, we believe, begins to show us a way by 
which both of these aims maj' be more completely attained. 
Each Settlement probably has felt, more or less, the difficulties 
that have come from a constantly changing family of residents. 
The permanencj' of the Head Worker alone is not sufficient to 
secure and fix that accurate knowledge of the neighborhood 
and its needs which must be the foundation for effective work. 
Again there are large and important opportunities for helpful- 
ness in connection with other agencies for good in our several 
localities, of which only those 'whose term of residence is of 
some length can avail themselves, ^wc^ ^t^ VJafc ^errvK«& ^C 
6lettlefiient residents on local boaiAs ox eonm»xxss&, ^xtfaaficvssoa^. 




philanthropic, or municipal. Appointmeuts to these positions! 
will not be made of persons who will live in the district a few " 
months at best. Nor should they be, as a chief contribution 
of a Settlement worker to such boards is her intimate knowl- 
edge of the situation. Obviously the Head Worker can do 
only a limited amount of work. 

In the social life, in the educational classes, in the thousand 
and one acts of neighborl}' service which only the Settlement 
resident can render, and in which quite as much as in the work 
of a semi-public character the real spirit of Settlement life will j 
always be found, there is ample opportmiity for the College j 
girl whose stay can be for the winter or perhaps only for a few 
months. Her contribution to our life is of great value. She 
brings us fresh enthusiasm, fresh interest, fresh ideas. She is 
quite as necessary to the development of the Settlement as the 
Settlement is to her. 

But College graduates of independent fortunes are rare. So 
long as a father provides for a daughter he feels with some 
justice that her home should be beneath his roof. He may be 
willing to spare her for a winter, even a year, but there are 
few fathers who, unless she marries or necessity compels, think 
it right for his daughter to be permanently away from home. 
With self-supporting women the case is different. In these 
days there are a growing number of young women who, what- 
ever the financial condition of their parents, wish to take care 
of themselves, and an increasing number of parents who respect 
this natural wish of trained and educated women. In the 
neighborhood in which our Settlements are located are posi- 
tions of various sorts and affording various incomes which are 
filled, or may be filled, by women. The day has gone by when 
it is thought that a college education is wasted on a primary 
teacher or even on a garbage inspector ! 

Is it not wise to have in each Settlement a permanent nucleus 
of self-supporting women whose work, so far as may be, lies . 
in the immediate neighborhood in which the Settlement is 
located ? These women should not be women who come to the 
Settlement merely as to a convenient boarding house, but 
women who take these positions as a means to an end : to 
enable thein to live peniianeiitly at the Settlement, to become 
an actual part of the life of the neighborhood, and through 
their special occupations, and outside of them, to uplift so far 
as in them lies the ideals of the community. This permanent 
nucleus, with its larger knowledge, its more intimate acquaint- 
ance, cannot fail, we believe, to be a most powerfiil factor, not 
only in the neighborhood life but in the influence of the Settle- 
ment upon the College girl who is a transient resident and f 
whom we always hope to keep room and a warm welcome. 

What such an influence would be and how it would worlcj 
itself out there is neither time nor need to dwell u 



24 

In England in some of the men's Settlements, where the 
workers have been in residence for considerable lengths of time 
many important local reforms have come about through the 
residents who as citizens of their district take active part in its 
municipal life. Among the women's Settlements in this coun- 
try, Hull House has been particularly fortunate in having a 
number of women who have been in residence for a term of 
years. Much that it has accomplished has undoubtedly been 
due to this. 

During the past year the Philadelphia Settlement has taken 
steps in this direction. In addition to our Head Worker and 
Assistant Head Worker, we have always been fortunate in 
having a resident physician. Dr. Frances C. VanGasken, who 
for the past eighteen months has filled that place, has from her 
position as Medical Inspector for the Board of Health, brought 
us in touch with the authorities and enabled us to do increas- 
ing service in ridding the neighborhood of minor unsanitary 
conditions. 

In the early Winter the Board of Education, in compliance 
with a request from the Settlement, appointed as the second 
teacher in the Kindergarten, a resident of the Settlement who 
is a trained kindergartner. It is unnecessary to enlarge upon 
the opportunity for good open to a kindergartner who lives in 
the immediate neighborhood in which she teaches, who knows 
the homes and parents of the children under her charge, or 
upon her contribution, through her friendly visits, to the fiiind 
of knowledge of the neighborhood. 

Although the Kitchen and Coffee House does not open to 
the public until October i, 1895, the Director has been in resi- 
dence since November i, 1894. Her acquaintance with the 
problem to be solved through the kitchen, gained by the ex- 
periments with the school children's lunches and in other ways, 
we believe, add much to our chance of success in our new en- 
terprise. 

The latest addition to the permanent force is in the appoint- 
ment of a resident as assistant librarian for the College Settle- 
ment Branch of the Free Library of Philadelphia. The resi- 
dent so appointed is fitted for the position, not only through 
her special study of English in her College course, but through 
her acquaintance with the young people of the neighborhood, 
their tastes and possibilities gained through eight months of 
life in St. Mary street. 

Thus at the time of writing we have a permanent force of 
six, all of whose work is in direct connection with the Settle- 
ment, as well as with the neighborhood, and whose positions 
^isure their indefinite stay. We believe that in securing these 
possibilities for permanence we have laid the foundation for 
greater helpfulness in the future. 
Daring the past winter the resif^ ^^presentatives of 



the Settlement have been called upon to take part in confer- 
ences and public meetings on subjects which affected not only 
our neighborhood but the entire community, aud where it was 
thought that our experience would be of value. Thus we were 
represented at the conference of the Child Saving Agencies of 
Philadelphia, held at the school building of the Rodef Shalom 
Congregation, where our delegates spoke on " What shall we 
do with the children out of school hours ? " ' 

To the three conferences held under the auspices of the 
Women's Union in the Interest of Labor we sent two delegates. 
At these meetings were considered the methods aud laws tend- 
ing toward the abolition of the Sweating System, the proposed 
amendments in the laws governing the erection of tenement 
houses, aud the investigation of the sanitary conditions of the 
Bake Shops of our city. 

One resident served on the committee which made a night 
trip through the bakeries, and the final meeting in the interest 
of the bakers was held in our own Hall. 

A resident also spoke on the Sweating System before the 
Women's Health Protective Association. 

Several members of the Kxecutive Committee and two resi- 
dents are members of the Civic Club of Philadelphia, aud the 
connection has been a helpful one. Dr. VanGasken read a 
paper before the club on the "Tenement House Evil and its 
Remedy," in which she presented valuable statistics relating 
to the tenement houses in our immediate neighborhood which 
she had most carefully collected. The Settlement's point of 
view was also represented in the Social and Educational Sec- 
tions on questions touched upon by Settlement work. 

One of the most interesting of the experiences of the Settle- 
ment during the past winter was its part in the campaign con- 
ducted by the Educational and Municipal Sections of the Civic 
Club in the Seventh Ward, for the purpose of putting two 
women upon the Sectional School Board. The Settlement 
took charge of the canvas of the First Division, and in ten 
days made over eight hundred calls, argued the questions at 
issue with the voters, circulated literature and sample ballots, 
and gave invitations to the political meetings held in the Set- 
tlement Hall. At the last meeting, on election eve. one of the 
uniformed boy's clubs of the Settlement paraded with band and 
transparencies, speeches were made and much enthusiasm 
manifested. Although our candidates were defeated, the value 
of the experience was left, and it is well worth the hard 
work given to obtain it. We learned more of cereain neighbor- 
hoods than we had ever known before and realized to the full 
the need of municipal work by enlightened men and women. 

A complete account of the campaign, iucluding a sketch of 
the Settlement's share in it, has been printed by the American 
Academy of Social and Pohtical Science, pamphlet number 150. 



26 

The administration of relief in our neighborhood has always 
been a question which has deeply interested us. We are con- 
stantly made aware of the evils resulting from lack of discrimi- 
nation and bad methods, and more seldom come across the 
good results of a wise and truly helpful charity. We have 
never been able to do in this direction as much as we ought, 
for our position and residence in the neighborhood gives us 
advantages not enjoyed by most philanthropic workers. I^ast 
winter we made an efifort, very small indeed, but which we 
hope to follow up, towards working in co-operation with the 
Fifth Ward Branch of the Society for Organizing Charity. One 
resident became a visitor, under the direction of the local 
Superintendent. A little over $ioo, which had been given us 
for that purpose, was spent by the Superintendent in payment 
of wages to men. The work consisted in clearing the ice and 
snow from Carver street and in days* labor in the Park. It was 
given as test work in cases where there was an able bodied 
man in the family applying for relief, after investigation by the 
visitor. The amount of work in each case was only enough 
to bring in as wages a sum equal to that which would have 
been given outright by the Superintendent, had there been no 
work. The test was inadequate to meet the needs of all cases, 
since the only work available was hard manual labor, and the 
number of cases in which the experiment was tried was limited 
by the small amount of money at command, but it was sufl&- 
cient to show that our belief in the necessity of a work test was- 
well founded. In about one-fifth of the cases, where our visi- 
tor could discover no reason beyond the fact that flie man 
'* didn't like that sort of work,'* or some equally insufficient 
excuse, the work was refused. 

The rousing of the residents of the Fifth Ward to the evils 
of the present system, and the great necessity for a change is 
one of the difficult problems which the Settlement ought to 
solve. The local Superintendent of the Society for Organizing" 
Charities does all that lies in his power, but with no efficient 
corps of visitors and little money it is impossible to expect him, 
single handed, to cope with the situation. If we can do no 
more we shall at least offer the services of one or two residents 
as visitors for the coming winter. 

We are delighted to be able to announce to our friends out- 
side of Philadelphia that the Theodore Starr Park is no- 
longer a dream of the future, but a fact in the process of reali- 
zation. With the exception of the row of houses in Sixth 
street, the tearing down has been completed and the rubbish 
will be cleared away before this report is printed. We have 
reason to believe that the Sixth street houses will go this win- 
ter. The work of laying out the Square will be pushed for- 
ward, we have been assured, as rapidly as possible, and the 
authorities have been most kind in statr t wishes are 




to be consulted in the matter. We plan to have the westemj 
two-thirds laid out as a Park, with walks, trees, flower beds, 
and the $500 fountain to be given by the Fairmount Park Art 
Association. The other third we wish to have enclosed with a 
fence and wire screen and fitted up as a play-ground for the 
children of the neighborhood. 

Already the influence of the Park is making itself felt. At 
least half a dozen houses facing it have been repainted and 
otherwise much improved. The demolition of the old rookeries 
at Seventh and Lombard, and the erection of the building to 
he used as the Kitchen and Coffee House with a fine tenement 
house adjoining it in Lombard street has done away with a 
most unsightly and unsanitary comer. 

The purchase of the house on the corner of Seventh and 
Carver streets, together with the four adjoining houses on Car- 
ver street, by a lady who means to put them into proper re- 
pair and use them as tenements carries on the good work. 
Both this and the Lombard street property will be in charge of 
women rent collectors, friends of the Settlement. 

A new enterprise is the printing of our little monthly paper, 
The College Settlement News. Designed in the beginning to 
promote the interests of onr clubs it has been finding its way 
to a larger circle of friends. As we hope to have a letter each 
month from Denison House and the New York Settlement, it 
will help keep our friends in touch with the most interesting 
events in onr lives as they occur. We only wish we were rich 
enough to publish news from Hull House, Kingsley House, 
and the others ; but, alas ! it costs money to print, and so far 
we have had only a hand-to-mouth existence. ■ 

The IJducationai, work of the Settlement, including clubs, J 
classes, and lectures, has been along the same lines as in " 
former years. The following program shows our regular 
engagements. Space forbids any detailed account of this part 
of our work. Those especially interested in any special part 
will find a fuller description in the local report of the Philadel- 
phia Settlement. J 

PROGRAM OF REGULAR WORK. I 

Winter of '94 and '95. ^k 

Dailv. I 

Kindergarleii, Branch of James Fortin School (Siith and Lombard Sis.). I 
9 to la A. M., daily except Saturday and Sunday. I 

Doctor'! Office Hours, 5 to 7 P. M. , daily except Sunday. ConsultalioB. , 
and medicine, 25 ctB. ; house visits, i cts. 

Savings Bank, Branch of the Theodore Starr Savings Bank, Open froin 
7 to 8 P. M., except Sunday. 

Library, Open from i to 9 P. M., Sundays 10 A. M. to 8 P. M. ; forreaders 
over 14 years of age. Branch of Free Library of Philadelphia. 

MONDAV. m 

Carpenter Shop, 7.30 to 9.30 P, M. Instruction given by experienced car^| 

penter. Fee. 15 cents per month. ^1 

Freehand Drawing, S to 10 P. M. Fee, ijcents per month. ^H 

Reading Onb, 8 to 16 P. M. ^ ^1 



28 

Tuesday. 

Carpenter Shop. 

Mechanical Drawing ^ 7.30 to 9.30 P. M. 

English Classes f 8 to 9.15 P. Ni. Free to adults. 

Jargon Class (residents), 9.15 to 10.15. 

Clover Club, 8 to 10 P. M. Girls between the ages of 12 and 15. 

Wednesday. 

Social Science Class (residents), 9 to 10 A. M. 

lVomen*s Sewing Class, 2 to 4 r. M. 

Little Helpers, 4 to 5.30 P. M. Girls over 15 years. 

Freehand Drawing, 

Arena Club, 8 to 10 P. M. Young women over 16 years eligible to mem- 
bership. Studies in American History three evenings m the month. 
Social meeting last Wednesday in the month. 

Thursday. 

Visitors* Meeting, Co-operative Coal Club, first and third Thursdays, 

II to 12 A. M. 
Carpenter Shop. 
Mechanical Drawing. 
English Classes. 
Jargon Class. 
Vl^hittier Club, 8 to 9.30 P. M. Girls over 12 years. 

Friday. 

Carpenter Shop. 

Dudley Pioneer Corps, 8 to 10 P. M. Boys over 15 years. Military drill 

and American History. 
Holly Club, 8 to 10 P. M. Girls over 10 years. 
Residents at Home, 2 to 6 P. M. 

Saturday. 

Games, 10 to 12 A. M. 

Gymnastic Classes, 2.30 to 5.30 P. M., for girls. 

Tyndall Club. 8 to 10 P. M. Members elected by ballot after presenta- 
tion of name by member. Subject of study at present, Cnemistry. 
Lectures and Laboratory work. 

Davis Cadets (Drill Corps), 8 to 10 P. M. Boys over 12 years. Military 
Drill, History, and Parliamentary Law. 

Daisy Chain, 8 to 10 P. M. Girls from 13 to 16 years ; number limited to 
twenty. French one hour, social amusements one hour. 

Rent Collecting, 8 to 9 P. M. 

Sunday. 

Citizenship Club, 4 P. M. 

Choir dAiI, 7 to 8 P. M. 

Lecture, 8 to 9.30 P. M. All adults welcome. 

The delay in opening the Kitchen and Coffee House has not 
been time wasted. 

When we found that by waiting for the Seventh and Lom- 
bard street building we could have a new house, planned ex- 
pressly to meet our needs, it seemed best to postpone opening. 
Miss Alice Johnston, who is to take charge of the Kitchen and 
Coffee House, spent the winter in becoming acquainted with 
the neighborhood, and in conducting some experiments with 
school children's lunches. 

The James Fortin School was the scene of the first experi- 
ments. The Committee of the School Board and the principal 
and teachers were in most hearty sympathy with us and did 
all in their power to help. They had long felt the need of 
better food for the children, many of whom bre^^asted regu- 
larly on what they could purcViase mt\i a ^ei?iny. This was 




29 

■usually broken cakes or sour balls. We attempted to furnish 
for the same small sum, something inviting and nutritious. 
The result has been verj' satisfactory, though still a very small 
per cent, of the children patronize us. 

The Settlement residents spent most of their spare time 
during an entire month in calhng upon the mothers of the 
■children in the Fortin School. We wished to secure their co- 
operation iu the matter of the investment of the daily penny, 
and to find out what the children usually had for breakfast. 
As we had supposed, the breakfast in the majority of cases was 
bread or cake and coffee or tea. In all about 350 mothers were 
"visited, and the result was most interesting information and an 
increase on the purchase of the lunches and milk 

The milk was Abbott's "partly skimmed, ' ' which we could 
sell for one cent per half pint. 

The following table shows cost, weight, and food value of 
the different lunches : 

We are indebted to Prof. Wm. Atwater for the analysis of 
the meat paste used in the meat sandwiches. 





Wright. 


Com. 


Proteid. 


aS.. 


Carbo- 


Calorica. 


Bread Sandwiches... 


Hoz. 
2H0Z. 


3 


S.43 
3-42 
3.7J 

i:« 

9.07 


.go 

1? 

4-07 


36.30 


158.50 








Meat Sandwiches 


.0052 


31.25 


'kf 









We took possession of the new building September 1st. 
Since that time we have fitted up the Kitchen and Coffee 
House, the former with the most approved cooking apparatus, 
including steam -jacketed soup kettles and a Middleby bake- 
oven, the latter with as much taste as our limited purse would 
permit. The entire second floor has been arranged for the 
College Settlement Branch of the Free Library of Philadel- 

?hia. We are, we think, justly proud of these tasteful rooms, 
'here are six rooms each on the third and fourth floors. Our 
janitor, with his family, occupies three rooms. The overflow 
of Settlement residents fills several more. Three young women, 
who help more or less iu Settlement work, have taken three 
rooms. The residents take their meals at the old hoiise. the 
others, excepting the janitor's family, in the Coffee House. 
The new building look.= out on the Theodore Starr Park. We 
think it charming in every way. It may be well to state that 
■we do not own the building, but rent it. The funds to fit it 
up and to run the Kitchen and Coffee House until we can clear 
expenses come from friends specially in.teTea.'yijivTv'Ocaa'^wf*.. 



30 

The Kitchen and Coffee House will open to the public 
about October ist. 

Our Social Life last winter was unusually varied and en- 
tertaining. As we become better acquainted, hospitality is na 
longer a one-sided affair. We receive, as well as give invita- 
tions. We have attended a wedding, a confirmation party, 
and a fancy dress party, as well as more informal affairs. 
When we are asked to lend our fruit dishes or our water bottles 
to grace the birthday feast of one of our young men, and when 
we borrow the beautiful brass candlesticks, heirlooms in the 
family across the streeet, for our Martha Washington party, 
we feel that we are becoming an organic part of the neighbor- 
hood life. 

Through the winter, a monthly dancing party has been given 
in the Hall, each of the older clubs in turn issuing the invita- 
tions and taking the whole responsibiHty, finand^ and other- 
wise of the entertainment. 

They have been most enjoyable, and will be continued. 
During the summer, the Hall not being in constant use, two- 
dubs of young men and women respectivdy have danced there 
two evenings each week. 

At Christmas, through the generosity of fiiends, we were able 
to give ten Christmas parties. The tree was lighted each time, 
but gifts were confined to the children. The parties for the 
older young people were delightful. Games, dandng, singing,, 
ice cream, cake, candy and fruit were the order of the evening. 

An afternoon tea given to the members of the Co-operative 
Coal Club was one of the pleasant events of the spring. 

Entertainments in the Hall, more or less public in (iaracter,. 
were almost weekly events. Of these, two of the most inter- 
esting, unique and well patronized were the presentations by 
the Davis Cadets of * * Scenes from the Life of Napoleon Bona- 
parte" and '* Julius Caesar." The latter was espedally fine. 
Caesar, Brutus, Cassius and Marc Antony were portrayed in a 
way which showed so much appredation of the spirit, as welL 
as so much ability in the acting, that we really felt out of pa- 
tience with the friends who objected to seeing * * Shakespeare 
Murdered. * * 

During the summer the residents were few, and much of the 
time was spent in the management of our Country Home. 

This year we were fortunate in having offered us a house not 
far from the city at a little place called Barren Hill. The St. 
Agnes Guild of St. Paul's Church, Chestnut Hill, were the 
donors, not only of the house, but of a considerable sum of 
money to run it. 

The house was kept open eight weeks, ten children being 
entertained each week. It was deemed best, for various rea- 
sons, that girls only should be invited. Their ages varied from 
four or five years to eighteen. 



31 

A number of boys who have usually spent a week with us 
in the country, this year were fully compensated for the failure 
to receive an invitation by the glorious eight days spent in 
Camp on the Nishiming. 

All winter the Davis Cadets talked, planned and saved for 
the Summer Camp. 

While the funds from * * Napoleon ' ' were devoted to the pur- 
chase of new uniforms, those from ** Julius Caesar,*' together 
with their club dues and personal savings, were laid aside for 
their Camp. A gift from several Bryn Mawr girls completed 
the needed sum, and July 5th, in a pouring rain, twenty-three 
cadets in full uniform, with colors flying and drums beating, 
marched to the boat which took them to Camp. There they 
lived under real military discipline, even to sentinel duty at 
night, with daily drills and plenty of time for fun. In spite of 
accidents, Dr. Ball succeeded in bringing all home alive, and 
eager to begin their plans for next year's Camp. 

Among the Colleges we are glad to believe that Swarthmore 
is taking a growing interest in our Settlement. The students 
have visited us frequently, the Guitar and Banjo Club have 
performed for us ; a party of our boys were most delightfully 
entertained at the College, with games in the meadows and 
luncheon in the gymnasium ; we were generously remembered 
at Christmas, and every Saturday, through the spring, came 
most beautiful boxes of wild flowers. 

The Bryn Mawr girls, too, remembered us at Christmas, and 
by flowers through the spring and for special occasions. 

They too had planned to entertain a party — some of the 
Cadets — ^but hearing how the boys were saving every penny 
for *' Camp Davis," they sent them instead the money they had 
collected. 

Smith and the Women's College of Baltimore also sent us 
contributions for our Christmas parties. 

While we cannot complain, we would like more of personal 
help from the Colleges near us. We realize that the students' 
lives are busy ones, that it is difficult to come to us for an even- 
ing, and go out again late at night. But we need the sort of 
help that College girls, and boys too, can give us better than 
others, and we are sure that if they would only try they would 
feel repaid for the sacrifice. 

As always, that part of our lives in the Settlement which 
takes most of our tinte and strength and sympathy, is that 
upon which we cannot report, and upon wUcb we would not 
if we could. It is easy to tell entertaining anecdotes^ to paint 
picturesque scenes, to bring teats by pathetic atoriea, bat is it 
right ? Have we any right to use our neighbofs and fiiends as 
literary material? I think not. What is jostifiable in tibe 
artist is morally wrong for ns and AmO^ ' to n%, 

All that comes to us because we ase vA 



32 

hard for many of otir friends to realize that we are not a chari- 
table organization with so many special cases to report upon. 
If they were to live with us for a month they would come to 
realize how impossible it seems to hold up to public comment 
in any way, however carefully, that which, were it to occur in 
our own lives, would hurt us to have others know. It is only 
carrying out the golden rule. If any think our report dull 
reading and ask for the spice of personal incident, if they can- 
not understand our point of view, to them we can only say^ 
** Come live with us and you will see.'* 

RESIDENTS. 

During the year of '94 and '95 we were fortunate in having^ 
residents who could remain for a considerable time. It will be^ 
seen from the list that eight out of eleven residents were with 
us six months or over. This is the best showing since the^ 
Settlement opened. We hope to be equally fortunate during 
the coming year. 

Any person remaining at the Settlement one month or over 
is called a resident ; those staying less than a month are visit- 
ors. Of these we have had between thirty and forty during^ 
the year. 

The terms for residents are $5.00 per week. For visitors, 
$1.00 per day. 




♦Katharine B. Davis 

(Head Worker.) 
♦Mary B. Lippincott 

(Assistant Head Worker.) 
Frances C.VanGasken, M.D. 

(Resident Physician.) 
Alice C. Johnson 

(Director of Kitchen and 
Coffee House.) 
Margaret Hulett 

(Kmdergartner.) 
Mary B. Heath 



Francis M. Tyler. 
Emma I. Bettes.... 



Margaret Morton 

Emily C. Upham, M. D 

Elizabeth Hamilton Jones. 



Vassar 

Non. Coll. 



Woman's Med. 
College, Phila. 
Non. Coll 



Non. Coll. 



OhioWesleyan 
& Bryn Mawr. 
Smith 



Ann Arbor. 



Vassar 

Smith 

Non. Coll. 



Date entrance. 



Oct. I, 1894... 
Oct. I, 1894... 



Oct. I, 1894... 
Nov. I, 1894.. 



Jan. I, 1895... 

f Sept. 18, '94 
I May 29, '95.. 
Oct. 15, *94... 
(Jan. 30, *95- 
I Sept. 17, '95 
Feb. 28, '95... 
July 13, »Q5... 
Aug. 27, ^95... 



Date leaving. 



To present time. 
To present time. 



To present time. 
To present time. 



To present time. 

To Feb. 20, '95. 
To July I '95. 
To Apr. 26, *95. 
To Aug. I, '95. 
To present time. 
To Apr. II, '95- 
To Sept. II, ^95. 
To present time. 



♦In residence in previous years. 



Katharine B. Davis. 



oo 



» 
GQ 






Q 



I 



s 

5 






o 

O 

(4 



h 

H 

H 
nJ 
H 
H 
H 
CO 

H 
H 
H 
Ptf 
H 
(A 

H 
(A 

» 



H 

(4 

O 

aj 

H 
fi 

13 

H 

H 

ft. 
o 

H 

P 
O 

u 
u 

< 

h 

2 



8 



lO 









888 
8»» 



o loo too 8 8 io8 

t^M O^ tONO M Q O lO 



0« 
U 



t6 



i 



4) 



S (f) o 

'jaw 
X« 

•« *t flk 

ctf cd ctf 
c4 cd Ql 

n 




O >O00 
Op r*itN.c*) 
j5\rOM w 



w'-- 






« rt O 
o « fe o ^ w 0--13 

g « <« *3 5 O-S'- ,»-i 



I 



8v8R^ 






CO 



^ 



^ 



4) rt-O 



(0 

o 

e 






t5 






•c 

u 
U 



vB'8'^ 




o 



34 









o o lo 






c 



s-s 






CI 



e 



u 

u 
o 



c 

< 

X 

o 

< 

u 
oi 
& 

(A 

«< 
u 

o 

h 

O 

u 
u 

-«1 

h 

»i« 
O 



58 












go 

<C (fl c 

wn3 



(A 



C/3 



to 
o 

CQ 






O rt u o 

S (Q 1/ ^ O 



(A 

9 



13 

S 

a 

9 
4> 



8>S 

2.0 



u 
o 

4-* 






c 

9 



C8 



as 

^ S 

C -M 



So C 



I 



9 

Q 



(R 


0^ 


a> 


u 


M 


9 


c 

0; 


i 


ao^ 








U3 

9 



ptfi 



c 

OS 

us 

c 
o 

u 

e 



n 



s 

9 
O 
U 

u 



H 

B 

9 



C 



cTjOUJ 



c4 a 



8 
I 



8 



^ 



OS 

bO 

9 

s 



t 

O 
U 

C 
9 

C 

a 

4; 

c 
E 

M 



• 55 



St^ 






c O 

>- M 

u 9 

(ft rt 

U O 

H 
en 



4^ 



13 

OS 
<D 

cn 

< 



X 

< 

< 
X 

u 



Z 
O 



< 

Q 
O 
06 



06 
< 
X 



Z 
< 
06 



£ 

«< 

s 

< 

a 

o 

< 

z 
z 

< 

X 



u 
u 

o 






a 



> 
*53d 

4> 
u 

rt 

en 

u 

u 

tn 

X> 

9 
m 



en 

<«^ 
en 



m •-; 



•J 
( 

CQ 



35 



BOSTON SETTLEMENT. 

{Denison House,) 
REPORT OF HEAD WORKER. 

A friend of settlements said recently in regard to the desire 
for definite statistics from our work, that one might as well ex- 
pect a mother to draw up a daily record like the following : 
Spoke to Charley 25 times, smiled at Charley 49 times. It 
is indeed almost as difficult to write a report of one's life 
at a Settlement as to make a record of any home life, since in- 
tercourse is with individuals and not with masses of people — 
informal, not institutional, friendly, not ''philanthropic.*' 
This is so much taken for granted by those living in Settle- 
ments that it seems strange that every one does not vmderstand 
how simple and natural our life is. The ordinary newspaper 
report of philanthropic work, with its catch-phrase ''elevating 
the masses," does not in any sense describe the Settlement 
idea. The masses are not to be saved by young women who 
go to live in a Settlement, or by any institution. Moreover, 
the question is not of "saving the masses," but of saving the 
whole world. The poor are not the only people who need to 
be "instructed and uplifted." To bring about more whole-j 
some social conditions that must be co-operative among all 
classes of society. Ignorance and prejudice prevent this co- 
operation. The Settlement is but one small effort to give the 
chance of mutual knowledge which may overcome the ignor- 
ance and break down the prejudice. 

Summary op Organized Work. 

Monday P. M., At home. (Conference once a month.) 

Current Events lectures. 
Monday evening, Art Class. 

Gymnastic Class. 

Federal Labor Union (once a month). 
Tuesday, 4-5 P. M., Library and bank. 
Tuesday, P. M., Club of girls (13-14). 
Tuesday evening, Social Science Club. 
Wednesday, 4-5.30 P. M., Busy Bees, girPs club, (Miss Chamberlain and 

Miss Drake). 
Wednesday evening, Avon Club (boys). 

Hunter's Club (older bovs), (Miss RolUn^. 
Thursday, 4-5 P. M., Club of boys. Miss Newhall. 
Thursday evening. At home. 
Friday P. M., Mother's Qub. 
Friday evening, Class in penmanship. 

Singing Class, girls. 
Dramatic Club, girls. 
Saturday A. M., Kitchen earden. 
Saturday P. M., Little chudren, games. 

Club <^ girls. 
Club of tSojrs. 



36 

The above schedule is a dissection of our Settlement engage- 
ments for the year, and here, as in all dissections, one can 
study the structure but not the life. We feel that the house 
stands more and more as a centre of informal social life in the 
neighborhood. On Thursday evening we can depend, more 
than formerly, on spontaneous efforts at conversations which 
mark a growth in the power of social expression. Although 
we have had many delightful entertainments furnished by 
various friends, still our quiet cosy evenings when we have 
simply a ** good talk *' are as pleasant as any. 

On Monday afternoon our regular **at home*' has been 
varied by a monthly conference, when we have had an oppor- 
tunity of hearing about various Settlements. These confer- 
ences were arranged with the special idea of bringing our out- 
side workers into closer touch with the various interests of the 
house. The subjects and speakers were as follows : Denison 
House, Miss Dudley ; ** What a Settlement can bring its resi- 
dents and what residents can bring to a Settlement,'' Mr. R. 
A. Woods ; Prospect Union, Rev. R. E. Ely ; Hull House, 
Mr. J. G. Brooks ; Kingsley House, Dean Hodges ; English 
Settlements, M. G. Hooker. 

Our Club Work has somewhat increased through the year as 
shown by the schedule. The number attending the clubs week 
by week is about 250. At the library the attendance has 
averaged 75 during the winter ; the books most called for 
being adventure and fairy stories. Most of the clubs are now 
in their second or third year. They are organized with ofl&cers 
and have small weekly payment of dues. Among the new 
features this year is the teaching of basket making to the boys, 
and to the girls the housewifely arts by means of the kitchen 
garden. The gymnastic class was organized last winter by an 
enthusiastic gymnast who was in residence. The class was 
composed of young working women, some of whom met a sec- 
ond evening in the week for singing and elocution. Several 
choruses and solos from modem operas with some of the old 
ballads were studied. On one Thursday evening the club gave 
a very pleasant rendering of Mr. Howell's '* Mouse Trap." 
Many of the same girls join in charades at the Settlement with 
quite a new spirit and facility. Surely it is worth some trou- 
ble to develop a power of simple amusement which can be used 
in the home, since social life in the homes is all too rare among 
the working people in America. Perhaps the pleasantest of our 
new enterprises is the Mother's meeting which has been held 
at the public Kindergarten on Hudson street in co-operation 
with the teacher, whose long familiarity with the neighborhood 
and warm personal relations with the mothers of her little pupils 
have served as a delightftil introduction for our club. We have 
had an average attendance of twenty ^ * ^'^ ^^^s besides many 
other friends. The practical talks gi n as follows : 



37 

Miss Wiltze : Relation of the Kindergarten to the Home. 

Dr. Emma Call : Home Emergencies. 

Mrs. E. H. Richards : Home Sanitation. 

Mrs. Wiggin : Kindergarten Experiences. 

Miss L. Ames : The Beautiful in our Homes. 

Miss Fisher : Talk on the Kindergarten. 

Mrs. Norton : Proper Clothing for Children. 

The lectures on current events were given mainly by the 
Wellesley professors. These lectures, as well as the Art Class, 
were attended by the teachers of the neighboring Public Schools, 
by young working women, and by the residents. The lectures 
on Italian Art were made further attractive by beautiful photo- 
graphs and Arundel prints, loaned us by the Boston Art 
Museum. 

The SociAi, Science Ci.ub, which, when started in 1893, 
consisted of a small group of students, has developed into a large 
club, with an average attendance of 40 to 50. We have drawn 
from a much wider circle than last year, and have had at our 
meetings a number of young business and professional men 
as well as more working men and students of the industrial 
problem. The subjects discussed were : 

1. What the various factors of society contribute to its well- 
being. 

2. Restriction of Immigration. 

3. Ethics of Trades Unions. 

4. English Socialism. 

5. German Socialism. 

6. The Contract System. 

7. English Municipal Life. 

8. English and American Labor Movement. 

The Federai, Labor Union, 5915, has held monthly meet- 
ings at Denison House. This is a Union composed of professional 
and working people, who '* endeavor to secure among all classes 
a better understanding of the labor movement, and use all 
efforts toward the peaceful settlement of labor disputes.*' The 
Union meets at Denison House, but is not ofl&cially a part of 
its work, except as certain residents attend the meetings and 
work in the Union individually. 

In September, 1894, the garment workers of Boston struck 
for a nine-hour day and a better scale of wages. The contracts 
were being signed by the employers without any provision for 
the women. A committee from the F. L. U. called the women 
together and reorganized them, forming a Union, which has 
steadily increased in numbers during the year. There are now 
over 800 members. It has held regular weekly meetings near 
Denison House, and shows a steady gain in methods of con- 
ducting business, and an increasingiaterest in union principles. 
Denison House has kept in dose ♦««*^^ ^ Union during 
the year. One of the hottsdhold -^ 



38 

all the residents have been interested. The strength of the 
Union is constantly demonstrated by the respect paid to its 
complaints in the shops in which the women work, and its 
value was still further shown in August, 1895, when the con- 
tracts between employers and workmen were signed for the 
coming year. The women were then in a position to state 
their own terms, while the year before they had not been con- 
sidered at all in the contracts. While this Union has by no 
means overcome the many difl&culties in the organization of 
women, we do feel that a decided gain has been made during 
the year. In belonging to a Union each member learns to be 
more concerned with the condition of his fellow- workers. This 
growth in altruism, the training in self-expression, and the 
information gained from frequent short addresses by outsiders, 
must not be lightly underestimated, since through such means 
as these a social conscience is aroused. 

The Federal Labor Union, beside its interest in the Garment 
Makers' Union, has taken a less active part in other industrial 
matters in connection with the shoe workers at Haverhill and 
the rubber workers at Hyde Park. In neither of these strug- 
gles did the committee from the Federal Labor Union presume 
to judge the condition of the market nor the right or wrong of 
the cut-down. It stood simply for the principle of conciliation 
and arbitration. To end a strike by starving out the workmen 
leaves behind a harvest of bitterness and suppressed hatred that 
no one can well estimate. Should the employer be in the 
right, he should be more than willing to convince his working 
people of the yz^^/Zr^ of his position. Through oui- interest in 
these painful matters a much closer knowledge of the conditions 
of work in factories has been gained, and in some cases we have 
formed a highly prized friendship with individual workers. A 
committee from the F. L. U. has been appointed to work with 
the Educational Committee of the Central Labor Union in 
raising a library for its members. Suitable books in economics 
and history would be most welcome. 

From the stimulating, but anxious work, which centres in 
industrial questions, with all their uncertainties and pit-falls, it 
is a relief to turn to the more genial and obvious activities 
which characterize a Summer Setti^embnt. There is no part 
of the year more enjoyable at Denison House than the summer 
months. Certain of the more definite enterprises lapse ; clubs 
and classes are for the most part suspended. Their place is 
taken by a freer hospitality and the more general sociability 
which the warm weather seems to bring with it. To share as 
much as we can of summer and the country with our district 
is of course our aim ; nothing helps more in this than the kind- 
liness of friends who keep us bountifully supplied with beauti- 
ful Bowers, till few country dwellers li^ 'nded by such a 

wealth of blossom as we. Our liou* ' =*t station of 



hp thi 



.19 

le Mutual Helpers, and we also receive flowers from many 
other sources. Often we distribute a hundred bouquets in the 
day, and this not by wholesale, but always to or through our 
personal friends, so that the touch of friendship is added to the 
gift of beauty. Fruit and vegetables also fall to our share and 
are most welcome. We have no vacation home, but through 
the Country Week, the Princeton Vacation House and a farm 
owned by a member of our committee we are able to send away 
large numbers of children, and when they are able to get away, 
the girls and women for a week or more of green fields. Num- 
bers of all day picnics give great pleasure. We try to have 
these small enough to have the personal touch and as far as 
possible whole families go together. 

All this is the bright side of a Settlement summer. There 
is another side. No one can live with a wage-earning popu- 
lation and fail to feel the terrible wear on nerves and health of 
its uninterrupted labor. Illness and nervous exhaustion are all 
around us, especially among the girls and women. The num- 
ber we can reach is very small in proportion to all ; tickets for 
electric car rides, all day picnic and even the country week are 
pitifully inadequate to relieve so intense fatigue. The weari- 
ness of wage-earners is fully as great as can be found among 
the well nourished professional classes, who are coming to feel, 
a protracted holiday essential. j 

The following account of the Vacation Schooi. was wid 
ten by Miss Helen Cheever, one of the committee in charge : ^ 

Tyler Street Vacation School, July S-Aug. i6, 'p5- — In co- 
operation with the Ward XII Conference of Associated Chari- 
ties and by means of money raised by them, the Deuison House 
planned and carried on this summer the Tyler Street Vacation 
School (held by permission of the school committee in a public 
school building) to which boysand girls of the district, between 
the ages of three and fourteen, were admitted. 

Our aims were to give the pupils happiness and instruction 
in a clear and beautiftil place, where they might learn not only 
industrial work, but something of the wonder and beauty of 
the summer world, of which these city children see so little. 

The school-house, by the aid of our neighbors, was w< 
scrubbed, theblack-boards were hung with burlap insoftcoli 
the rooms were decorated with photographs and water coh 
as well as with casts, potted plants and fresh flowers. 

The library room, in especial, was an attractive place. This 
was kept supplied, through the kindness of the public library 
trustees and superintendent, with interesting books, and the 
children who were at leisure, as well as tliose for whom the 
was not room in the classes, gathered here to read and enjt 
the stories, talks, music and other amusements provit* 
through the well laid plans of our superintendent "" 

.tendent was assisted by uine paid teaciveia 




40 

teers, and of the 250 pupils who staid over one week, 1 1 r 
remained between four and six weeks and 143 between three 
and six weeks. The average daily attendance throughout 
the six weeks was 137. For voluntary attendance during 
vacation, interrupted for some of the children by the country 
week, this was a good showing. Besides the excellent Kinder- 
garten department, there were classes in sewing, carpentering, 
nature studies, designing and the drawing and coloring of 
flowers. The sewing and carpentering, occupying one-half the 
time of the regular pupils, were excellently taught ; the classes 
were usually well-filled, fifty-five girls in a total of ninety-four 
and fifty-seven boys in a total of one hundred and eight showed 
undiminished interest throughout the courses. Regular pupils 
also spent one-eighth of their time in nature studies, and the 
remaining fourth in the drawing department. 

The nature room was almost daily supplied with flowers and 
specimens of plant and animal life for study, and twice a week 
the class then in session was taken on an excursion to the 
natural history rooms, or to the country or seaside. From 
the sea they sometimes returned with specimens for the next 
day's work. It is believed that this sort of nature teaching, 
with instructive excursions has not developed in American 
public schools to any extent, and it is hoped that this plan 
may be continued and improved in the school another year. 

The results obtained in the drawing department, where 
many of the children handled colors for the first time, were 
both interesting and helpful. Many good and original designs 
and drawings or water-colors of flowers were completed, and 
even where work was less good, the endeavor to copy a real 
flower or leaf may have helped develop a sense of beauty. 

The school cost approximately five hundred dollars. We 
are indebted for the good results to the help of various friends 
who sent specimens and flowers, lent pictures and other articles, 
provided picnics or gave personal service. As our superinten- 
dent says, life is not statistical ; and life is what the Settlement 
and its friends put into the school. This vital quality, with 
the experience gained from recognition of mistakes, will insure, 
we hope, still better work another year. 

Besides co-operating with the associated charities in the Va- 
cation School we have had many other occasions to work witk 
them. A resident has attended the conference both of the 
Twelfth and the Sixteenth Wards to give and gain information, 
of those families in whom we are mutually interested. This 
may be a suitable occasion to speak of the fact that much of our 
effort is in the line of bringing those who need help into touch 
with the means of relief provided by public or private charity. 
We meet generally a hearty co-operation from the institutions 
appealed to in various emergencies. We are specially indebted 
to the Women's Educational and Ind^ ' ' '^^niotif to the 



Country Week Committee of the Young Men's Christian 
Union, the Children's Aid Society, to the Princeton and New 
Ipswich Vacation Homes, to the Gwynn Home and the Tyler 
Street Day Nursery. The use of the Old Colony Chapel has 
also been given us for classes. Equally acceptable in a differ- 
ent line has been the co-operation of the Wells Memorial Insti- 
tute in the use of its rooms and in other \ways. The Boston 
Library has loaned us sets of books aud the Art Museum has 
given us the use of valuable photographs. 

At the request of the committee from the Association of Colle- 
giate Alnmnse, one of our Committee with the aid of one of the 
Massachu.setts Factory Inspectors made a careful inspection of 
the sanitary condition of a Grammar School near us. The 
committee hopes to increase public interest in our schools by 
the facts gained by such volunteer inspection. 

I,ast spring the Andover House and the Denison House 
tmited with other citizens in arranging for the second of the 
*Soutk End Free Art Exhibits, of which the first was held Feb- 
ruary, 1893. 

The exhibit was rich in fine pictures, rewarding even a short 
stay. How much more must they have brought, however, 
to certain little children who made daily visits ! One little 
one accompanied a Settlement friend entirely around the hall, 
with her back to the pictures, naming and describing each 
picture from memory. We often wished the artists might hear 
the comments of certain spectators ; the machinist's pleasure 
in a great engine, and his distress at certain inaccuracies in its 
machinery ; the fisherman's joy in a lusty oarsman, rowing his 
dory over the rough seas, through the fog, to find the mist- 
hidden schooner. But here again memory's pictures showed a 
lack — " Painted just as if he were a lobsterman," we heard him 
grumble ; " who ever see a true deep-sea fisherman row stand- 
ing up." 

'^T/ie South End Musical Union, to the Executive Committee 
of which we contributed a member, gave ten free Sunday after- 
noon concerts, beginning in February, at each of which an 
audience of five hundred, of whom two-thirds were men and 
workingmen, listened to good music, rendered by musicians of 
repute, who gladly gave their services. Our music lovers often 
surprised a singer by applauding in the middle of a stanza, but 
this prompt expression ceased as time went on. One of the 
most interesting moments was the silence, and then the deter- 
mined encore which followed the playing of Handel's Largo by 
ten viohns in unison. This was at the end of a long concert ; 
but as the ten young women again raised their bows to begin 
Dot a single person rose to leave the hall. One bright young 
woman marshaled her class of boys here every Sunday after 
the close of the Cathohc Sunday-school. "Ah !" she said to 

.-ouui df tliE An Exhibit and MuskcaV Umwivni- ^~^^^^^H 



42 

me, ** I never have had anything like this. Now, I go singing 
through the week/' 

We are glad to tell our friends of our happy prospects for 
next year. Our work is constantly enlarging, and we hope 
this winter to develop, in a tentative way, in the line of College 
extension. Classes are already started or planned in literature, 
art, travel, American history, trades unions and other subjects. 
Most of these classes will be taught by College graduates, and 
we hope to develop among the wage earners who attend them 
a sense of corporate loyalty to the house and enthusiasm for 
study. In view of this and many other developments, we find 
our present cramped quarters quite inadequate. A member of 
the Committee has bought the house we now occupy, and the 
adjoining house. The two houses are to be thrown together,, 
and will give us one large room for social gatherings and lec- 
tures, additional class-rooms, a residents' sitting-room, and five 
extra bedrooms. The rent of the two houses will, with the six 
per cent, which contents our new landlord, be only $100.00 more 
than we have been paying for one house, and two per cent, will 
pass to our credit towards future ownership of the houses, 
thereby reducing our rent year by year. We expect to occupy 
the new house within a year. This enlargement is a venture 
of faith on our part, for we must secure pledges for $1,050 rent, 
and must also raise at once $4,000 for repairs and furnishing. 
For this sum we rely on the generosity of our fiiends and their 
conviction of what Denison House may be to the community. 

Wc make the following extract from a leaflet giving informa- 
tion to candidates for residence : 

** It is desirable, for the sake of continuity in the work, that 
candidates should, whenever possible, plan to remain in the 
Settlement at least one season. All are welcome, «ven those 
who can stay only two or three months, and those who can give 
time in the summer are particularly valued ; but it is obvious, 
that the short term of residence is as inadequate here as it 
would be elsewhere to establish lasting and helpfiil friendships 
or even to gain thorough insight into neighborhood conditions. 
As a Settlement grows older, the need of those who shall be 
permanently associated with it in the minds of the neighbors 
becomes more and more imperative. Much stimulus and some 
wisdom, on the other hand, may be acquired by the resident in 
a short time, but her gain and usefulness both increase in geo- 
metrical ratio as she remains. The life offered by the settle- 
ment is worthy of continuous devotion ; it is the aim of all 
concerned to render it so moderate, natural, and serene that it 
will involve no serious strain on health. Residents are encour- 
aged to take frequent short changes, as, for instance, spending 
Sunday away. It should be understood that the invitation to 
residence is not confined to College women. It is earnestly 
iioped that the majority of residen -'sh to avail them- 



43 

selves of the opportunities for study offered by Denison House, 
and will give at least one hour a day to sociological readings. 
The house has a good small library. Courses of reading will 
be arranged and directed for each resident, when desired.*' 

Since January, 1895, our house has been full ; several of the 
residents have spent the entire year. We give a list of resi- 
dents and visitors for the year. 



RESIDENTS (Three months and over). 



Miss H. S. Dudley 

Mrs. L. H. Putnam 

Miss Helen Drake 

Miss Helen Sanford... 
Miss K. D. Johnson.... 

Miss M. L. Dewing 

Miss Julia Drury 

Miss Martha Lathe 

*Miss Mary Rollins 

*Miss V. D. Scudder.. 
*Miss Nina E. Brown. 



College. 



Bryn Mawr. 



Wellesley. 
Smith 



Smith.. 
Vassar. 
Smith.. 
Smith.. 



Date entrance. 



Sept. 1893.... 

Jan., 1895 

Nov., 1894... 
Nov., 1894... 
Sept., 1894... 
f Oct., 1894.. 
I Aug., 1895.. 

Jan., 1895 

Feb., 1895.... 

Jan., 1895 

May, 1895.... 
Aug. I, 1895. 



Date leaving. 



To present time. 
To present time. 
October, 1895. 
October, 1895. 
March, 1895. 
f December, 1894. 
J To present time. 
June, 1895. 
May, 1895. 
October, 1895. 
August, 1895. 
To present time. 



♦In residence in former years. 

VISITORS (from one to three months). 

*Miss Helen Cheever. 

Miss Eva Channing, Boston University. 

Miss Amelia Shapleigh, Cornell. 

*Miss Cora Stewart, Wellesley. 

Miss M. K. Conyngton, Wellesley. 

Miss Edith Fabens. 

Mrs. Arthur Clifford. 

Miss Susan Huntington, Wellesley. 

Miss Charlotte Parker. 

Miss Florence Converse, Wellesley. 

Miss Lavinia Smith, Wellesley. 

Miss Juliette Wall, Wellesley. 

Miss Lalla Harris, Radcliffe. 

Miss Ellen Garrigues, U. of Michigan. 

Miss Mary Very. 

*In residence in former years, 

VISITORS (one to foxir weeks). 



Miss Andrews, Vassar. 

Miss Baxter, Wellesley. 

Miss Bornland. 

Miss Boynton. 

Miss Burnam. 

Miss Cheeney, Wellesley. 

Miss Fiske, Wellesley. 

Miss Sylvia Harris. 

Miss Harrison. 

Miss Holmes. 

Miss Landerburn, Wellesley. 

Miss Jeannette Liggett. 

Miss M. Mason, Wellesley. 

Miss Emily Morgan. 

Miss McKune. 

Miss Orr. 



Miss Ovington. 

Miss Jean Parker. 

Miss Mary Parker. 

Miss Sawyer. 

Miss Z. D. Smith. 

Miss Skinker. 

Miss Skinner. 

Miss Stebbins. 

Frl. StUren. 

Miss Swift, Wellesley. 

Miss Townsend. Vassar. 

Miss Jessica Tyler. 

*Miss Caroline L. Williamson, Welles- 

ley 
♦Miss Ada Woolfolk. W-»l 
Miss S. Yetxa^ BAddO! 



i. 



*In residence before. 



Hiea3?Riik 



44 



^ 
S^ 



oi 
n 

H 

ou 

U 

o 

iz: 

Q 
iz: 

S 

06 
O 
b 

h 

iz: 
U 

H 



cn 
a. 









u 
0) 

a 
a; 

0) 

o 

C 



(A 

u 

a 



m w 



^ y CM 

•— «^ C is rt 

rt O C 3 »^ 

n 



^P 



0) 

bfl 
♦J 

'O o c 
a (-> P 

C hrt 

C c cQ 
i-i p o 



55 



a 
a> 

(/) 

73 

C 
e« 

JC 

G 
O 

4> 
U 

a 

08 






O 

u 

C 

73 

C 



u 

o 
u 
O 



en 

•J 
n 



> 
u 
Z 

u 
S 



•5 c 



B 

a 

H 



^S^888^ 



m 






H 



Z 
o 

Pi 

o 
Pd 



U 



i 



G 
i-T C! 

ai; a 
c/3 2 Of 



c 

♦3 

u 

a 
o 

a 
a 

(A 

cd 
^^ 

g £ G 



a^ o 

u C Ji 
tf) ^73 




45 



to 

o 

00 



0^ 
PQ 



h 
H 

o 
u 

z 

^ h 
CQ c/3 

O 

Q 



o 
u 

o 
u 

z 
o 

H 

CO 

O 



2 S 



P 



o 




o 


u 


o 


< 


<*1 


z 


Q 


»N 


H? 


u 


O 


CO 

p 


n 


o 


» 


X 


QQ 




D 


z 


o 


o 

CO 



Q 



«/5«OvO 

c< a> — 


o »oo 


8 


\0 »*5 W 


« ON 


K 

Tf 


^ 




i^ 



X 



0) 

C 

.S2S 



(A 

a 

u 



in'O 
G 



rt.2 i-- 



Im ^ ? S3 ^ V 

CQ 



> 
o 

a 
a 
< 



00 txt^O 



<I»NOOO 



ON 



8 



en 
a. 



^1 



& 

a; 

cn 

e8 G 

JG G 

gS 

O <j 

•aS 

o 



en 
a) 
H 

V G 

G u 

5.5 

o s 

S.2 

k- ts 
e8 o 



w 2 
'z % 

O TJ 
0^ O 

> t 

■*•» 
ctf 

l-l 
rt 

a 
a) 

« 

■*•» 

G 
O 

c 

bfl 
4> 

a 

<n 

u 

£ 

o 
en 

JQ 

3 

(0 

en 

♦J 
en 

I 

n 



