FEBRUARY 1981 Vol. 6, No. 2 
$2.50 in USA/$2.95 in Canada 

A McGraw-Hill Publication 




i »3a 3 J ■ = 33f ;- - ; ff ;.- . : a - 2 33 .M - :- : ■ llZl z 3413*33 2.32*3 33 31^5 si 2a = 23 3^3333 33333333333 VEj 

r t s s ss r 3 5 1 : - H? -51:11 rr-r-rrf-; 5f j|j f f i JSJ Jt?51bV. It ■■■-'-.- i * i i 5 =:-.-. i = ■:*-•. 5 n <3 5 *v T- c , 5 7^ *i 1 1 . 
/ s £ S6 z C 6 i $ /b" St 6 8€ 6 6 S 66*! Sis £S#5£g £ £S i It t S3 & 5H = a* * - 1> bl'ivlt • i t^fefctC-s, t> i. fe^a r ofc t Vfa * T »61ctt '. f .htt t 

» 7 # 7 - 7 7 » t 7 ?777":n; 7 ; 7 7 " 7 7 7 - ; ; / 7 f ;■ - , 7j , ; - i J 7 ; | 7 > 7 : % t 7 n 7 ■; '• 7 - > 7 1 1 1 " T; 7 7 1 1 7 1 "i T 7 "i 7 1 "I f "1 "i ". T 1 V 
# <? S i ? <#* * « ' 8 - ? f? 91 * 9g 1 frfilYZ? ? l#$? %.%%1l '* * t$ '■ ■? 9l%%'H M'" V "'• ?■ 1 ''■ ; WM 1 1s ■>. * > r ". ■"■ ^ 7 '"' 5 . "■>> Vfc *\ r 5 % V*. "7- * *S ft 
$ 2 ,?5 fSS JSi 5 3 81 M3S35 ? ° SS.^SS £ISS;."c- 9 10 St 0Q 9'6'f J &94B?%^ *<> . ^'-'-sSfinn^,^ ; i^nss^lti'5^ 



■£*&!! V" M»A 



R AflU YUIIE 




yifM'gtigf 



YOUR CHOICE-smart either way 

• Over 140 software driven functions 

• 82 x 24 or 82 x 20 screen format — software selectable 

• High resolution 7x12 matrix characters — P-31 green phosphor 

• Upper/lower case character set — plus graphics character set 

• 56-key alphanumeric keyboard — plus 12-key cursor, numeric pad 

• Internal editing functions — insert, delete, scroll, roll, slide, etc. 

• Parallel printer I/O port 

• 50 to 38,400 baud operation — programmable 

• Cursor type, cursor position, print control characters, protected fields, 
shift inversion, dual intensity and many other features 



821 2 — twelve-inch diagnonal screen or 8209 — nine-inch diagnonal screen 



. 




SOUTHWEST TECHNICAL PRODUCTS CORPORATION 

219 W. RHAPSODY 

SAN ANTONIO, TEXAS 78216 (512) 344-0241 



Circle 324 on inquiry card. 



Gromemco accepts 
your challenge, 

Data General 






Yes, Data General, we saw your 
ad. 

So we realize you hope to win 
over some of our computer 
business. 

And we can see you have reason 
to be pleased about your line of 
minicomputers. They are MINIs 
though. 



But Cromemco produces state- 
of-the-art MICROcomputers. 

Powerful ones. 

And our micros have some 
outstanding advantages. 

For example, Cromemco is the 
only microcomputer manufacturer 
to support a broad range of 
microcomputers with (a) 5-inch 



WE'RE BUSTING 
THE COMPETITION'S 

BOARDS AGAIN. 



Announcing MBC/2 and MBC/3, 
the newest members of Data . 
General's growing family of 
microNOVA" board computers. 
They're the best computers on a 
board money can buy. You get u p 
to 64K bytes of memory, serial 
and parallel I/O lines, and soft- 
ware support from MP/OS, 
our famous micro operating 
system. You even get. supporting 
languages like MP/PASCAL and 
MP/FORTRAN IV.Seeforyoursell. 




• !*■< 5 S.<<^ 



The competition will always 
sing the praises of their little single 
board computer . But from now 
on they'll be doing it falsetto. 



cn 



!'^0iSS^' 






double-sided, double-density floppy 
disk drives and with (b) 8-inch 
double-sided, double-density floppy 
disk drives AS WELL AS (c) 8-inch 
Winchester hard disk drives. 

That means, of course, that our 
customers have a wide choice of 
disk storage capability. 

UNEQUALLED 
SOFTWARE SUPPORT 

OK. That was one point. 

Here's another: our stunning 
selection of software support. 
Cromemco is the only micro 
manufacturer to produce both 
single-user and multi-user multi- 
tasking computers with software 
like this: 



SYSTEM SOFTWARE 

CDOS (a CP/M-like operating 

system) 

CROMIX (a UNIX-like operating 

system) 

RPG-II (IBM-compatible) 

COBOL 

BASIC 

FORTRAN IV 

RATFOR 

LISP 

C 

Macro Assembler 

APPLICATION SOFTWARE 

Word Processing System 
Data-Base Management 
General Ledger 
Accounts Receivable 
Accounts Payable 
Inventory 

All of this is available now with 
more coming all the time. 

So there you are, D.G. 

You can see why we know our 
microcomputers will stand the test. 

Cromemco eagerly accepts the 
challenge. 



Cromemco 

incorporated 

Tomorrow's Computers Today 

280 BERNARDO AVE. MOUNTAIN VIEW.CA 94043 
(415) 964-7400 • TWX 910-379-6988 



Circle 1 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 




Management Information Display 



Ultrasonic heart sector scan 



High-resolution display with alphanumerics 



Get the professional color 

display that has 
BASIC/FORTRAN simplicity 






LOW-PRICED, TOO 

Here's a color display that has 
everything: professional-level resolution, 
enormous color range, easy software, 
NTSC conformance, and low price. 

Basically, this new Cromemco Model 
SDI* is a two-board interface that plugs 
into any Cromemco computer. 

The SDI then maps computer display 
memory content onto a convenient color 
monitor to give high-quality, high- 
resolution displays (756 H x 482 V pixels). 

When we say the SDI results in a high- 
quality professional display, we mean you 
can't get higher resolution than this 
system offers in an NTSC-conforming 
display. 

The resolution surpasses that of a color 
TV picture. 

BASIC/FORTRAN programming 

Besides its high resolution and low 
price, the new SDI lets you control with 
optional Cromemco software packages 
that use simple BASIC- and FORTRAN- 
like commands. 

Pick any of 16 colors (from a 
4096-color palette) with instructions like 
DEFCLR (c, R, C, B). Or obtain a circle of 
specified size, location, and color with 
XCIRC (x, y, r, c). 



•U.S. Pat. No. 4121283 




Model SDI High-Resolution Color 
Graphics Interface 



HIGH RESOLUTION 

The SDI's high resolution gives a 
professional-quality display that strictly 
meets NTSC requirements. You get 756 
pixels on every visible line of the NTSC 
standard display of 482 image lines. Ver- 
tical line spacing is 1 pixel. 

To achieve the high-quality display, a 
separate output signal is produced for 
each of the three component colors (red, 
green, blue). This yields a sharper image 
than is possible using an NTSC-composite 
video signal and color TV set. Full image 
quality is readily realized with our high- 
quality RGB Monitor or any conventional 
red/green/blue monitor common in TV 
work. 




Model SDI plugs into Z-2H 11-megabyte 

hard disk computer or any Cromemco 

computer 

DISPLAY MEMORY 

Along with the SDI we also offer an 
optional fast and novel two-port memory 
that gives independent high-speed access 
to the computer memory. The two-port 
memory stores one full display, permit- 
ting fast computer operation even during 
display. 

CONTACT YOUR REP NOW 

The Model SDI has been used in scien- 
tific work, engineering, business, TV, 
color graphics, and other areas. It's a 
good example of how Cromemco keeps 
computers in the field up to date, since it 
turns any Cromemco computer into an 
up-to-date color display computer. 

The SDI has still more features that 
you should be informed about. So contact 
your Cromemco representative now and 
see all that the SDI will do for you. 



Circle 1 on inquiry card. 



Q 



Cromemco 

incorporated 

280 BERNARDO AVE., MOUNTAIN VIEW, CA 94043 • (415) 964-7400 

Tomorrow's computers today 



In The Queue 



Volume 6, Number 2 



February 1981 



Features 

36 An Extremely Low-Cost Computer Voice 
Response System by James C Anderson / infinite clip- 
ping produces acceptable computer speech. 

44 A Computer-Controlled Tank by Steve 

Garcia / A wireless remote-control link to a personal com- 
puter enhances Milton-Bradley's Big Trak. 

68 A Beginner's Guide to Spectral Analysis, 
Part T by Mark Zimmermann / A nonmathematical treat- 
ment of Fourier transforms. 

106 A Pascal Library Unit for the Mlcromodem 

II by Thomas H Woteki / Pascal routines which allow the 
Apple to perform mass-transfer and processing of files via the 
Micromodem II. 

142 Dynamic Memory: Making an Intelligent 

Decision by Larry Malakoff / Dynamic memory boards 
can have one-sixth the power and half the space of static 
types, but these advantages are useless if the board doesn't 
work. 

152 Stacking Strings In FORTH by John 

Cassady / A set of "words" for the FORTH vocabulary adds 
string-handling capabilities to the language. 

1 64 Articulate Automata by Kathryn Fons and 

Tim Gargagliano I A look at the physiology of speech and 
at how the electronic equivalent of the human vocal tract (the 
voice synthesizer) is programmed. 

220 Image Processing With a Printer by Clark A 

Calkins / With this simple system a little hardware goes a 
long way in processing and printing images. 

312 A/D and D/A Conversion — An Inexpensive 
Approach by Roger W Mikel / This fast converter 
requires a minimum of parts and supplies 8 bits of resolution 
over a 5 V range. 



318 Turn Your COSMAC VIP into a Frequency 
Counter by Andrew Modla / Display frequencies in the 
range of I to 1 1 ,004 Hz on your COSMAC computer. 

326 A Heating and Cooling Management 
System by Tom Hall / How to build a remote temperature 
sensor. 

332 Modifying the SwTPC Computer by Thomas 
J Weaver / Modifying the SwTPC 6800 computer to accept 
either the 6800 or 6809 processor board. 

Reviews 

30 Radio Shack's Daisy Wheel Printer II 
by Yvon Kolya 

96 Infinite BASIC and Infinite Business 
by Scott Mitchell 

202 IRV, a TRS-80 Utility Program by Teri Li 
253 The Heath H-I4 Printer by Bradford Rehm 
262 Zork, The Great Underground Empire 
by Bob Liddil 

Nucleus 

6 Editorial: Computer Speech: An Update 

1 6 Letters 

92, 266, 271, 325 Programming Quickies 

94, 102, 290, 309 BYTE'S Bits 

138, 188, 196, Technical Forum: Recording with Current: 

Nonlinearities in Illumination: Build a Null Modem 

212 BYTELINES 

274 Education Forum: Microcomputers in the Chemistry 

Lab 

280 Ask BYTE 

288 System Notes 

289 Software Received 
292 Books Received 

294 Clubs and Newsletters 

298 Event Queue 

304 Book Reviews 

324 Cartoon 

336 What's New? 

382 Unclassified Ads 

383 BOMB, BOMB Results 

384 Reader Service 



BYTE 






11 




■ill i 


: ' : : I 


jlllf ji 


■ 


=;:•:■ — ■ ■ :':■! : 




jjjfjjj 


il 


< 


■.-";:::: 




■ 




/■■■'•'y. 


hiiiii 




- = _ E : 


iii 


iii|ji! 


■ 


fill : 


"-= 


||||f il 




>: ' :!. rMrw : l 






■ 








Will! 


lillll! 




I lilml 


= ;" 




If Ii|lf 11 






; :;-...--. 


; '. : 


::-.-. .- .- 


iliiilill 

:..-■ 

Iliiilill 

■ 
- - 


Ill 

iiilHI 


1 


lifeii 


1 \ : 



Page 30 



Page 44 



Page 164 



Page 220 



February 19S1 © BYTE Publications Inc 3 



M 



Editor in Chief 
Christopher Morgan 

Technical Editors 

Richard S Shuford; Gregg Williams: 

Curtis P Feigel; Harold Nelson; 

Stan Miastkowski; Kevin Cohan; Bruce Roberts; 

Charles Freiberg, New Products; Steve Ciarcia, 

Mark Dahmke, Consulting Editors 

Copy Editors 

Richard Friedman. Chief; Faith Hanson; 
Warren Williamson; Robin M Moss; 
Anthony J Lockwood 

Assistants 



Faith Ferry; Debe Wheeler; 
Karen A Cilley; Jon Swanson 



Production 

Nancy Estle. Director; Christine Dixon, 
Asst Director; Wai Chiu Li; 
Holly Carmen LaBossiere; Deborah Porter; 
Sherry McCarthy. Chief Typographer; 
Debi Fredericks; Donna Sweeney; 
Valerie Horn 

Advertising 

Thomas Harvey. Director; Ruth M Walsh; 
Marion Gagnon; Barbara J Greene; 
Rob Hannings 

Circulation 

Gregory Spitzfaden, Manager; 
Andrew Jackson. Asst Manager; 
Agnes E Perry; Barbara Varnum; 
Louise Menegus; Melanie Bertoni. 
Dealer Sales 

Marketing 

Jill E Callihan, Special Projects; 
Laura Hanson 



Controllers Office 

Daniel Rodrigues, Controller; Mary E Fluhr, 
Asst Controller; Karen Burgess: Jeanne Cilley 

Traffic 

Mark Sandagata; N Scott Gagnon 

Receptionist 

Jacqueline Earnshaw 

Publishers 



Virginia Londoner; Gordon R Williamson; 
John E Hayes, Associate Publisher: 
Cheryl A Hurd. Publisher's Assistant 



Officers of McGraw-Hill Publications Com- 
pany: Paul F McPherson, President: Executive 
Vice Presidents: James E Boddorf, Gene W 
Simpson; Group Vice President: Daniel A 
McMillan: Senior Vice President-Editorial: Ralph 
R Schulz; Vice Presidents: Kemp Anderson, 
Business Systems Development; Stephen C 
Croft, Manufacturing; Robert B Doll, Circulation; 
James E Hackett, Controller; William H Ham- 
mond, Communications: Eric B Herr, Planning 
and Development; John W Patten, Sales; 
Edward E Schirmer, International. 

Officers of the Corporation. Harold W 
McGraw Jr. President, Chief Executive Officer 
and Chairman of the Board: Robert F Landes, 
Senior Vice President and Secretary: Ralph J 
Webb, Treasurer. 




In This Issue 

This month we talk about voices — computer voices, that is — and several 
other topics as well. 

Consulting Editor Mark Dahmke speaks out on speech in the editorial 
"Computer Speech: An Update." We also have two theme articles: "An 
Extremely Low-Cost Computer Voice Response System," which shows how 
to computerize your vox humana for very little money, and "Articulate 
Automata," which looks at the physiology of speech. 

Also in this issue is Steve Ciarcia's do-it-yourself computerized Big Trak; 
everything you've always wanted to know about dynamic memory; inexpen- 
sive A/D and D/A conversion; and much more, including reviews of the new 
Radio Shack Daisy Wheel Printer II, the Heath H-14 printer, not to mention 
Zork and IRV. 



BYTE is published monthly by BYTE Publications Inc. 70 Main St, Peterborough NH 03458. a wholly-owned 
subsidiary of McGraw-Hill. Inc. Address all mail except subscriptions to above address: phone |603) 924-928 1 . Ad- 
dress subscriptions, change of address, USPS Form 3579. and fulfillment questions to BYTE Subscriptions. POB 
590. Martinsville NJ 08836. Controlled circulation postage paid at Waseca. Minnesota 56093 - USPS Publication 
No. 528890 (ISSN 0360-5281). Canadian second class registration number 9321 . Subscriptions are S 19 for one 
year, S34 for two years, and S49 for three years in the USA and its possessions. In Canada and Mexico, S2I for 
one year, S38 for two years, S55 for three years. S43 for one year air delivery to Europe. S35 surface delivery 
elsewhere. Air delivery to selected areas at additional rates upon request. Single copy price is S2.50 in the USA 
and its possessions. S2.95 in Canada and Mexico, S4.00 in Europe, and 54 50 elsewhere. Foreign subscriptions 
and sales should be remitted in United States funds drawn on a US bank. Printed in United States of America. 

Address all editorial correspondence to the editor at BYTE. POB 372, Hancock NH 03449. Unacceptable 
manuscripts will be returned if accompanied by sufficient first class postage. Not responsible for lost manuscripts or 
photos. Opinions expressed by the authors are not necessarily those of BYTE. Entire contents copyright ©I 981 by 
BYTE Publications Inc. All rights reserved. Where necessary, permission is granted by the copyright owner for 
libraries and others registered with the Copyright Clearance Center |CCC) to photocopy any article herein for the 
base fee of S 1 .00 per copy of the article or item plus 25 cents per page. Payment should be sent directly to the 
CCC, 21 Congress St, Salem MA 01970. Copying done for other than personal or internal reference use without 
the permission of McGraw-Hill is prohibited. Requests for special permission or bulk orders should be addressed to 
the publisher. 

BYTE® is available in microform from University Microfilms International, 300 N Zeeb Rd, Dept PR. Ann 
Arbor Ml 48106 USA or 18 Bedford Row. Dept PR. London WCIR 4EJ England. 

Subscription WATS Line: (800) 258-5485 
Office hours: Mon-Thur 8:30 AM - 4:30 PM, Friday 8:30 AM - Noon, Eastern Time 



NATIONAL ADVERTISING SALES REPRESENTATIVES: 


NORTHEAST [61 7| 444-3946 


MIDWEST (312) 864-3467 


MID ATLANTIC (212) 682-5844 


Hajar Associates 


Hajar Associates 


Hajar Associates 


280 Hillside Ave 


2405 Lawndale 


521 Fifth Ave 


Needham Heights MA 02194 


Evanston IL 60201 


New York NY 10017 


NORTHWEST |4I5| 964-0706 


SOUTHWEST (714) 540-3554 


SOUTHEAST (305) 886-7210 


Hajar Associates 


Hajar Associates 


Hajar Associates 


1000 ElwellCt. Suite 227 


3303 Harbor Blvd 


1220 Prairie Lane 


Palo Alto CA 94303 


Suite K-4 

Costa Mesa CA 92626 


Apopka FL 32703 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 





■ COLOR 
GRAPHICS 
■ IT'S HERE 




8455-D Tyco Road 

Vienna, Virginia 22180 

(703) 827-0888 

TWX: 710-831-9087 

OEM/Dealer inquiries invited 



Circle 2 on inquiry card. 



Circle 3 on inquiry card. 



UCSD 

PASCAL 
FORTRAN 



Portable 

Develop on a Z-flOt, 
runonLSI-11%, T.I. 990, 
6800 or vice versa 

Efficient 

Structured, readable 
Speeds development X5 
Easy maintenance 

Powerful 

Full standard Pascal 

plus extensions 

ANSI '77 Fortran Subset 

Cost Effective 

Complete system including 
interpreter, screen editor, 
utilities, filer, assembler, 
and compiler. 

with Pascal $350 
with Fortran $400 
with Both $550 

APPLICATIONS 
PFAS 

(Pascal File Access System) 
Keyed-ISAM in 6 K user 
memory $200 

INTELLECT V1 .2 

A full range LISP interpreter 
for UCSD p-systems $200 

MEDOFFICE 

Professional medical office 
software for 1 to 5 doctors. 
Call for pricing. 

DATEBOOK 

Appointment scheduling on 
your micro $295 

READY TO RUN ON 
DEC PDP-11 Jor 
TRS-80 MODEL 11 § 



Editorial 



PCD 



SYSTEMS 



P.O. Box 143 
PennYan, NY 14527 
315-536-3734 



*TM Univ. of Calif. 

tTMofZilog 

+ TM of Digital Equipment 

§TM of Tandy Corp. 



Computer Speech: An Update 



Guest Editorial by Mark C Dahmke 



In 1972 I saw an advertisement in Scientific American for the Votrax speech 
synthesizer — a multiple-board system that produced fairly intelligible speech. 
Although digital speech synthesis has been with us for more than a generation, 
it wasn't until the early seventies that relatively low cost, compact synthesizers 
were available for use in industry. At the time, I became very interested in the 
concept and wanted to experiment with a synthesizer, but the price was still 
too high for my budget. 

Finally, in August 1976, BYTE published an issue on speech synthesis. The 
article "Friends, Humans, Countryrobots: Lend me your Ears" described in 
detail the Computalker CT-1 speech synthesizer designed by Computalker 




Photo 1: The author of this month's guest editorial, Mark Dahmke (left), 
demonstrating the special speech-generating computer system, "The Bionic Voice," he 
developed for his friend Bill Rush. The Computalker -based system allows Bill, a quadri- 
plegic, to "speak" with the aid of a head stick. Mark and Bill were the subjects of a 
feature story in Life magazine last year that was later condensed in the Reader's Digest. 
Hollywood is interested, too: a movie is being produced for television that will tell their 
story and show how personal computers can make a profound difference in people's 
lives. Mark is a Consulting Editor for BYTE, and has had a continuing interest in com- 
puter speech for many years. His forthcoming book, Microcomputer Operating 
Systems, will be published by BYTE Books later this year. ...CM (Photo courtesy Brian 
Lanker). 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 4 on inquiry card. 



TRS-80* Model I Computer Owners . . . 




Double-density storage. 
It's really here! 



Here at Percom. And your authorized Percom dealers. 

And double-density storage is here in a big way. Because now 
you can choose from three different levels of mini-disk systems — 
all double-density rated. 

And get the storage that precisely meets your application 
needs. 

Not to mention the service and quality that's made Percom the 
industry leader. 



Although rated for double-density operation, all 
levels of Percom drives work equally well in single- 
density applications. 

You can operate these drives in ordinary single- 
density format using TRSDOS* Percom OS-80™ 
or any other single-density operating system. 

Or, you can add a Percom DOUBLER™ to your 
Tandy Expansion Interface and store data and 
programs in either single- or double-density 
format. 



Under double-density operation, you can store 
as much as 350 Kbytes of formatted data — de- 
pending on the drive model — on one side of a 
five-inch minidiskette. That's four times the 
capacity of standard 35 -track Model I mini- 
disks, almost 100 Kbytes more than the capacity 
of the eight-inch IBM 3740 format! 

Available in 1-, 2- and 3-drive configurations in 
all three model lines, Percom burned-in, fully- 
tested drives start at only $399. 



Li 




TFD-40™ Drives 

TFD-40 Drives store 180 Kbytes (double-density) or 
102 Kbytes (single-density) of formatted data on one 
side of a 40-track minidiskette. Although economical- 
ly priced, TFD-40 drives receive the same full Percom 
quality control measures as TFD-100 and TFD-200 
drives. 



TFD-100™ Drives 

TFD-100 drives are "flippy" drives. You store twice 
the data per minidiskette by using both sides of the 
disk. TFD-100 drives store 180 Kbytes (double- 
density) or 102 Kbytes (single-density) per side. 
Under double-density operation, you can store a 70- 
page document on one minidiskette. 



TFD-200™ Drives 

TFD-200 drives store 350 Kbytes (double-density) or 
197 Kbytes (single-density) on one side of a minidis- 
kette. By comparison, 3740-formatted eight-inch 
disks store only 256 Kbytes. Enormous on-line stor- 
age capacity in a 5" drive, plus proven Percom 
reliability. That's what you get in a TFD-200. 




_ The DOUBLER™ — This proprietary 
adapter for the TRS-80* Model I com- 
puter packs approximately twice the 
data on a disk track. 



Depending on the type of drive, you 
can store up to four times as much 
data — 350 Kbytes — on one side of a 
minidiskette as you can store using a 
Tandy standard Model I computer drive. 

Easy to install, the DOUBLER merely plugs into the disk 
controller chip socket of your Expansion Interface. No rewir- 
ing. No trace cutting. 

And because the DOUBLER reads, writes and formats 
either single- or double-density disks, you can continue to 
run all of your single-density software, then switch to dou- 
ble-density operation at any convenient time. 

Included with the PC card adapter is a TRSDOS*- 
compatible double-density disk operating system, called 
DBLDOS™, plus a CONVERT utility that converts files and 
programs from single- to double-density or double- to sing- 
le-density format. 

Each DOUBLER also includes an on-card high- 
performance data separator circuit which ensures reliable 
disk read operation. 

The DOUBLER works with standard 35-, 40-, 77- and 
80-track drives rated for double-density operation. 

Note. Opening the Expansion Interface to install the 
DOUBLER may void Tandy's limited 90-day warranty. 

Free software patch This software patch, called PATCH PAK™, 
upgrades TRSDOS* for operation with improved 40- and 77- 
track drives. For single-density operation only. 



Quality Percom products are available at authorized dealers. Call toll free 
1-800-527-1592 for the address of your nearest dealer or to order directly from 
Percom. In Canada call 519-824-7041. 

tv , , „ "■"„ „ . ■;.- - :■ Prices and specifications subject to change without notice, 

trademark of Percom Data Company, Inc. 

trademark of Tandy Radio Shack Corporation which has no relationship to Percom Data Company 



PEflCCM 



PEHCOWI DATA COMPANY. INC. 

211 N. KIHBY • GABLANDTX • 75042 
I214) 272-3421 



Editorial _^_^^_^-^^^^^_ 

Consultants of Santa Monica, California. The CT-1 was 
an S-100 board, consisting of a formant-based syn- 
thesizer, driven by nine parallel output ports. The data 
rate required was only 100 bytes per control parameter 
per second, or 800 bytes per second for normal speech. 

Several software packages were provided: the 
CTMON program and later CTEDIT, allowing the user 
to enter and edit parameter data. Another package called 
CSRl, the Computalker Synthesis by Rule Program, ac- 
cepted as input a character string of phonemes from the 
International Phonetic Alphabet and generated fairly 
good speech. During the mid-1970s, several other single- 
board speech synthesizers became available, allowing 
hobbyists and researchers to experiment with state-of- 
the-art hardware and software without going into debt. 

It was not until early in 1979 that I obtained a Compu- 
talker board for experimentation. The project was to de- 
sign a "Bionic Voice" for my friend Bill Rush, a student at 
the University of Nebraska who has cerebral palsy. (See 
my article, "A Voice for Bill," in the Winter 1979 issue of 
onComputing.) I used the CSRl package and wrote a dic- 
tionary handler program to make the system easy to use 
(since Bill does not have full control of his limbs, he types 
hunt-and-peck style using a stick attached to a band 
around his forehead). 

More recently, I attended a VOCA (Voice Output 
Communication Aid) Conference in Berkeley, California, 
in May 1980. It is obvious from such conferences and 
discussions that voice output for the nonvocal and non- 
verbal (and talking terminals for the blind) are high on 
the list of potential applications of voice input/ output 
technology. 

On the consumer electronics front, VIO (voice in- 
put/output) technology seems to be the trend setter of 
the eighties. This becomes immediately apparent when 
one walks through a consumer electronics show, the 
West Coast Computer Faire, or numerous other product 
shows. Instead of just flashing lights and color video 
displays, products are now talking at, about, and with 
you. 

Some recent developments in speech synthesis include 
the Votrax SC01 single-chip formant synthesizer men- 
tioned in "Articulate Automata" in this issue. Texas 
Instruments has been at the forefront of the LPC (linear 
predictive coding) approach. One of its most successful 
products, Speak & Spell, shows what can be done in the 
consumer products market. 



Articles Policy 

BYTE is continually seeking quality manuscripts written by indi- 
viduals who are applying personal computer systems, designing 
such systems, or who have knowledge which will prove useful 
to our readers. For a more formal description of procedures and 
requirements, potential authors should send a large |9 by 1 2 inch, 
30.5 by 22.8 cm), self-addressed envelope, with 28 cents US 
postage affixed, to BYTE Author's Guide, POB 372, Hancock NH 
03449. 

Articles which are accepted are purchased with a rate of up to 
S50 per magazine page, based on technical quality and suitability 
for BYTE's readership. Each month, the authors of the two 
leading articles in the reader poll (BYTE's Ongoing Monitor Box or 
"BOMB") are presented with bonus checks of SI 00 and S50. 
Unsolicited materials should be accompanied by full name and 
address, as well as return postage. 




PASCAL/Z - Q.E.D. 



Ithaca Intersystems PASCAL/Z is the most powerful CP/M™ 
compatible Z-80™ Pascal compiler ever . . . and here's why: 

PASCAL/Z generates true Z-80 native code — ROMable 
and re-entrant — 5-1 OX faster than P-code interpreters; 
permits separate compilation; supports Direct File Access 
and variable length STRINGs; utilizes fast one-pass recursive 
descent organization; the macro-assembler generates 
relocatable object modules; and much, much more. 

Complete package includes compiler, macro-assembler, 
linker/loader and source for the full library on one disk; with 
free copy of Jensen/Wirth book and complete documenta- 
tion. Only $395.00. 

IT'S DEMONSTRABLE! 
Don't just take our word for it. Ask for a demonstration of 
these features and more today at Computerland® and other 
full-service computer stores. 

Ithaca Intersystems Inc., 1650 Hanshaw Road 

P.O. Box 91, Ithaca, N.Y. 14850. Phone (607) 257-0190 

Computerland is a registered trademark ol Computerland Corporation. 

CP/M and Z-80 are trademarks of Digital Research Corp. and Zilog. Inc. respectively. 

PASCAL/Z and InterSystems are trademarks of Ithaca Intersystems Inc. 




8 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 5 on inquiry card. 



Ithaca Intersystems Inc 

Micros for bigger ideas. 



TM 



The InterSystems 

price-performance-reliability story 

now has three versions 




While everyone's been busy 
trying to convince you that large 
buses housed in strong metal 
boxes will guarantee versatility 
and ward off obsolescence, we've 
been busy with something better. 
Solving the real problem with the 
first line of computer products 
built from the ground up to con- 
form to the new IEEE S-100 Bus 
Standard. Offering you extra ver- 
satility in 8-bit applications today. 
And a full 16 bits tomorrow. 

We call our new line Series 
II. And even if you don't need the 
full 24-bit address for up to 16 
megabytes (!) of memory right 
now, they're something to think 
about. Because of all the perform- 
ance, flexibility and economy 



they offer. Whether you're looking 
at one of our three mainframes, at 
a new mainframe, expanding your 
present one or upgrading your 
system with an eye to the future. 
(Series II boards are compatible 
with most existing S-100 systems 
and all IEEE S-100 Standard cards 
as other manufacturers get around 
to building them.) 

Consider some of the fea- 
tures: Reliable operation to 4MHz 
and beyond. Full compatibility 
with 8- and 16-bit CPUs, pe- 
ripherals and other devices. Eight 
levels of prioritized interrupts. Up 
to 16 individually-addressable 
DMA devices, with IEEE Standard 
overlapped operation. User-selec- 
table functions addressed by DIP- 
switch or jumpers, eliminating sol- 
dering. And that's just for openers. 

The best part is that all this 
heady stuff is available now\ In 
our advanced processor — a full 
IEEE Bus Master featuring Memory 
Map addressing to a full mega- 
byte. Our fast, flexible 16K Static 
RAM and 64K Dynamic RAM 
boards. An incredibly versatile and 



economical 2-serial, 4-parallel 
Multiple I/O board. Our 6-serial 
I/O board. Our Double-Density 
High-Speed Disk Controller. And 
what is undoubtedly the most flex- 
ible front panel in the business. 
Everything you need for a com- 
plete IEEE S-100 system. Available 
separately, or all together in your 
choice of DPS-1 mainframe styles. 

Whatever your needs, why 
dump your money into obsolete 
products labelled "IEEE timing 
compatible" or other words peo- 
ple use to make up for a lack of 
product. See the future now, at 
your Intersystems dealer or call/ 
write for our new catalog. We'll 
tell you all about Series II and the 
new IEEE S-100 Bus we helped 
pioneer. Because it doesn't make 
sense to buy yesterday's products 
when tomorrow's are already here. 

Ithaca Intersystems Inc., 

1650 Hanshaw Road/P.O. Box 91, 

Ithaca, NY 14850 

607-257-0190/TWX: 510 255 4346 

DDDte0% v SteDDDS' 

K^ Ithaca Intersystems Inc 

Micros for bigger ideas. 




'& 



/ 



Circle 6 on inquiry card 



High 
Technology 

We make our 

competition 

obsolete 



with Information Master.™ 

Information Master™ is the sophisticate of 
software packages, but it also speaks your 
language. Its uncomplicated English- 
speaking design makes it easy to learn. 
No programming knowledge is necessary. 
Put it in your Apple II*, and you're ready 
to go. 

High Technology's Information Master 
organizes and prints everything from 
mailing lists to stock market data. Specify 
what records to store, type in the informa- 
tion, and Information Master organizes, 
calculates, stores and reports. Design your 
own reports and labels. Information Master 
is revolutionary in its adaptability and 
comes with a simple step-by-step instruc- 
tion manual. Its screen layouts are designed 
to show you maximum information for 
easy operation. Information Master is so 
smart it stops mistakes that our competition 
lets you make. 

If your computer dealer doesn't have 
Information Master, see one who does. 

High Technology's perfect complement to 
Information Master, Data Master,™allows 
you to change your mind months later 

without redoing 
all the work 
you've 
already 




High 
Technology, Inc. 

Software Products Division 
P.O. Box B-14665 
8001 N. Classen Blvd. 
Oklahoma City, Okla. 731 1 3 
405 840-9900 

•Apple II is a trade name of 
Apple Computer. Inc. 



Editorial 

As VIO technology has become more readily available, 
there is a natural tendency to make everything from 
washing machines to automobiles talk back. Although 
the concept is a novel one, I have enough noise pollution 
to contend with without adding anonymous electronic 
voices. The real problem with voice output is that it is 
omnidirectional. If you're surrounded with devices that 
spontaneously vocalize, it's not always easy to determine 
where the voice came from. Picture the executive who 
has three or four telephones on his desk all ringing 
simultaneously, all sounding the same. Just as high-den- 
sity video displays can cause sensory overload, multiple- 
voice-output devices can also overload the aural channel 
to the brain. 

Voice recognition has taken longer to develop because 
of the many differences between speakers and the dif- 
ferent shades of nuance inherent in contextual informa- 
tion. Factors such as the emotional content of the 
speaker's voice, the accent or dialect, and (the biggest 
problem) continuous recognition, have slowed the evolu- 
tion of voice input technology. Continuous recognition 
means that the computer must be able to determine the 
beginning of one word and the ending of the last — not a 
trivial project. For example, the machine may have to 
distinguish between "I speak" and "ice peak." The prob- 
lem is further compounded by regional accents and other 
variables. While great strides have been made in this 
area, it will probably be many years before generalized 
continuous voice recognition systems become available. 
Isolated word recognition is a much simpler problem, 
and systems are now available with better than 90 per- 
cent accuracy when working with a limited vocabulary. 

With any new or evolving technology, the challenge is 
to use it effectively, efficiently, and with imagination. 
Voice input/output promises to open a whole new di- 
mension to the man-machine interface, one that can be 
sensed without needing to be seen. 

At the end of my onComputing article, "A Voice for 
Bill," I wrote, "I cannot even begin to imagine what uses 
Bill will find for his new voice. But if past accom- 
plishments are any indication of things to come, I want to 
be around in five or ten years to see the results of the 
seeds we have planted." A year and a half later, my sen- 
timents haven't changed a bit. 



Mgj [ReApV] f int I 



MPU- COMPATIBLE 

SPEECH SYNTHESIS 

PROCESSOR 




SERIAL. CODED 
PARAMETER DATA 



Photo 2: The TMS5200 LPC (linear predictive coding) speech- 
synthesizer chip from Texas Instruments. 



10 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 7 on inquiry card. 



Circle 8 on inquiry card. 



Make the Apple II* a powerful 
IEEE-488 Controller in a snap. 



Just plug the SSM A488 board into any Apple II* expansion slot for a low-cost, 

full-featured instrumentation interface. SSM gives the Apple II the power and 
versatility of a $9,000 IEEE-488 controller. At a fraction of the price. 
Our board converts the Apple II into a truly sophisticated controller that 
programs and controls up to 15 different instruments connected together 
on the 488 bus. 

We make programming easy. The 68488 chip, designed by Motorola, forms the 
heart of our A488. We back this chip with powerful on-board firmware to 
give you system control via simple string commands. The only software 
you need is easy-to-program Applesoft* Basic. To develop special purpose 
firmware, simply replace our PROM with a RAM. With the A488, bus com- 
munications operate at top speed — without depending on software loops for 
timing. And like the more expensive IEEE-488 controllers, this system interfaces 
with more than 1200 instruments and peripherals. 

Suitable for OEMs as well as end users. Whether you make test/measurement systems for re- 
sale, or simply for yourself, the SSM/Apple combo gives you top performance. As it cuts 
your costs. Call your local dealer or SSM today for complete details. 



IEEE-488 bus cable 



Industrial grade circuit board 

PROM firmware for powerful user interface 
68488 IEEE-488 controller chip 





Slot-independent connection to Apple L 




SSM'sA488 board expands the Apple II to 
a high-performance IEEE-488 controller. 



' Registered trademarks of Apple Computer Inc. 




SSM Microcomputer Products, Inc. 

2190 Paragon Drive 
San Jose, C A 95131 
(408)946-7400 Telex: 171171 
TWX: 910-338-2077 



High 
Technology 

Have you heard? 
The Cashier* has been 
promoted to 
The Store Manager. 



The Cashier has so much more to offer 
than its name implies that we decided to 
give it a new name. This valuable software 
package can save time and increase profits 
for small business owners by providing: 

• real-time inventory control 

• point-of-sale functions 

• customer & vendor address lists and 
mailing labels 

■ informative management reports 

• up-to-the-minute sales monitoring 

• invoices, quotations, & packing slips 

• purchase orders & receiving reports 

• daily, monthly, and year-to-date sales totals 

■ physical inventory checklists 

• and much, much more. 

But what can you call a software package 
for the Apple II* that does so much? You 
might call it 'remarkable' ... we call it 
The Store Manager. 

Drop by your local 
computer store and 
see what The 
Store Manager 
can do 
for you. 



Editorial. 




High 
Technology, Inc. 

P.O. Box B-14665 
8001 N. Classen Blvd 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma 731 13 
405 840-9900 



* Apple II and The Cashier are trade names of Apple Computer Inc 



/ visited Texas Instruments in early November and was 
given a demonstration of their text-to-speech tech- 
nology. The text-to-speech system uses a TMS5200 
LPC (linear predictive coding) speech-synthesizer 
chip similar to that used in the Speak & Spell product 
line (see photo 2). A message may be entered in stan- 
dard English, represented in ASCII. The text is then 
converted to allophone codes (allophones are subsets 
of a phoneme, the basic unit of speech) which are in 
turn used to retrieve LPC parameters from an 
allophone library stored in ROM (read-only memory). 
Several algorithms are used to smooth the resulting 
parameters and adjust the amplitude and intonation to 
yield continuous-sounding speech. The system has in- 
herent advantages; the allophone tables are quite 
small, typically 3 K bytes for 128 allophones. Other 
languages may be implemented by changing the text- 
to-allophone rules. I experimented with a version of 
text-to-speech that ran on a TI 99/4 personal computer 
development system. It accurately interpreted the 
silent "e" on the end of words like "while" and 
"release" but misinterpreted the (nonsilent) "e" on the 
end of my last name, which is not surprising. When 
given the word "synthesizer" is said "syntheniner." 

TI is also working on a timesharing system that is 
similar to The Source. It will interface with the TI 99/4 
and use its graphics, sound, and voice outputs. The 
system is completely menu driven, and will even log 
on for you. It sends blocks of information to the TI 
99/4, each with a label indicating what kind of data is 
coming. In this way text, graphics, speech, and music 
may be sent independently. If the user's system doesn't 
have certain features, it simply ignores the blocks of 
data it can't handle. If you ask for the weather reports, 
it draws a picture on the screen of a sun, rain clouds, 
or something in between, plays an appropriate tune 
(ie, "Rainy Days and Mondays"), displays text giving 
the temperature and other vital information, and can 
also recite the temperature using text-to-speech. It 
will be interesting to see how the system is received on 
the consumer market.... MCD 



New Computer Speech Developments 

Scott Instruments of Denton, Texas, recently an- 
nounced the VET/2 — a speech-recognition interface for 
the Apple II. It will run with any existing software 
because, once loaded, either keyboard or voice input 
may be used. The program will handle forty-word vocab- 
ularies, with the option of overlaying other vocabularies 
to double or triple the number of words. 

Street Electronics of Anaheim, California, has an- 
nounced the Echo series of speech synthesizers. Versions 
are being designed for the Apple II and the TRS-80. The 
units use the Texas Instruments TMS5200 LPC syn- 
thesizer chip mentioned in the editorial. The software 
driver runs in about 900 bytes of memory. Individual 
vocabulary words take between 10 and 20 bytes, depend- 
ing on the length of the word MCD ■ 



12 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 9 on inquiry card. 



Circle 10 on inquiry card. 







Edison had over 
1,800 patents in 
___ his name, but 
you can be just as inventive 

with an Apple. 



Apple is the company with the brightest ideas in 
hardware and software and the best support — so you can 
be as creative with a personal computer system as Edison 
was with the incandescent bulb. 

How Apple grows with you. 

With Apple's reliable product family, the possibilities of 
creating your own system are endless. Have expansion capa- 
bilities of 4 or 8 accessory slots with your choice of system. 

Expand memory to 64K bytes or 128K bytes. Add an 
A to D conversion board. Plug into time sharing, news and 
electronic mail services. Use an IEEE 488 bus to monitor 
lab instruments. Add 4 or 6 disk drives — the 5 'A" 143K 
bytes, high-speed, low-cost drive that's the most popular 
on the market. 

Apple speaks many languages. 

Since more than 100 companies create software for 
Apple, you'll have the most extensive library in the personal 



computer world. Want to write your own programs? 
Apple is fluent in BASIC, Pascal, FORTRAN, PILOT and 
6502 assembly language. 

There's even a series of utility programs called the 
DOS Tool Kit that not only lets you design high-resolution 
graphic displays, but lets you work wonders with 
creative animation. 

More illuminating experiences in store. 

You won't want to miss all the Apple products being 
introduced at your computer store all the time. Don't let 
history pass you by. Visit your nearest 
Apple dealer or call 800-538-9696. 
In California, 800-662-9238. Or write: 
Apple Computer, 10260 Bandley Drive, 
Cupertino, CA 95014. 

apple computer inc. 






The Minifloppy tradition. The standard is set for high- 
performance 96 TPI Minifloppys. And it's by Shugart. Double 
track and double density, the single and double-sided 
SA410 and SA460 Minifloppys deliver .5 or 1 MBytes 
of unformatted capacity on a 5V4-inch diskette. 
Small wonder. Designed by the company that 
. invented the Minifloppy, the SA410 and SA460 
represent the culmination of all previous 5 1 /4- 
inch disk drive technologies. What you get 
today is the most thoroughly engineered, most 
manufacturable, and most reliable Minifloppy 
drive available. The SA410/460are the new 
standard in the eighties for price, performance, 
and capacity. 



hugart introduces 
of Minifloppys: 




jStep into the future. Innovation, experience, and 
proven performance have always been the hallmark 
of the Minifloppy tradition. And the S A41 0/460 are the 
{ first of the next generation in that tradition. Utilizing 
A technology proven in our 8-inch disk drive products, 
■ the SA410 and SA460 use a multi-step positioning 
technique, thus eliminating pole asymmetry, an 
inherent source of positioning errors and degraded 
performance. The simplicity of this multi-step 
positioning motor and the HeliCam lead screw 
follower insure its manufacturability, consistent 
high performance, reliability, and low cost. 



'"Trademark of Shugart Associates 



Positioned for success. Shugart's new HeliCam™ 

positioner delivers far greater accuracy than that of 

competitive actuators. The result is super precise 

positioning tolerances that virtually eliminate the 

problems of media interchange previously associated 

with 96 TPI 5 1 /4-inch technology. The HeliCam 

solution means that you can reduce, by a significant 

margin, data handling errors— especially between 

systems in less than ideal environments. 




the next generation 
SA410/460. 



A new era starts today. Our commitment to the 5 1 /»-inch disk drive market is driven by 
your requirements for low cost, highly reliable disk drive solutions. With unmatched 
commitments in manufacturing and R&D resources, we're dedicated to delivering 
innovative, standard-setting products that meetyour needs— both today and tomorrow. 
And we back all our products with superior technical support, design assistance, and 
in-depth documentation. Call today. We'll be delivering in production volumes by 
early 1 98 1 . D Shugart Associates: 475 Oakmead Parkway, Sunnyvale, CA 
(408) 733-0100. Sales & Service:' Sunnyvale, CA; Costa 
Mesa, CA; Minneapolis, MN; Richardson, TX; Framingham, 
MA; Mt. Freedom, N J; Atlanta, GA; Toronto.Ontario; 
Paris, France; Munich, Germany. D 



^.Shugart 

The next generation is here 





Circle 11 on inquiry card. 



Letters 



Katchlng Up with Khachlyan 

I would like to commend the authors 
of "Khachiyan's Algorithm" (G C 
Berresford, A M Rockett, and ] C 
Stevenson) published in the August and 
September 1980 BYTEs (pages 198 and 
242, respectively). Their presentation il- 
lustrated the essentials of the algorithm 
without getting bogged down in its 
derivation. However, now that I under- 
stand it (I hope), it is somewhat disillu- 
sioning to realize that the "amazing 
shortcut" appears to be only a nonprac- 
tical mathematical curiosity. 

I have some observations regarding 
the algorithm. First, the huge initial 
volume subsequently requires the in- 
credible precision. Hadamard's initial 
volume is much smaller, and this should 
reduce the precision requirements; but 
by how much? Also, if upper bounds 
are defined for all X„ would this be 
helpful7 

Even if the precision problems are 
solved, the total number of arithmetic 
operations to solve a large linear-pro- 
gramming problem still appears to be in- 
tractable. The upper bound for the 
number of iterations is lbLn , and each 



iteration uses Order(« + m) multiplica- 
tions for the matrix inner products. 
Presumably, if a solution exists, the 
number of iterations will be much less 
than ltLn (but by how much?), and the 
number of multiplications per iteration 
can be reduced to Order(n + m) via 
Strassen's algorithm. However, both of 
these appear to be greater than those re- 
quired by the usual revised Simplex 
algorithm. While the Simplex algorithm 
can require Order(2") iterations, it usual- 
ly finds the optimal solution in 
Order(m). Also, each iteration needs 
only Order(mn) multiplications (revised 
Simplex). 

Memory requirements also seem to 
put Khachiyan's algorithm at a disad- 
vantage. The giant A array (see state- 
ment 430, listing 1, September 1980 
BYTE, page 246) can be reduced to 
negligible size using linked lists, and the 
Ql and W arrays could use the same 
space, but this still leaves three (m + ri) 
by [m + n) arrays for Khachiyan's 
algorithm. In contrast, the only large ar- 
ray for the revised Simplex is the m by 
m B array. 

The problem of solving large linear- 
programming problems looks more 



^DISK DRIVE BONANZA BY QT^ 

8" DISK DRIVES 
Shugart 801R Sgl/side Dbl/Den $395.00 
Two for $775.00 

Qume Datatrak 8'dbl sided, dbl density. 

QME-8DS (851 R compatible) $ 599.00 

Pkg of two $549.00 ea 



QT DISK PACKAGES 

I Dbl Den Controller, A & T, two 8" dbl den drives. CP/M® 

2.2, cabinet, power supply & cables $1395.00 

H Two 801R disk drives with cabinet, power supply 
& fan $1100.00 

III Dual 8" Drives: 

Dbl den drives in cabinet only 

2 sgl sided (801R) $ 989.00 

2 dbl sided (QUME) $1409.00 



5 1 /4" DRIVES 



MPI-B51 MPI B-51 S250.00 

Sgl Sided Sgl/Dbl Den 

Exact Replacement for SA-400 
MPI-B52 MPI B-52 S350.00 

Dbl Sided. Dbl Den 



9t 



*z 



COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS 
INC. 
15620 South Inglewood Ave. 
Lawndale, California 90260 
(213) 970-0952 



c 

J 



MPI-B91 MPI B-91 S375.00 

Sgl Sided. Dbl Den, 77 Tracks 
PERTEC FD-200 PER-FD200 S225.00 

Sgl Sided. Sgl/Dbl Den 
Shugart SA400 SHU-SA400 S250.00 

Sgl Sided. Dbl/Den 

WE ACCEPT M/C, VISA, AM EXP 
PLACE ORDERS TOLL FREE 

1-800-421-5150 

(CONTINENTAL U.S. ONLY) 

(EXCEPT CALIFORNIA) 

CP/M is a trademark ol Digital Research 



promising if array-oriented hardware is 
used. For example, a clocked matrix 
multiplier can read in, compute, and 
write out the inner product of two n by 
n matrices in 5 n clock periods. This 
would be an immediate benefit for the 
revised Simplex as well as a help to 
Khachiyan's algorithm, if the precision 
problem can be overcome. 

William J Butler Jr 
44 Dees Cr 
Warwick RI 02889 



Berresford, Rockett, 
and Stevenson Reply 

We are happy that you found our ar- 
ticles on Khachiyan's algorithm so infor- 
mative. Our purpose was to encourage 
such experimentation with the 
algorithm. As the articles explained 
(and, incidentally, earlier than any other 
journal as logged in the February 1980 
issue of Abstracts of Papers Presented to 
the American Mathematical Society,), 
Khachiyan's algorithm is not capable of 
immediate practical application largely 
because of the incredible precision re- 
quired. 

In fairness to Leonid Khachiyan, it is 
clear from his paper that he never in- 
tended his result as a practical method 
for solving linear-programming prob- 
lems. In fact, linear programming is only 
mentioned in one sentence in the intro- 
duction, the rest of the paper being 
devoted to the consistency problem for 
linear inequalities. His purpose was a 
purely theoretical one: to prove that 
linear consistency and, therefore, linear- 
programming problems could be solved 
in polynomial instead of exponential 
time. It was the American and European 
press (with the exception of BYTE) that 
erroneously construed the result as one 
of practical rather than theoretical im- 
portance. (In fact, many other journals 
have had to issue retractions or correc- 
tions of earlier ill-considered statements.) 

As to your specific questions, there is 
little we can say except to answer "yes": 
your suggestions would doubtlessly im- 
prove the algorithm. Dr Philip Wolfe of 
IBM (Yorktown Heights, New York) has 
been serving as a clearinghouse and 
evaluator for the numerous improve- 
ments to the algorithm that have been 
suggested, but none so far seem to ac- 
celerate the algorithm by as much as one 
order of magnitude. Thus, it is far from 
competitive with the revised Simplex 
algorithm. While the Klee-Minty exam- 
ple shows that the Simplex method is an 
exponential-time algorithm, problems 
similar to Klee-Minty rarely occur in 
practice, and when they do, standard 



16 February 1981 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 12 on inquiry card. 



Circle 13 on inquiry card. 



Now with n 

for thousands motffirogramsT^and new 
8-inch disk systenrfor millions more bytes. 



1 


[^■^1 




T~l 






t 




*iI^M 




i 


; i 


J 








1 sw^ - 




• 







The Heathkit All-in-One Computer now has space 
for 64K of addressable RAM, so you can run bigger, 
more complex programs. 

And our new CP/M'" Operating System (Standard 
ORG-0, Version 2.2) makes thousands of CP/M pro- 
grams available to you. Heathkit systems can run 
more, do more, store more than ever before. 
A new 8-inch double-sided, double-density disk sys- 
tem, with over 1 million bytes per drive, is now avail- 
able for Heathkit H-89 and H-8 Computers. 
The new 8-inch disk system features soft-sectored 
disks for IBM"* compatibility. It's capable of operat- 
ing in standard IBM 3740 format. And the 8-inch sys- 



VISIT YOUR HEATHKIT STORE 

Heathkit products are displayed, — 
sold and serviced at Heathkit 
Electronic Centers*, located in 
major cities throughout the U.S. 
and Canada. See your white 
pages for the store nearest you. 

'Units of Veritechnology Electronics 
Corporation, in the U.S. 



?Wa 



tern can be used in conjunction with 5%-inch 
systems. For compatibility with the rest of the in- 
dustry, Heathkit Computers may just be the most 
flexible systems you can buy. 

All Heathkit computers and peripherals are avail- 
able in money-saving, easy-to-build kit form — or 
completely assembled and factory tested. All are 
supported by the best documentation in the busi- 
ness and by 62 service centers throughout the U.S. 
and Canada. You're never out in the cold. 
For complete details and prices on Heathkit com- 
puters, peripherals and software, write today for 
the latest Heathkit Catalog or visit your 
ililfjf I nearby Heathkit Electronic Center*. 

",*A * Send for FREE catalog 

Write to Heath Company, Dept. 334-744, 
Benton Harbor, Ml 49022 

I In Canada, contact Heath Co., 1480 Dundas St. E., 
Mississauga, Ontario L4X 2R7 



Heathkit 



IBM is a registered trademark of International Business Machines Corporation. CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 



Letters. 



tricks (such as reseating) usually greatly 
reduce the time needed for solution. In 
fact, experience seems to indicate that 
the revised Simplex method is almost 
linear in the number of variables, thus 
making it hard to beat. 

A more complete answer to your 
questions about improving Khachiyan's 
algorithm will have to await large-scale 
experimentation by IBM and others. 



Comments on the Heath H-89 

In regard to Mark Dahmke's review 
of the H-89 (see "The Heath H-89 Com- 



puter," August 1980 BYTE, page 46), I 
agree with him until he starts talking 
about the "disadvantages." The text 
editor is not that hard to operate, and, if 
he thinks it is, he can get a different one 
from HUG (Heath User's Group) or 
other sources in Buss. He also mentions 
the lack of a RUN "FNAME" command 
in BH (Benton Harbor) BASIC, but, in 
version 1.6, which is the version Mr 
Dahmke worked with, you can say 
CHAIN "FNAME" with the same results. 

All of Mr Dahmke's other observa- 
tions are true, but there are cures. For 
example, to keep the disk head from 
banging up and down, change the HS 



YOU THINK YOU'VE SEEN WORD 
PROCESSING SOFTWARE? 



The 



MAGIC WAND 



Word Processing 



System offers you the best features of any system 
in the micro market 



FEATURES INCLUDE: 

Full-screen text editor 

Simple, control key operation 
Edit programs as well as text 

Assemble, compile or run programs 

without modification 
Files larger than memory 

Files up to 256K 
Library files 

Merge part or all of one file with 

another 
Spool printing 

Print a file while editing another 
Easy page formatting 

Simple commands set margins, page 

length, etc. 
Override commands at run-time 

Give any command from the key- 
board as well as in file 
Variablepitch control 

Change pitch in mid-line, even 

mid-word 
Up to 128 user-defined variables 

String, numeric or dollar format 
Form letter generation from external 
data files 

Compatible with both sequential and 

fixed-record files 
Conditional commands 

Any command may be conditional 
Print to disk and/or printer 

Save all or part of output on disk 
Switch from specialty printer to CP/M 
list device 

Print the same file on either specialty 

or standard printer 



Version 1 . 1 is now available 

EASE OF OPERATION 

With all its power, the MAGIC WAND is 
remarkably easy to use. This is no acci- 
dent. The command structure is designed 
to be flexible and logical so that you can 
perform basic functions with a minimum of 
commands. 

We have included in the manual a step- 
by-step instructional program, for the per- 
son who has never used a word-proces- 
sor before. The trainee uses sample files 
from the system disk and compares his 
work to simulated screens and printouts. 

In addition to the lessons, the manual 
has a complete documentation of the 
command structure, special notes for pro- 
grammers, an introduction to CP/M for 
non-programmers and a glossary. The 
manual is typeset, rather than typewritten, 
for greater legibility. 

We have written the manual in non- 
technical English, because wewantyou 
to read it. We don't overload you with a 
bunch of jargon that could confuse even a 
PhD in Computer Sciences. 

We send out newsletters so that users 
of the MAGIC WAND can learn special 
applications of the print commands. For 
example, we might show you how to cre- 
ate a mailing list or set up an index for 
a file. 

In short, we've done everything we can 
to make things easy foryou. Because the 
best software in the world is just a bunch 
of code if you can't use it. 



For more information , call or write: 

sttiaYY business o^vcaXvous, uic. 

3220 Louisiana • Suite 205 • Houston, Texas 77006 • 713-528-5158 



CP/M is a registered ii 



k ol Digilai Research Coip 



jumper to open and the HM jumper to 
closed in the disk unit on the "program- 
ming plus." Then the head stays loaded 
as long as the motor stays on, about a 
minute after the last operation. Of 
course, you could time-delay the load 
signal. 

The last, and probably more impor- 
tant, point is how not to need the 
HDOS system on every disk. On ver- 
sion 1.6, the command SET HDOS 
STAND-ALONE can be used and, after 
the warning message, the command 
RESET SY0: will be honored. This might 
mess up versions earlier than 1.6; and, if 
you land on a disk while not in PIP or 
ONECOPY, the SYSCMD.SYS will 
load. If the verions differ, you might get 
a FATAL SYSTEM ERROR, but, all in 
all, it is a good trade-off. Be sure to 
LOAD LP: and other DUDs before 
RESETing after BOOT up. 

Bill Pinkston 
Saltillo MS 38866 



If I may add a few things to Mr 
Dahmke's review of the Heath H-89: 
Heath's BH BASIC is neither fast nor 
high in precision (my Ohio Scientific C3 
will run circles around it), but it does 
have one great advantage for the debug- 
ging phase of programming. While other 
BASICs will null all variable and array 
values upon a revision of any line of 
program, however trivial, BH BASIC 
does not. Thus you can stop execution, 
fix up a defective line, and restart in 
mid-program, rather than having to re- 
run from the beginning — a real advan- 
tage for long programs, and for pro- 
grams requiring many INPUTs to get 
going. 

A detail I like about the H-89 is its 
ability to take commands in lowercase, 
converting input to uppercase as needed. 
That's very nice if you spend a lot of 
time in the word-processing mode. 

Oddly, Mr Dahmke had little to say 
about the display and keyboard. I have 
to cope daily with a Televideo 912, an 
industrial-grade terminal which will 
cause you to appreciate the superior 
quality of the H-89 display and key- 
board. The 912 is susceptible to false 
key contacts, which usually cause the 
display to do truly weird things, thereby 
forcing you to abandon your input and 
to refresh the entire display. It also gives 
no audible confirmation of key contact; 
and the 80-character line is limited to 
perhaps two-thirds of the screen width, 
wasting the rest of the screen. The H-89 
terminal runs at 9600 bps (bits per sec- 
ond) — some have been pushed to 19,200 
bps — a difference especially noticeable in 
word-processing and financial programs, 
for which execution time is limited by 
the display, rather than by computation. 



18 February 19S1 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 14 on inquiry card. 



MM 

Mountain Computer 

can now 

EXPAND 

Your Apple II Peripheral Capacity 

EXPANSION CHASSIS 



duality You Expect 

Eight more slots for your Apple! Now you 
can bank-select eight more peripheral slots 
with immediate or deferred software 
commands — like having up to 16 peripheral 
cards "on line" — or use the Select/Deselect 
switch mounted on the front panel. 
Expansion Chassis' heavy-duty power 
supply is primarily for peripherals, without 
the heavy demand of motherboard support 
chips required in your Apple. This means 
much more power is available for peri- 
pherals than in your Apple itself! If you've 
run out of room in your Apple— Expansion 
Chassis is your answer. Drop by your Apple 
dealer for a demonstration, or contact 
Mountain Computer for the location of 
the dealer nearest you. 



Performance You Demand 

• Eight mirror image I/O slots of the Apple 

• Fully buffered, bi-directional data lines 

• Apple II compatible interface card 

• Dual selection capability; hardware or 
software 

• Immediate or deferred selection in 
software mode 

• From BASIC, a single POKE command 
turns the chassis ON or OFF 

• Compatible with all software 

• Dedicated power supply with 
approved power transformer 

K Mountain Computer 

I NCOBPORATED* 

300 Harvey West Blvd., Santa Cruz, CA 95060 
(408) 429-8600 TWX 910 598-4504 




Apple is a trademark ol Apple Computer Inc. 



Circle 15 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 19 



Letters. 



I have to disagree with Mr Dahmke's 
assertion that the Heath text editor is 
useless. I use it, as a word processor, for 
hours every day, with no difficulty; 
however, I'm not hampered by familiar- 
ity with any other text editors. Mr 
Dahmke's statement that the H-89's 
reading of error messages from disk 
takes "several seconds" is, frankly, an 
exaggeration. The actual elapsed time is 
under one second, though it certainly 
seems longer. Also, the disk head does 
not touch down for "each and every sec- 
tor"; it reads the sectors in pairs, 
touching down for every other sector, 
which is noisy and slow enough. 

If you want a sophisticated machine, 
or a fast, high-precision computer, the 
H-89 isn't it. The H-89 is a fine word- 
processing and financial computer, right 
for the user who doesn't want to get 
deeply involved in computer hardware 
and software. 

Jack McKay 

3200 19th St NW 
Washington DC 20010 

Mark Dahmke Replies 

/ thank Mr Pinkston and Mr McKay 
for their comments about my review, 
and for bringing the various "fixes" to 
my attention and to that of BYTE's 
readers. My philosophy for reviewing 
equipment is that 1 am reviewing essen- 
tially what comes out of the box. Any 
updates from readers are greatly ap- 
preciated, but I feel I must give potential 
buyers an accurate indication of what 
the product is like as it comes from the 
manufacturer. As for the other com- 
ments regarding the editor, I will stand 
by my statements in the review. 



Dissecting the 
Speak & Spell Article 

The article published in the September 
1980 BYTE concerning the TI (Texas In- 
struments) Speak & Spell (see "Dissect- 
ing the TI Speak & Spell," by Michael A 
Rigsby, page 76) contains a number of 
serious errors that must have upset staff 
scientists Richard Wiggins and Larry 
Brantingham at TI's Central Research 
Laboratory in Dallas, Texas. 

To suppose that the TMC0281 device 
used in the Speak & Spell is the same as 
the SN76477 is to greatly underestimate 
Texas Instruments' achievement. The 
TMC0281 is, in fact, a complete speech- 
synthesizer device fabricated in metal- 
gate depletion-load p-channel technology 
and contains an entire digital-signal pro- 
cessor, with timing and decoding cir- 
cuits, a ten-stage digital lattice filter, and 
a D/A (digital-to-analog) converter. The 
system is based upon the relatively new 

20 February 1981 © BYTE Publications lnc 



voice-compression technique known as 
linear predictive coding. This technique 
can generate high-quality speech from 
low data rates (less than 2400 bits per 
second). Linear predictive coding is so 
called because of the way in which the 
coefficients that characterize the digital 
filter are predicted from a linear com- 
bination of the previous coefficients. 
This requires a great deal of number 
crunching — in the case of the TMC0281, 
160,000 additions and 160,000 10- by 
14-bit multiplications every second. TI 
confounded the many skeptics who said 
it couldn't be done. To get around the 
speed problem, Wiggins transformed all 
the calculations into a fixed-point format 
and Brantingham designed a pipeline 
processor that is contained within the 
TMC0281. 

The coded speech data for the syn- 
thesizer device is stored in the 
TMC0351's read-only memory. These 
are 16,384 by 8-bit devices (ie: 128 K 
bits) having an internal 18-bit address 
counter/register and two 8-bit output 
buffers. Fourteen of the address bits go 
to the memory array directly, while the 
4 most significant bits are used in a 
l-of-16 chip select. 

The controller chip, the TMC0271, is 
a slightly modified calculator chip, a 
member of the Texas Instruments 
TMS1000 family. It has been modified 
to enhance its BCD (binary-coded 
decimal) arithmetic and expand its in- 
struction set. Also, there is an output 
multiplexer to reduce the pinouts needed 
for the Speak & Spell application. 

Contrary to the implications in the ar- 
ticle that the "operation of the Speak & 
spell involves many unknowns," TI has, 
in fact, published full details of its three- 
chip synthesizer system (see Electronics, 
August 31, 1978, pages 109 thru 116) 
and many other articles have appeared. 
A letter to TI brings (at least in my case) 
a set of reprints. 

Tim Spracklen 

23 Buttermere, Greenways, Spennymoor 

Durham, DL16 6UD, England 



De Facto of De Matter 

This is a plea for order in what could 
be the next standards chaos: Sol Libes 
mentioned a Massachusetts company 
planning to use home VTRs (videotape 
recorders) for hard-disk backup. (See 
"Backing Up Winchesters" in 
"BYTELINES" October 1980 BYTE, 
pages 188 and 189.) Corvus also plans 
such a system. Our company, D C 
Crane lnc, is planning one using the 
Digital Graphic Systems CAT-100 video- 
display board. 

The technique will allow saving and 

Circle 16 on inquiry card. 



A growing 
line of tools to 
expand the Apple. 



7440A Programmable Interrupt Timer Module. 

Time events in four operating modes— continu- 
ous, single shot, frequency comparison, and 
pulse width comparison. Includes three 16-bit 
interval timers, plus flexible patch area for 
external interface. Programmable interrupts, 
on-board ROM, and much more. 

7720A Parallel Interface. Two bi-directional 8-bit 
I/O ports will connect your Apple to a variety of 
parallel devices, including printers, paper tape 
equipment, current relays, external on/off 
devices. Full featured, programmable inter- 
rupts, supports DMA daisy chaining. 

7811 B Arithmetic Processor. Interfaces with 
Applesoft, so you just plug in and run. Based 
on the AM 9511 device, provides full 16/32-bit 
arithmetic, floating point, trigonometric, loga- 
rithmic, exponential functions. Programmed I/O 
data transfer, much, much more. 

7710A Asynchronous Serial Interface. Conform- 
ing to RS-232-C A thru E 1978 standard, this 
card will drive a variety of serial devices such as 
CRT terminals, printers, paper tape devices, or 
communicate with any standard RS-232 device, 
including other computers. Full hand-shaking, 
and fully compatible with Apple PASCAL! 

7470A 3tJ BCD Ay D Converter. Converts a DC 
voltage to a BCD number for computerized 
monitoring and analysis. Typical inputs include 
DC inputs from temperature or pressure 
transducers. Single channel A/D, 400 ms 
per conversion. 

7490A GPIB IEEE 488 Interface. A true imple- 
mentation of the IEEE 488 standard— the 
standard protocol for instrumentation and test 
devices. Control and monitor test instruments 
such as digital voltmeters, plotters, function 
generators, or any other device using the 
IEEE 488. 

7114A PROM Module. Permits the addition to or 
replacement of Apple II firmware without 
removing the Apple II ROMs. Available with 
on-board enable/disable toggle switch. 

7500 A Wire Wrap Board. For prototyping your 
own designs. 

7510A Solder Board. 

7590A Extender Board. 



Watch this space for new CCS products for 
the Apple. We've got some real surprises in the 
works. To find out more about the CCS product 
line, visit your local computer retailer. The CCS 
product line is available at over 250 locations 
nationally, including most that carry the Apple. 
Or circle the reader service number on this ad. 

Apple II, Apple II Plus, and Applesoftaretrademarks 
of the Apple Corporation. 

CCS makes the difference. 



We see the Apple 




We see it as a good 
way to get things done. 

Apple has built a great computer. We at CCS have 
built a great line of peripherals and components to expand 
the Apple. To do almost anything you want to get done 
with a computer. 

If you wafit to do business with an Apple, we've got 
tools to connect the Apple to standard business printers and 
terminals. Or to modems, for communications over tele- 
phone lines, with other computers, even with other Apples. 

If you want to apply your Apple to engineering, scien- 
tific, or graphic projects, we've got tools for high-powered, 



mwm\ 



high-speed math functions, and fast, high resolution graph- 
ics. And tools to connect the Apple to lab test equipment 
like function generators or plotters. 

And we have tools to connect the Apple to the outside 
world, including A/D converters and interval timers with 
external interface. 

We make components for the S-100 bus, the PET, and 
the TRS-80, too.We built our products to deliver hard- 
nosed value to the OEM, and to the inventor who knows the 
best, at prices that are unbeaten. 

To find out how much computer your Apple II can be, 
see things our way. Because for serious users with serious 
uses for the Apple, we've got the tools. 




California Computer Systems 

250 Caribbean Sunnyvale, CA 94086 [408] 734-5811 










APPLE n OR 
APPLE II PLUS 




Shipped direct to you! 

s 899 00 

(Plus Shipping) 

We have orchard fresh Apple 
products ready to ship. Im- 
mediate delivery with cashiers 
check. Orders with personal 
checks shipped after bank 
clearance. COD's require ship- 
ping charges be paid in advance. 

16K UNITS $899 

64K(16Kinslot) 

$1250 

Apple Disk Drive $550 
Pascal Language Card 

$450 

Above plus $20 shipping charge. 

IMPORTANT— No shipments made with- 
in the state of Illinois. 



THE COMPUTER ROOM 

P.O. BOX 11375 

CHICAGO, IL 60611 

(312)427-1941 



ORDER 

Enclosed $_ 
For 



FORM 



_Via U.P.S. 



Ship to: 
Name_ 



Address. 



(No P.O. Boxes-Street Address Only) 



City- 



State. 



.zip- 



Letters ^— ^—^— __ 

restoring hundreds of megabytes. It will 
also establish de facto interchange stan- 
dards. Could we learn from the past7 
Just this once7 Please7 

I would like to hear from anyone in- 
terested in helping develop or use such a 
standard with a view toward document- 
ing the problem and the solutions in an 
article for BYTE. If a formal standards 
commission is interested, so much the 
better. Please write me at the address 
below. I will put you in contact with 
each other and contribute my ideas 
toward a solution. 

David C Crane 
D C Crane Inc 
POB 79286 
Houston TX 77079 



Have You Tried 
onComputlng? 

For fifteen years I have dreamed of 
using a computer for my one-man busi- 
ness. I have tried to find the right one in 
BYTE, on and between the lines. The 
result of my search is the feeling that, to 
become "computerized," I must become 
an expert in mathematics (Boolean and 
otherwise), electronics, hardware, soft- 
ware, semiconductors, integrated cir- 
cuits, languages, and all the rest of the 
stuff. Oh, my aching head! Help, help! 
The computer train is rolling so fast and 
I am unable to climb aboard. 

When I first became "motorized," I 
didn't have to be an expert in mechan- 
ics, thermodynamics, aerodynamics, 
electricity, tire structure, fuel chemistry, 
etc. I simply sat in the car and— without 
any help — taught myself the rules of the 
road. Who can, for a moderate price, 
link together and harmonize some of the 
wonderful programs advertised in BYTE 
to make a system coherent, practical, 
and flexible? 

R E Gilbert 
Jozef Hermanslei 41 
B-2510 Mortsel 
Belgium 

Of course, a computer is much more 
complex than any automobile, but the 
analogy is still valid. People should be 
able to get what they want from a com- 
puter with a minimum of fuss. Until 
then, Mr Gilbert, guides are necessary: 
enjoy the complimentary copy of 
onComputing; she's our sister publica- 
tion for the layman. 



Sharp-Looking TRS-80 

Upon studying the advertisements for 
the new TRS-80 Pocket Computer, I was 
surprised to find the letter Y's original 



22 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



second function (ie: ¥, for the yen on 
the Sharp PC 1211) deleted. 

If that's the way the Tandy Corpora- 
tion has to lure prospective customers 
into thinking that the Pocket Computer 
is Ail-American made, I pity any 
Japanese importer trying to sell an 
American computer without String-capa- 
bility.... 

Marc H Bruna 
Abrikozenstraat 31 
2564 VK Den Haag 
Netherlands 



Tree Is Root of Problem 

As a fellow member of the University 
of Oklahoma, I feel it necessary to point 
out some of the areas where I disagree 
with Dr Bill Walker's article "Sorting 
With Binary Trees" (October 1980 
BYTE, page 96). These areas will be 
dealt with in the same order as they ap- 
pear in the article. 

First, Dr Walker gives the impression 
that a tree sort is both fast and allows 
deletion of nodes in an efficient manner. 
As he says, a tree sort is faster than a 
bubble sort, but almost any serious sort 
routine will be faster than a bubble sort. 
Likewise, deleting a node from a tree is 
faster than deleting an element from a 
bubble-sorted list, but deleting nodes 
from trees, except in the special cases of 
AVL; B; and 2-3 trees, is not particular- 
ly fast. (See The Design and Analysis of 
Computer Algorithms, by Alfredo Aho 
and Jeffrey D Ullman. Reading MA: 
Addison-Wesley, 1974.) 

Second, students of graph theory tend 
to define a tree as an acyclic graph. (See 
Graph Theory, by Frank Harary. Read- 
ing MA: Addison-Wesley, 1969.) By this 
definition, the object presented in Dr 
Walker's figure 1 is not a tree, but a 
rooted graph. 

Third, Dr Walker states that one way 
of scanning a sorted tree (a binary- 
search tree) would be to first visit the 
leftmost node in each branch, then the 
parent, and finally visit the rightmost 
node, repeating this sequence until 
finished. He proceeds to say that this is 
"tough for computers." However, the 
C-language routine in listing 1, page 24, 
performs Dr Walker's suggested 
algorithm. 

Next, the algorithm used to search a 
tree can be cleaned up considerably, as 
shown in listing 2. The algorithms used 
to delete and add nodes are excellent, 
and rewriting those in C would serve no 
other purpose than to expose the defi- 
ciencies of Pascal. 

We now have nice, short algorithms 
to do everything that Dr Walker wanted 
to do to the tree, except to delete nodes 

Circle 17 on inquiry card. » 



MICROSETTE 



C-10— $1.00 C-60— $1.75 



Al 




DATA 
TAPE 


• 




t 


50 

FEET 






MICHOSETTE CO. 


475 Ellis St. 


Mt. View, CA 94043 




• • 




• • 






[ A ' 




DATA 
TAPE 


• 




■• 


100 




FEET 


1 MICROSETTE CO. 


475 Ellis St 


, Mt. View, CA 94043 




• • 




• • 





$1.25 



MICROSETTES FOR 
COMPUTERISTS 

In the amazing microcomputer industry 
a three-year-old product is a winning 
product. Microsette users acclaim the 
excellent value and reliability of these 
cassette tapes for safe storage of their 
computer programs. Microsette 50-foot 
and 100-foot length cassettes aire backed 
by a 30-day warranty for use on all popu- 
lar microcomputers. The two convenient 
lengths store the complete memory 
contents of most microcomputers. The 
tapes are as excellent for Hi-Fi audio as 
for microcomputer use. 





MICROSETTE CO. 475 Ellis 


St. 


Mt. View, CA 94043 






•• « 









MICROSETTES FOR 
AUDIOPHILES 

Audiophiles are very selective when it 
comes to media for their high fidelity 
systems. A recent survey of BYTE Maga- 
zine readers revealed that 98% own high 
fidelity audio equipment. Microsette 
tape quality is already well established 
with microcomputer owners. Now Micro- 
sette offers popular C-60 arid C-90 length 
cassette tapes for the computerist who 
is also an audiophile. 

Dealer prices are 50% of list. Available in 250 quantity 
case lots only. Write or call (415) 968-1604 for complete 
details. 



Microsette Co., 475 Ellis St., Mountain View, CA 94043 



Circle 18 on Inquiry card. 



Have some 

gieat 
memories. 




16K PROM boards. 

■ PROM card has 2708-type memory 

■ Quality board construction ■ 0-4 wait states 

■ Address any 4K group to any 4K boundary 

■ Control up to 8 banks of memory ■ Fully 
assembled and tested ■ PRICE— $300 

(California residents add 6% sales tax) 

Expandable 5 MHz RAM boards. 

8— 32K expandable RAM board uses TI 4044 
memory runs at 5MHz ■ Fast 250 ns access 
time ■ Bank select ■ Address any 4K block to 
any 4K boundary ■ Quality board construction 

PRICE— 8K— $175; 16K— $315; 24K— $475; 
32K— $620; 8K add-on kits— $135 

(California residents add 6% sales tax) 

Call or write Artec for details 




Letters. 



from it. As far as I know, the algorithm 
he used cannot be improved upon to 
any great extent. This point is the basis 
for my statement that it is not relatively 
easy to delete nodes from a tree. 

To achieve the operations Dr Walker 
wants (easy insertion and deletion, while 
maintaining a sorted list, plus easy 
searching), I would recommend a 
double-linked list. The algorithms for 
dealing with this structure can be found 
in any good data structures or 
algorithms text. 

Mike Meyer, Student 
University of Oklahoma 
POB 1749 
Norman OK 73070 



J thoroughly enjoyed Dr Walker's arti- 
cle on binary-tree sorting in the October 
BYTE. He presented a subject that often 
receives a boring and confusing treat- 
ment in an interesting and clear manner. 
Since the amount of data I must sort 
daily has recently doubled, the article 
came at the right time. 

Time after time I have seen the subject 
of trees presented in magazines and 
books. Each time I lacked the incentive 
to actually implement a tree structure on 
my system. The whole thing seemed too 
complicated for the results obtained. 
However, Dr Walker provided the push 
I needed to get it going. 

Although some of the coding is redun- 
dant, by the author's own admission, 
and is slightly inefficient in some areas 



(due mostly to the direct conversion 
from FORTRAN and his desire to keep 
the program portable), the program 
makes sense. That sounds simple, but 
many programs don't make any sense at 
all — they just work "somehow." 

Because of the use of highly structured 
subroutines and "standard" BASIC, I 
easily translated the program of his 
listing 1 into Oasis BASIC and modified 
it for operation on strings. This later 
change is simple if the BASIC used 
dimensions a string-array length rather 
than a string length. The modification to 
sort strings requires changing P in lines 
200 and 205, KEY, and ALPHA to string 
variables. It works well and fast. 

I did, however, find one major design 
problem. It is associated with the dele- 
tion of a right terminal node that is not 
the last node in the sorted sequence. 
Both the coding of line 3090 and the 
logic of table 1, Case II, Group B, Sub- 
case 1 call for setting the right link 
pointer of the parent Q to NIL (setting 
RLINK(Q) = NIL). This tells the tree- 
traversal routine that this parent is the 
last item in the tree. Often it is not. 

The proper logic is to set RLINK(Q) 
equal to RLINK(P). In this way, the 
parent Q of the deleted node P will 
point back to the ancestor node, the one 
that follows it in the sorted sequence. If 
the deleted node P was the terminal 
node of the entire tree, its parent, Q, 
will assume this property when the node 
P is deleted. That is the only problem I 
found. 



Listing 1 



dKTGC GLGCTROMiajMC 

605 Old County Rd., San Carlos, CA 94070 
Telephone (415)592-2740 



struct node { 

i n t info ; 

struct node *leftson, *rightson ; 

1 ; 

visit(root) struct node *root; { 

if (root == NULL) return ; 
visit(root -> leftson) ; 
printf("%d ", root -> info) ; 
v isit(root -> rightson) ; 
} 

Next, the algorithm used to search a tree can be 
cleaned up considerably, as shown: 

search ( roo t , item) struct node *root; { 
while (root != NULL) { 

Listing 2 

if (root -> info == item) 

return(root) ; 
if (root -> info > item) 

root = root -> leftson ; 
else 

root = root -> rightson ; 

} 
return (NULL) ; 
1 



24 February 19S1 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 19 on inquiry card. 



Two proven ways to expand 
your TRS-80* capability 



Exatron's 
Stringy/Floppy... 
speed, capacity 
and reliability 
fQLonly $249.50 



8C IS 

TRS-80 User's Journal 

New "How-To" info 

for the serious 

TRS-80 user 




Exatron's Stringy/Floppy mass storage system 

gives you the speed, capacity and reliability of a mini-disk 

system at far less cost. Thousands of ES/ F users agree. 



Here's your complete 
Starter System: 

• ES/F Operating Manual 

• Basic ES/F System 
($249.50) 

• 10 Blank Wafers 

• ES/F Monitor Program 

• Tutorial Demo Program 

• 2 for 1 Bus Connector 



Data I/O Program 

FREE 1 Year 
Subscription to 80-CJ.S., 
the User's Journal 

Complete Info Package 

Complete Starter Kit: 
$299.50 



80-CI.S. is expanding with more pages, programs 

and color with heavy emphasis on advanced 

TRS-80 applications... plus a regular Exatron 

Stringy/ Floppy feature. 

Special Introductory offer $9.95 per year 

We'll send you six issues of 80-CI.S. for only 
$9.95 . . . almost half the regular price. If you purchase an 
Exatron Stringy/ Floppy System, we'll send them FREE. 

OFFER VALID UNTIL MARCH 31, 1981. 
Send to: 



CALL OCIR FREE HOTLINE 
(800) 538-8559 

IN CALIFORNIA: (408) 737-71 1 1 



80S 

Sign me up! I can't resist at $9.95! 

□ Check □ Money Order DM/CorVisa 



80-CI.S. Journal 
3838 South Wamer Street 
Tacoma, WA 98409 
(206) 475-2219 



CARD NUMBER 



Or contact: 




exatron 

181 Commercial Street 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086 



TRS-80 Trademark of Tandy Co. 



STATE ZIP 

Offer good only In the United States. 




Circle 20 on inquiry card. 



TOUGHEST 
BOARDS 
IN TOWN 

FOR S- 



Monitor and control 

in wicked environments. 




Want to put your S-100 system to 
work in the world of computerized monitor- 
ing and process control? 

Dual Systems has all the boards it 
takes to do the job in the toughest factory 
environments. All are designed to function 
dependably in the real world of industrial 
control. All operate with Cromemco, North 
Star and other S-100 systems. 
A/D board. 12-bit precision. 32 single- 
ended inputs. Or 16 differential inputs. 25 
us conversion time. Vectored interrupt. 
$635. Or $725 with 1 to 1000 gain trans- 
ducer amplifier. Works with our thermo- 
couple compensation board and our 4-20 
mA input boards as well. 
D/A board. Four independent channels. 
12-bit precision. Input is binary or 2's com- 
plement. Compatible with all existing I/O 
mapped software. $495. Drives our ampli- 
fier board which outputs 4-20 mA. 
CMOS RAM board. On-board battery 
back-up preserves data a year. 200 ns 
read/write time. Runs at 4 MHz. 8K bytes 
$590. 16K bytes $990. 
CMOS clock board. On-board battery 
back-up keeps clock running a year. New 
LSI chip carries date, hours, minutes and 
seconds. Read or write directly from I/O 
port. Vectored interrupt. $250. 

We also provide complete main- 
frame systems. OEM and dealer inquiries 
are invited. 

Contact Dual Systems Control 
Corp., Dept. B, 1825 Eastshore Hwy., Berke- 
ley, CA 94710. Phone (415) 549-3854. 




Letters , 



Many thanks to Dr Walker. It was a 
great article; I would enjoy seeing more 
articles from him in the future. 

Jack Dolby 

335 D-l Hiddenwood Dr 

Newport News VA 23606 



Screen Print for TRS-80 

In the October BYTE, Teri Li's 
'Technical Forum" talks about some of 
Radio Shack's modifications for the 
TRS-80. (See "Radio Shack's Modifica- 
tions to the TRS-80," page 182.) The 
screen-print problem created by the 
lowercase modification has a simple 
solution. Run the program shown in 
listing 1. 



The screen will display: @ABCD 
EFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ (up 
arrow) (down arrow) (left arrow) 
(right arrow) (dash) 

This is how TRSDOS prints characters 
to the display. The alphabet codes are 
decimal 1 to 26. If we add 64 to each 
decimal value PEEKed from the display 
that is less than 32, then print the CHR$ 
equivalent to the printer, no problem 
will be encountered. 

The program in listing 2, called as a 
subroutine, will print the contents of the 
display to a line printer. 

This routine works on uppercase and 
upper/lowercase keyboards. 

Gary E Alcorn 
1037 E Redondo Dr 
Tempe AZ 85282 



Listing 1 
10 CLS 

20 FOR A = 15360 TO 15391 
3 POKE A,B 
40 B = B + 1 
5 NEXT A 
60 PRINT 
70 END 
Listing 2 

50 P = 1536() 

5010 FOR V = 1 TO 15 : FOR H = TO 63 
5020 IF PEEK(P) < 32 THEN F'* = CHR* ( PEEK ( P ) + 64) ELSE 

P* = CHR* (PEEK (P ) ) 
5 30 L.PRINT P*J 5 P = P + 1 J NEXT H 
5040 LPRINT" " 
5050 NEXT V 
5060 RETURN 



Pain In the Exhaust 

The article "FCC Regulation of 
Personal- and Home-Computing 
Devices," by Terry Mahn (September 
1980 BYTE, page 180) has consequences 
for buyers and sellers of microcomputer 
systems that are far-reaching and not 
widely realized. 

Compliance with the new FCC 
(Federal Communications Commission) 



regulations and the associated paper- 
work, testing, and certification are ex- 
pensive. Personal- and business-com- 
puter systems will be more expensive 
after the first of January, 1981, because 
the consumer will be paying for com- 
pliance with these regulations. 

Let me first point out that, as a 
licensed radio engineer, I must agree that 
restricting radio emissions from personal 
home-computing devices is both neces- 



26 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



THE NEW RELIABLES 



We used to be known as Industrial Micro Systems and 
we made the best micro componentry around. 

Now we're IMS International, and the best compo- 
nents in the business are an integral part of the best and 
broadest micro-based business system line around. Ours. 

As a dealer, here is a sales package with real teeth. 

Easy to sell. 

Reliable. Engineered equipment offering factory tech- 
nical support a phone call away. (Though we have 
equipment in operation since 1975, yet to fail.) 

Low cost — well under $10,000 complete — with 
the best margins and benefits in the industry. Face it, 
even the most impressive specifications are no replace- 
ment for profits. 

Our systems are designed to meet the specific needs 



of your business computer customers today and tomor- 
row. Our tested dealer sales package has been designed 
for you and your needs. 

Tailored sales plan. National advertising backup. 
Point of purchase program. Protected territories. 
Guaranteed complete system deliveries in 30 days. 
180-day warranty to your customers. 

We have what you and your customer need. 

The package is complete. New. Reliable. 

To become part of our expanded dealer network in 
1981, call Fred Williams (collect) 714/978-6966, 
or write us: 

Boxl 

2800 Lockheed Way 
international Carson City NV 89701 

Circle 21 on inquiry card. 










p-='/ ; :S 





Well, to begin with, color graphics. 

RCA's VP-3301 has unique color-locking circuitry that gives 
you sharp, jitter-free color graphics and rainbow-free characters. 

Plus much more: Microprocessor control. Resident and 
programmable character set. Reverse video. State-of-the-art 
LSI video control. 20 and 40 character formats. RS232C and 
20 mA current loop. Six baud rates. Eight data formats. ASCII 
encoding. Light-touch flexible-membrane key switches for 
reliability and long life. CMOS circuitry and a spill-proof, dust- 
proof keyboard for hostile environments. 

The VP-3301 can be used with a 525-line color or monochrome 

monitor or a standard TV set through an RF modulator. It 

serves a wide variety of industrial, educational, business and 

individual applications including communication with time 

sharing and data base networks such as those provided by 

Dow Jones News/Retrieval Service, CompuServe and Source. 

All this— for the low price of $369. And it's made by RCA. So 

get the whole story about the surprising VP-3301 today. Write 

RCA Microcomputer Marketing, New Holland Avenue, 

Lancaster, PA 17604. Or call toll-free: 800-233-0094. 



'Suggested user price. Monitor and modem not included. 

©1980. RCA 

28 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Letters • 

sary and desirable. The impact of this 
restriction is not yet fully realized by 
businesses or consumers. 

I will discuss both views. My com- 
pany functions as an OEM (original 
equipment manufacturer), buying 
boards, cabinets, floppy disks, etc, from 
various companies and customizing these 
into systems for our customers. We are 
in a favorable location, where the FCC 
is a local telephone call away, and its 
testing labs, in Laurel, Maryland, are 
right up the street. As a business, what 
we have to do to legally advertise or sell 
a system after January 1, 1981, involves 
a lot of work and money. The testing 
and certification are beyond our in- 
house capabilities, and the necessary 
spectrum analyzer — even to rent — is ex- 
pensive. A lab in our area will do the 
testing for us for $1500. Necessarily, this 
forces us to raise our products' prices. 
There, then, is even more involved 
paperwork and such. Now, $1500 is not 
a lot to the Tandy Corporation, Apple 
Computer, or Hewlett-Packard, but it 
does represent a problem for the hun- 
dreds of small computer businesses. 

Also, we believe our main selling 
point is S-100 compatability, whereby 
we can choose from the wide spectrum 
of available boards to customize a user's 
system. However, if we change anything 
that would affect RF (radio frequency) 
emissions (ie: substitute a different in- 
put/output or memory board), we must 
recertify the "new" configuration. This 
will defeat any flexibility we now enjoy. 
The key point is that larger manufac- 
turers can easily absorb these expenses, 
and we "little guys" are forced to raise 
prices drastically, or go out of business. 

For consumers, you'll be paying more 
for a system that is certified to meet RF 
emission/interference criteria. It is hard 
not to draw parallels with emission-con- 
trol equipment required on automobiles. 
In principle, it is an excellent idea. In 
practice, it is a pain in the exhaust, and 
an expense. 

Having presented the problem, let me 
suggest some approaches. Even though 
this matter has been studied by the FCC 
for three years, it is being sprung upon 
manufacturers rather quickly. I believe a 
period of evaluation by the industry — 
particularly the microcomputer "cottage 
industry" — is in order. I have mentioned 
this to the FCC and to my congressman. 
Also, I would be happy to discuss these 
issues with any other interested parties. 

This issue represents a critical turning 
point for our industry and our hobby. I 
do not believe that many people are 
aware of the consequence. 

Patrick H Stakem, President 
Interface Technology of Maryland 
POB 745 
College Park MD 20740a 



Circle 22 on inquiry card. 



THE DAWN OF 
A NEW AGE 




The 2nd Generation is here! 



MEASUREMENT systems & controls proudly 
introduces its new and exciting "2nd Generation 
family of S-100* compatible products. Each has 
been specifically designed for use with 
multi-user and network 
operating systems such 
as MP/M, CP/NET, and 
OASIS. Every product is 
fully tested and burned- 
in, comes with a 1 year 
guarantee, and offers 
you features not 
currently available from 
any other source. 

Z80 PROCESSOR 
BOARD — The most 
powerful CPU board available today. Outstanding 
features include 4MHz operation, high-speed serial 
and parallel I/O utilizing DMA or programmed 
control, eight vectored priority interrupts, and a 
real time clock. 

MULTI-USER SERIAL I/O BOARD - For use in 

expanded systems requiring up to eight additional 
serial I/O ports. Features include: 16 maskable 

'All products meet the new IEEE standards. 




Systems 




vectored priority interrupts, RS-232C interfaces 

with full handshake, asynchronous or synchronous 

operation with asynchronous baud rates to 19,200. 

Available in four or eight channel versions. 



DOUBLE DENSITY 

FLOPPY DISK 

CONTROLLER BOARD- 

controls up to four 5V4- 
inch or 8-inch disk drives 
using IBM soft sectored 
formats. It features 1K 
of on-board buffering, 
DMA controlled data 
transfers and the per- 
formance character- 
istics of the superior 
NEC 765 chip. 



64K BANK SELECTABLE MEMORY BOARD - 

Features include I/O port addressing for bank 

select with 256 switch selectable I/O ports for the 

memory bank addressing. The memory is 

configured as four totally independent 16K 

software-selectable banks, with each bank 

addressable on any 16K boundary. 



"Attractive Dealer & OEM Prices" 

See your nearest computer dealer, or 

contact us for the complete story on 

The 2nd Generation. 



a Division of MEASUREMENT systems 8. controls 

incorporated 



867 North Main St. / Orange, Calif. 92668 
(714) 633-4460 TWX / TELEX: 678 401 TAB IRIN 



Hardware Review 




Radio Shack's Daisy Wheel Printer II 



Yvon Kolya, POB 22, Peterborough NH 03458 

In August of 1980, Radio Shack introduced a series of 
new products, including a daisy-wheel printer capable of 
producing high-quality print for word-processing 
systems. Radio Shack named the device the Daisy Wheel 
Printer II. 

I was fortunate enough to be among the first to receive 
one of the new Daisy Wheel Printer lis. I picked it up at 
the store only a week after ordering it. 

Physical Appearance 

As I expected, the printer had an attractive ap- 
pearance, using the standard Radio Shack colors black 
and silver. However, much to my surprise, I found the 
printer to be constructed entirely of heavy-gauge cast 
aluminum. The only nonmetal parts were the miscella- 
neous knobs and switches, which were brought out to the 
surface of the cover for the user to manipulate, and a rub- 
ber platen. Upon opening it up, I discovered that the 
metal exterior was well supported by a cast aluminum in- 
terior frame, with a layer of foam rubber sandwiched be- 
tween the two for sound absorption. Everything else 
seemed to be made of steel or chrome, except the pulley 
wheels, which were nylon. All in all, the printer appeared 
to be very solidly constructed. It was a bargain to get all 
this excellence for hundreds of dollars less than an 
equivalent letter-quality printer. 

Connecting It 

As soon as I had unpacked the printer from its shipping 
box, I plugged the carbon ribbon cartridge into place, a 
very simple operation, and then I pressed the print wheel 



into position (also a very simple operation). When I con- 
nected the printer to my TRS-80 Model II and tried it out, 
it worked perfectly. 

I borrowed a friend's TRS-80 Model I Disk System and 
tried it out with the printer. It also worked perfectly the 
first time. 

Next I connected it to an Apple II-Plus computer, using 
its Parallel Printer Interface Card. Unfortunately, it did 
not work. After a little experimentation, I discovered that 
the problem was with the ROM (read-only memory) soft- 
ware on the parallel card. Normally, the Apple's software 
leaves the eighth bit of the data bus set high. When it's set 
low, the characters on the video display flash on and off. 
On the Centronics printers, and their look-alikes, this bit 
is ignored. On the Radio Shack printer, however, the 
eighth bit is used for the special characters. To correct 
this problem, I grounded the line for the eighth bit, and 
the printer then worked correctly with the Apple II-Plus. 
I could have used a software routine to correct this prob- 
lem, but I felt this method would be quicker. 

Printer Controls 

There are two control switches on the front of the 
printer, an on-line/ off-line switch and the pitch-control 
switch. There are three modes of pitch control: 10 cpi 
(characters per inch), 12 cpi, and proportional spacing. 
The pitch control used depends upon the type font 
mounted in the printer. For example, if the Courier 10 
font daisy wheel is in place, this switch should be placed 
in the 10 cpi position. If the Prestige Elite font is used, the 
switch setting should be 12 cpi. The Madeleine font re- 
quires that the switch be set to proportional spacing. To 
some minor degree, the 10 and 12 fonts can be used at 
either the 10 or the 12 cpi switch setting, although using 



30 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 23 on inquiry card. 



?>* 



■%£>! 



<f* 



:^TV 




«£$ 



m-> 



SM 



£P^ 



E 



ZORK is more 
than an adventure. 

Zork'" is a computer fantasy of ultimate challenge. Un- 
earthly creatures guard treasures beyond your imagina- 
f tion. Mazes confound your quest. So quicken your wits 
and pick your path carefully through the Great Under- 
ground Empire. The least likely object 
7 may be the only thing that can save ,..* 

your life. iSSSV 

Yet, you can succeed. Discover the 20 
treasures of Zork, return them to the Trophy 
Case and leave alive. But bring all the cunning 
and courage you can muster. Because in 
Zork, they take no prisoners . . . 

Zork, The Great Underground Em- 
pire, was created by Infocom, Inc., and 
j±.\is available for 32K Apple* II and II 

--Plus and 32K TRS-80'" Model 1 Level I — - 

K 11 disk systems. 
I Also new from Personal Software 

is MONTY '" Plays Monopoly* which 
lets an Apple or TRS-80 play Amer- 
ica's favorite board game with the 
family. 

Arcade Classics is a new TRS-80 
action game featuring Cosmic 
Raiders, Pinball, Ricochet and 
8fc\ Blockade:"' A great way to 
^, J \ have fun without feeding 
quarters into the machines 

Zork, MONTY Plays Mon- 
J3 opoly and Arcade Classics- 
more fun and games with 
your computer, now join- 
ing our other Strategy 
Games: Microchess, 
Gammon Gambler, 
j Checker King, Bridge 
Partner and Time Trek. 
' ./ See these great strat- 

egy games at your Per- 
sonal Software com- 
puter retailer. For the 
I dealer nearest you, call 
| Personal Software Inc. 
at 408/745-7841, or write 
1330 Bordeaux Drive, 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086. 

When you put your 
computer to work, use 
Personal Software'" Pro- 
ductivity Products: VisiCalc,'" 
DESKTOP/ PLAN" and 
CCA Data Management 
System. _ ■ 



"Wg 



ft 



I 4 



v, 



the 10 font at the 12 setting will make the letters appear 
cramped. 

At the top of the printer are two levers, one on the 
right for releasing the grip of the platen on the paper, and 
one on the left for controlling the number of carbon 
copies (from 1 to 7) to be run through the printer. 

At the rear of the printer are, once again, two switches. 
One switch is directly above the power cable, and it is 
used to turn the machine on and off. The other is over the 
interface connector; it is the self-test switch. The self-test 
switch prints out a series of characters to test both the 
printer and the print wheel. 

Inside the printer, to the right of the cabinet, there is a 
three-position impression intensity control switch. It 
allows you to adjust the amount of energy used by the 
strike-hammer when printing. 





Name 


Audience 


Daisy Wheel Printer 


Computer owners desir- 


II — catalog number 


ing letter-quality printout 


26-1158 


instead of dot-matrix 


Use 


Features 


Letter-quality printer 


Print speed: 43 cps; 




carriage-return speed: 


Manufacturer 


300ms/13% inches (34.5 


Radio Shack 


cm); linefeed speed: 4 


1 Tandy Center 


ips; printing pitch choice 


Forth Worth TX 76102 


of y i0 inch, y i2 inch, or 




proportional spacing; 


Dimensions 


linefeed pitch: % inch or 


20.45 by 62.5 by 39.5 cm 


Yi 2 inch; fonts: 124 char- 


W 20 by 24% by 15^ 


acter positions on 


inches) 


double-daisy print wheel; 




wheels: Courier 10 


Price 


(supplied), Prestige Elite 


$1960 


12 (not supplied; catalog 




number 26-1421), 


Hardware Required 


Madeleine P S (not 


TRS-80 Model I, II, or III 


supplied; catalog number 


computer, or any com- 


26-1422); characters per 


puter capable of driving a 


line: 136 characters at 10 


standard Centronics- 


pitch, 163 characters at 


interface parallel printer; 


12 pitch; impression con- 


requires a printer- 


trol: high, medium, low; 


computer cable, available 


interfaces (physical): 


from Radio Shack, for 


eight parallel and one 


whichever Radio Shack 


strobe; code: Modified 


computer the printer is to 


ASCII; paper-feed 


be used with. 


mechanism: pinch-feed 




platen; power 


Software 


requirements: 120 VAC, 


None (if used with 


50/60 Hz, 141 W 220 


appropriate configuration 


VAC, 50 Hz (for 


of a Radio Shack com- 


European operation) 


puter) 




Hardware Options 




Tractor feed, $249 extra 




Documentation 




38-page manual, 22 by 28 




cm (8V2 by 11 inches), 




includes schematics 





Printer Attributes 

This printer does not require special software for use. If 
you have the proper printer cable for your computer, you 
can use the printer immediately. While in BASIC, you 
can use it to print listings, or you can use it from within a 
program to deliver hard-copy information. If you have a 
word processor, such as Radio Shack's Scripsit or 
Michael Shrayer's Electric Pencil, you are really ready to 
go. 

Unfortunately, both Electric Pencil and Scripsit are in- 
capable of using all the features of this printer. For exam- 
ple, not all of the control codes accepted by this printer 
are used by these two word processors. The codes ac- 
cepted by the Daisy Wheel Printer II are given in table 1. 

Unfortunately, Scripsit will access only the carriage- 
return-with-linefeed code (decimal 13) of this printer. The 
rest of the codes are not used. 

Electric Pencil is only a little bit better in that it accesses 
the backspace feature (to perform underlining) in addi- 
tion to the carriage-return-with-linefeed code. 

Fortunately, BASIC is capable of accessing all of these 
codes (using the function CHR$(X)); the printer's manual 
provides several example lines of BASIC code that can be 
used to do this. Listing 1 shows the first step of a maze 
generated on the Apple II-Plus printed by this printer. A 
word of caution: if your BASIC program uses the top-of- 
form code (decimal control code 12), you will need a 
special driver program for this printer. This special pro- 
gram is available from Radio Shack free of charge. 

Although BASIC can access all of the characters and 
control codes used by the printer, the TRS-80 in com- 
mand mode is incapable of accessing either the special 
control codes or about thirty characters on the print 
wheel because the keyboards of the Tandy Corporation 
computers do not generate the necessary ASCII (Amer- 
ican Standard Code for Information Interchange) codes. 

The complete character set produced by the printer is 
shown in listing 2. Notice that there are several foreign- 
language characters, as well as special nonalphabetic 



Listing 1: A test pattern to check registration. This pattern, 
which is made from vertical bars and underline characters, 
demonstrates the printer's capabilities of great printing 
accuracy. 



Listing 2: The character set of Radio Shack's Daisy Wheel 
Printer I!. Some of the special characters can be printed only by 
sending special-character codes to the printer. 

!"#$»& '()*+,-. /0123456789: ; <->?@ABCDEFGHIJKLMNOPQRSTUVWXYZ [\]"_" 
' abcdef ghi jklmnopqrstuvwxyz { | } ~ag£u ° 't" 9 ® H i5sue"f §¥A0Ut_a6uG 



32 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 24 on inquiry card. 




"•I* 



How to tell if it's a White Computer. 



You see, it isn't always white. 
Until now, if you bought a White 
Computer it was dressed up as some- 
one else's system. Mow the White 
Computer is available under its own 
nameplate. 

And the features that make the 
White Computer the choice of many 
system builders also make the White 
Computer an excellent choice for you. 

Features like White's guaranteeto 
ship replacement parts within 24 
hours of your telephone call. CP/M® 
and MP/M™ operating systems. Full 
upgrade routes to multi-user and 
hard-disk performance. (Like the 
3-user 35 megabyte system shown.) 
And 8-bit or 16-bit configurations. 
Features that make the White Com- 
puter the reliable, high performance 



system you need for business, or 
software development, or industrial 
control uses. 

So if you buy a computer that's 
not white, it might still be White. But 
make sure. Because if it's not White, 
chances are you're paying more, for 
less computer. 

White Computers are now 
available from computer dealers 
nationally. Call or write for more 
information, and the name of your 
nearest dealer. 

CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research. 
MP/M is a trademark of Digital Research. 




White Computer Company A 1876 Industrial Way 
Redwood City, California 94063 A 415 364 7570 




Photo 2: The print-wheel mechanism. The print wheel is a 
double-daisy wheel (ie:. each prong of the wheel contains two or 
more characters, one closer to the center than the other). The 
mechanism is shown tilted back, which is the position used for 
changing the print wheel. 



Code (decimal) Description 


10 


Linefeed, no carriage return 


13 


Carriage return with linefeed 


27,10 


Reverse linefeed 


08 


Backspace one character 


15 


Turn on automatic underline, all subsequent 




characters will be underlined 


14 


Turn off underline 


27,01 


Space V 60 of an inch 


27,02 


Space V 30 of an inch 


27,03 


Space V 20 of an inch 


27,04 


Space V 15 of an inch 


27,05 


Space V, 2 of an inch 


27,06 


Space 7 10 of an inch 


27,14 


Software set printer to '/,„ of an inch character- 




space mode 


27,15 


Software set printer to V, 2 of an inch character- 




space mode 


27,17 


Software set printer to proportional spacing 


27,28 


Half linefeed 


27,30 


Reverse half linefeed 


Table 1 Control codes accepted by the Radio Shack Daisy 


Wheel Printer I!. Some of the operations are performed with 


a two-code 


sequence. 



characters. Careful study of the type font indicates that 
the Courier 10 print wheel supplied with the printer is 
capable of printing both the French and German alpha- 
bets. That's a really nice feature, if your software will 
allow you to generate the required ASCII codes from the 
keyboard. 

Another worthwhile feature of this printer is a printer 
optimizer. If a series of linefeeds, either positive or 
negative, are received by the printer within 10 ms of each 



DEALERS... OEM USERS. 

Call on Monday... 
your North Star 
computer 
will be 

dldltkmmil by 
Thursday. 




WHOLESALE PRICES 
AVAILABLE. 

Authorized stocking 
distributor for North 
Star. GBC also main- 
tains ready stock on 
the following prod- 
ucts and software: 

• Centronics 

• Perkin-Elmer 

• Epson 



1 NEC Spinwriter 
• Turnkey North Star 
Business Software 



(609) 424-0465 



£1UM) inc. 

General Business Computers 



2020 Fairfax Avenue 
Cherry Hill, New Jersey 08003 



other, they are temporarily stored until a character code 
or control code is received, after which they are all per- 
formed at once. That is, if ten linefeed codes are received 
at less than 10 ms intervals, they are automatically 
stored. Upon receipt of the eleventh code, which in this 
example is not a linefeed, the printer moves the paper the 
full distance of ten linefeeds, rather than the distance of 
one line ten times, as other printers do. 

As a last note, the documentation says that the printer 
uses a multistrike carbon ribbon. This means that the rib- 
bon is advanced very slowly, with each key striking on 
almost the same place as the previous keystroke. Unfor- 
tunately, when the end of the cartridge is reached, you 
cannot rewind it and reuse the ribbon unless you disas- 
semble the cartridge and rewind the ribbon from the take- 
up reel to the supply reel by hand. This is a very tedious 
and messy process. (I did it once when I desperately need- 
ed a printout and did not have an extra cartridge avail- 
able.) 

Summary 

• Radio Shack's Daisy Wheel Printer II is a full-featured 
printer capable of providing high-quality print; it is total- 
ly suitable for use in word processors. 

• The printer accepts the Centronics-standard parallel 
connector; thus it can be driven by any computer capable 
of driving a Centronics-type parallel printer (although 
some modification may be necessary to prevent the print- 
ing of special characters that use the eighth bit high). 

• The print wheel supplied provides 124 different 
characters, not all of which can be produced from the 
standard ASCII keyboard unless a special software- 
driver routine is written and used. 

• The printer is constructed of heavy-gauge metal and 
should be capable of heavy-duty use for a very long and 
useful life. 

• According to a label on the back, the printer was made 
in Japan for Radio Shack. If someone had told me that 
Radio Shack would be selling a word-processor printer as 
solidly built as an NEC (Nippon Electric Company) 
printer or a Diablo Spinwriter, only much cheaper, I 
wouldn't have believed it. Now I do.B 



34 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 25 on Inquiry card. 



* * * A PERCOM BULLETIN * * * 

Adapter for TRS-80* computer eliminates disk read errors 



Garland, Texas — Harold 
Mauch, president of Percom 
Data Company, announced 
that the company is marketing 
a simple plug-in adapter for 
TRS-80* computers that cor- 
rects a design deficiency in 
the disk controller circuit. 

The problem, which 
causes disk read errors, has 
been traced to Tandy's re- 
liance on a circuit internal to 
the FD1771 controller IC to 
perform the function of 
separating clock and data 
pulses. 

As explained in the 
Backgrounder, use of the in- 
ternal chip circuit for reliable 
data-clock separation is a de- 
sign shortcut which the man- 
ufacturer of the controller IC 
warns against. 

The Percom solution, a 
PC card adapter called the 
SEPARATOR™, eliminates 
the problem by substituting an 
explicit data separator circuit 




SEP.. 1771 

CLOCK PiN ?b 



SEP. 17 71 
DATA PIN 2 7 



1771 

S p 1 N 2 5 



RATOR 



DATA CO. INC. 



Percom adapter fixes TRS-80* \computer disk controller. 

— one which has been used The SEPARATOR™ is 

reliably in Percom disk con- installed without modifying the 

trailers since 1 977 — for the host system. The user merely 

internal IC separator circuit. removes the FD1771 IC from 



the host controller, installs the 
IC in the DIP socket on the 
SEPARATOR™ card, and 
plugs the adapter into the va- 
cated socket of the host con- 
troller. 

Percom cautions that 
opening the Expansion Inter- 
face of the TRS-80* comput- 
er, which is required to install 
the SEPARATOR™, may void 
the computer's limited 90-day 
warranty. 

The SEPARATOR™, 
which sells for $29.95, may 
be purchased from Percom 
dealers or ordered direct from 
the factory. The Percom toll- 
free order number is 1- 
800-527-1592. 

Payment for mail orders 
may be made by certified 
check, cashier's check or 
money order, or charged to a 
Master Card or VISA account. 
Texas residents must add 5% 

SaleS taX. Circle 26 on Inquiry card. 



Percom Mini-Disk Drives 
Store More, Cost Less. 

Percom mini-disk drives store more data, are 
more reliable, yet a 40-track Percom drive 
costs $100.00 less than a 35-track Tandy 
drive. 

You can store over 1 02 Kbytes per disk 

on Percom TFD-100™ 40-track drives, over 

197 Kbytes per disk on TFD-200™ 77-track 

drives. A patch — supplied free on minidiskette — upgrades 

TRSDOS* for operation with the newer 40- and 77-track drives. 

Both TFD-100™ and TFD-200™ models are available in 

one-, two- and three-drive configurations. 

Prices start at $399 for a single-drive TFD-1 00™, $675 f ora 
single-drive TFD-200™. Drives are supplied with heavy-duty 
power supplies. Metal enclosure is finished in compatible silver 
enamel. 

See your nearby Percom dealer or order direct by calling 
toll-free 1 -800-527- 1 592. circi„ *a on inquiry c »rd. 




Five-Inch Disks Store More 
Than Eight-Inch Disks! 



Garland, Texas — June 25, 
1980 — Percom Data Company 
has begun production of a 
double-density disk controller 
adapter for TRS-80* Model I com- 
puters. 

Harold Mauch, president of 
Percom, made that announcement 
here today, saying that data stor- 
age capacity using the adapter and 
double-density disk operating sys- 
tem — which is included — can be 
increased to as much as 354 
Kbytes per minidiskette. 

By comparison, the maximum 
storage for larger eight-inch disk 
systems used with the TRS-80* 

Circle 322 on Inquiry card. 



Model I computer is about 290 
Kbytes. 

Mauch said the PC card adap- 
ter, which plugs into the controller 
chip socket of the computer Ex- 
pansion Interface, works equally 
well for either single-density or 
double-density storage, and users 
may continue to run programs 
under TRSDOS*, OS-80™ and 
other single-density operating sys- 
tems with the adapter installed. 

Price, for the plug-in adapter, 
the TRSDOS*-like double-density 
DOS and a utility for converting 
files and programs from single- to 
double-density format is $219.95. 



BACKGROUNDER 

CRC ERROR! TRACK LOCKED OUT! 

by the Technical Staff 
Percom Data Company 



This problem started while 
we were studying an annoying 
problem with the TRS-80* com- 
puter. Disk drives sold by Percom 
are realigned and tested before 
shipment. We noticed, however, 
that some disk drives would pass 
the Percom inspection but just 
would not work reliably on the 
inner tracks with a TRS-80* com- 
puter. These drives were within 
the manufacturer's specifications, 
and would function perfectly on 
other disk systems Percom man- 
ufactures — "perfectly" here 
meaning more than 50 million 
bytes read without error! 

The disk read data separa- 
tion arrangement in the TRS-80* 
computer Expansion Interface 
uses an internal data separator of 
the FD1771 disk formatter/con- 
troller IC. Use of the FD1771 in- 
ternal data separator is not 
recommended by Western Digital, 
the IC manufacturer. The follow- 
ing note appears on page 17 of 
the FD1771 datasheet: 

Internal data separation 
may work for some appli- 
cations. However, for ap- 
plications requiring high 
data recovery reliability, 
WDC recommends exter- 
nal data separation be 
used. 



PRICES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECTTO CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE. 



We suspected the data 
separator because the problem 
was most severe on disk inner 
tracks where storage density is 
highest and data separation is 
most critical. 

To prove our point, a techni- 
cian breadboarded a standard 
Percom data separator circuit, 
and configured it to plug directly 
into the FD1771 IC socket of the 
TRS-80* computer controller. 

When connected to the 
TRS-80* computer, a trouble- 
some drive functioned perfectly! 
We ran a BACKUP utility many 
times and never got a track lock- 
out. Before we added the external 
data separator circuit to the com- 
puter, this same drive would al- 
ways lock out tracks, and would 
have difficulty reading from the 
inner (higher number) tracks. 

The Percom data separator 
circuit fixes the mini-disk control- 
ler of the TRS-80* computer. The 
type of drives being used is ir- 
relevant; the circuit eliminates 
disk read errors resulting from the 
inability of the Tandy controller 
design to reliably separate clock 
and data signals when reading 
high density inner tracks. 

Circle 323 on Inquiry card. 



PERCOM DATA COMPAMY, IMC. 211 N. Kirby Street Qarland, Texas 75042 (214) 272-3421 

"traiemark o I Percom Data Company, Inc. 'trademark of Tandy Radio Shack Corporation which has no relationship to Percom Data Company. 



An Extremely 

Low-Cost Computer 

Voice Response System 



A computer speech-output system 
can be built which requires no A/D 
(analog-to-digital) or D/A (digital-to- 
analog) converters, no multiple-pole 
filters, no complex hardware, very 
little software, and yet produces 
speech which is quite intelligible even 
to untrained listeners. 

A data rate of 9600 bps (bits per 
second) produces speech quality and 
intelligibility acceptable for most 
hobbyist applications. This means 
that a 400-word vocabulary can be 
stored on one side of a single-density 
8-inch floppy disk, the average word 
duration being 0.5 seconds. Similar- 
ly, the 16 hexadecimal digits, thru 
F, can be spoken from the data stored 
in only 8 K bytes of memory, the 
average word duration for these 
digits being 0.4 seconds. The memory 
need not be high quality, and slow 
memory devices or components with 
a few random bit failures can be used. 
Thus, for limited vocabularies, the 
MIMIC speech processor may be the 
lowest-cost computer speech- 
processing system available. Other 
applications include: 

• two-tone telephone-signal decoding 

• alarm signal 

• automatic word recognition by 
computer (using software pattern 
matching against stored speech 
samples) 

• sound effects 

• computer-generated musical tunes 

• metronome 

• rhythm generator 



James C Anderson 

c/o MIMIC Electronics 

POB 921 

Acton MA 01720 



About the Author 

James C Anderson is a graduate student at 
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He 
is the inventor of the MIMIC speech processor, 
a device similar to the one described in this arti- 
cle, which is manufactured and marketed by 
MIMIC Electronics Company. 



A good deal of redundancy is 
maintained at 9600 bps since, for ex- 
ample, a lower data rate is achievable 
by the linear predictive coding 
method (typically 2400 bps). This im- 
plies that slightly defective memory 
circuits can be used for storing the 
speech, with essentially no degrada- 
tion in speech quality (do not base the 
cost of a speech-storage system on 
high-priced memory). The low cost, 
high reliability, ease of use, and mass- 
producibility of this system make it a 
good choice for consumer products 
such as video games. Imagine what a 
computer could say when it finds 
itself losing a game (onomatopoetic 
responses such as "awww" are also 
possible). 



Sixteen spoken 

words can easily 

be stored In 8 K 

bytes of memory. 

There are basically two reasons 
why speech-storage memory can be 
inexpensive: 

• The manufacturer's yield on perfect 
circuits plus slightly defective circuits 
(those with 1 % of the bits bad) will be 
higher than the yield on perfect cir- 
cuits alone. 

• Memories with slow access times 
can be used. An access time of 10 ms 
is more than adequate, and circuits of 
this sort can be purchased at prices 
far below those of standard semicon- 
ductor memories. 

Hardware 

The technique to be used here is 
called differentiated, infinitely 



clipped, and integrated speech. Figure 
1 on page 38 is a diagram of the essen- 
tial hardware. Model speech is input 
through a microphone and a 
preamplifier (ICl). The unprocessed 
analog-speech signal is then used as 
input to a compressor consisting of an 
operational amplifier (or op amp, 
IC2), two diodes, and two resistors. 

The compressor has a pseudo- 
logarithmic characteristic and greatly 
amplifies low-level signals while 
somewhat attenuating high-level 
signals. In this system, the com- 
pressor acts as a simple automatic 
gain control, making the amplitude of 
the speech signal at the compressor 
output less dependent upon such 
things as the human speaker's voice 
loudness and distance from the 
microphone. 

The output of the compressor goes 
to a simple R/C (resistor/capacitor) 
differentiator which has a pole at ap- 
proximately 8 kHz. The differentiator 
performs quite well over the entire 
range of speech frequencies from 
100 Hz to 5 kHz (300 Hz to 3 kHz is 
considered "telephone quality" band- 
width for speech signals). 

The differentiated analog-speech 
signal is then applied to a comparator 
(IC3) which acts as a zero-crossing 
detector, or infinite clipper, and turns 
the analog speech into a digital bit 
stream. A resistor is in series with the 
noninverting input to compensate for 
the input bias current of the com- 
parator, thus preventing distortion 
due to "center clipping" of the signal. 
Only a small amount of DC offset 
potential in the comparator produces 
a large degradation in speech in- 
telligibility. 

This would complete the speech 
data-input path except for one prob- 
lem: when no speech is present, the 



36 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Speech Processing 

Many techniques now exist for 
speech processing or digitization 
(the encoding, storage or transmis- 
sion, and subsequent decoding of 
data for speech signals). Some 
techniques have definite advan- 
tages over others depending upon 
the application. 

For example, phoneme syn- 
thesizers, which are essentially 
electrical analog models of the 
human vocal tract, can produce 
speech from very low data rates 
(600 bps (bits per second) or less) 
and are often used in systems 
where bandwidth or memory is 
at a premium. By contrast, time- 
domain techniques such as delta 
modulation require greater band- 
width (9600 bps or more) and are 
popular when a mass-storage 
device (eg: a disk drive) is 
available. Time-domain tech- 
niques simply record speech-signal 
parameters as a function of time, 
and may or may not make use of 
human-vocal-tract characteristics 
to help reduce memory or band- 
width requirements. 

Cost constraints often determine 
which type of speech processor 
will be used in a system. Syn- 
thesizers can be costly both in 
terms of the initial hardware in- 
vestment and in the programming 
and testing time required to con- 
vert words into phoneme strings. 
Neither of these costs is likely to be 
reduced significantly. It is often 
more cost-effective to invest in 
equipment of general utility, such 
as a floppy-disk drive, and use a 
low-cost time-domain speech pro- 
cessor. Many forces are acting to 
drive down the cost of mass 
storage. For example, optical 
recording technology has pro- 
duced a 30 cm disk with storage 
capacity of 10 billion bits and data- 
access times compatible with 
speech-processing requirements. 
Assuming the speech data has been 
sampled at a rate of 16,000 bps, 
such a disk can store enough data 
to produce speech continuously for 
more than a week. 

Many of the time-domain tech- 
niques for speech processing have 
significant drawbacks. Pulse code 



modulation, as used in telephone- 
quality systems, requires a high 
data rate (64,000 bps) and is 
therefore seldom considered for 
present-day computer speech ap- 
plications. CVSD (continuously 
variable slope delta) modulation 
produces good-quality speech 
from a 16,000 bps data stream, and 
several manufacturers have recent- 
ly introduced CVSD integrated cir- 
cuits (MC3417 by Motorola, 
HC-55516 by Harris Semiconduc- 
tor, and FX-209 by Consumer 
Microcircuits of America are ex- 
amples). However, all the CVSD 
units are sole-sourced (ie: non- 
interchangeable with other units). 

Each of these components re- 
quires a considerable amount of 
support circuitry for operation, in- 
cluding a power supply, 
microphone preamp, audio power 
amp, and complicated filter s which 
use precision (1%) capacitors and 
resistors. Perhaps the greatest 
drawback to CVSD is the fact that 
the speech data stream which a 
CVSD chip produces is meaningful 
only to another CVSD chip. 

For example, if the highly encod- 
ed CVSD speech data is to be used 
for automatic word recognition, it 
must first be decoded by some 
rather time-consuming software 
before any operations such as fre- 
quency analysis can be performed. 
CVSD data also proves to be dif- 
ficult to "conference" (mix) in com- 
munication networks, when 
several users are talking 
simultaneously to a single listener. 

When time-domain techniques 
are used to store a large 
vocabulary in memory, it often 
becomes a difficult and time- 
consuming task to reproduce the 
words in the vocabulary at the 
same volume level. This occurs 
because it is nearly impossible to 
hold the microphone in the same 
manner and to speak always at the 
same volume level when originally 
recording the vocabulary. It is also 
difficult to add new words to an 
existing vocabulary for the same 
reason. A similar problem arises 
when attempting automatic speech 
recognition with a computer, since 
variations in volume produce 



variations in the speech data pat- 
tern. Such variations must usually 
be eliminated by a lengthy 
amplitude-normalization process 
in software. 

The MIMIC Speech Processor 
presented in this article is a low- 
cost time-domain system which 
has a relatively low bit rate. Using 
only standard components, the 
MIMIC Speech Processor requires 
minimal external hardware for 
operation. The data produced is 
not highly encoded, and is 
therefore easy to analyze and use 
in communication networks. The 
MIMIC Speech Processor auto- 
matically normalizes the amplitude 
of all audio input signals, and is 
therefore not subject to the prob- 
lem of volume variation. 

Speech Intelligibility 

A common method for evaluat- 
ing speech intelligibility is the "ar- 
ticulation test. " Typically, a per- 
son reads a list of syllables or 
unrelated words to an "untrained" 
group of listeners (recognition 
ability improves with practice), 
and the percentage of items iden- 
tified correctly is taken as the ar- 
ticulation score. By choosing test 
material representative of the 
sound statistics of a language, a 
realistic test of the system can be 
made. Word-articulation scores 
for speech which has been differen- 
tiated, infinitely clipped, sampled 
at a 10 kHz rate, and integrated (in 
that order) are in the neigh- 
borhood of 90% for trained 
listeners. 

When words are used in 
sentences, contextual information 
is present which leads to con- 
siderably higher articulation 
scores. To test your system, try 
recording the sentences "Joe took 
father's shoe bench out, " and "She 
was waiting at my lawn." 
Together, these sentences contain 
all of the fundamental sounds in 
the English language that con- 
tribute toward the loudness of 
speech. 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 37 



Figure 1: Speech-processing hardware. 
Model speech information is input 
through a microphone and preamplifier. 
The analog signal is processed by com- 
pressor and differentiator circuits, and is 
then applied to a zero-crossing com- 
parator. The result is a serial data stream 
in which the bit width is modulated to 
reflect the input frequency. A squelch cir- 
cuit is provided to disable the processor 
output when no speech signal is present. 




Ai 



fi 1 



comparator (IC3) puts out unpleasant 
high-frequency noise. This problem is 
overcome by controlling the pro- 
cessed speech-data signal with a 
squelch signal. 

The squelch circuit uses amplitude 
information to shut off the data 
stream through IC4a. When the 
overall magnitude of the unprocessed 
input signal is above a certain 
threshold value, the circuit quickly 
enables the data to pass. Op amp IC5, 
diode Dl, and the R/C output filter 
form an envelope-detector system 
which follows the positive peaks of 
the unprocessed speech signal. A 
comparator with hysteresis (IC6 and 
its voltage-divider feedback network) 
is used to give the squelch circuit a 
fast attack response, but a slow decay 
characteristic. Thus, the differen- 
tiated and infinitely clipped digital 
speech data stream is created, and 
squelched when necessary. 

The processed speech, in the form 
of a bit stream, may then be sampled 
by a computer or other digital hard- 
ware at a rate of approximately 
10 kHz. The information may be 
stored in some type of memory, and 
used later to produce speech. 

To reproduce stored speech, the in- 
formation is dumped at a 10 kbps 
rate. The speech-output hardware is a 
filter consisting of IC4c and an R/C 
network which has a pole at approx- 
imately 16 Hz. The buffer (IC7) feeds 
an AC-coupled power amplifier (IC8) 
with volume control. The speech pro- 
duced by this digital recording system 
has essentially been differentiated 
before storage, then integrated upon 
playback. 

Quality 

Although the storage requirement 
is typically 10,000 bits for each sec- 
ond of speech, the effective amount 
of storage required can be reduced 
somewhat by using phoneme con- 
catenation. For example, the spoken 
word "seven" can be stored as an "s" 
sound plus an "eh-vun" sound. The 
same "s" sound can also be used in 
other words such as "six " ("s" plus 
"ick" plus "s"). Similarly, one record- 
ing of the word "teen" will allow you 
to generate "seventeen" with a simple 
program which outputs "s" plus "eh- 
vun" plus "teen." 

This method, unfortunately, will 
not always produce acceptable 
speech. When "dog" is broken up into 
"duh" plus "aw" plus "guh," the 



38 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



resulting audio does not sound like 
the intended word. This is due to the 
fact that in natural-sounding speech, 
the end of one phoneme often blends 
into the start of the next (but not 
always, as was shown in 
"seventeen"). If all of the phonemes 
are recorded separately, some 
method is needed to blend them 
together — a formidable task. 

The speech quality of this system is 
similar to a single-side-band radio 
signal which is not quite tuned in. 
The speech produced is quite intelligi- 
ble yet rather "mechanical" sounding. 
However, upon listening to speech 
produced by this system, several peo- 
ple have remarked that it "sounds just 
like you'd expect a computer to sound 
when it talks." Thus, it seems to have 
good public acceptance as far as 
quality is concerned. 

Theory 

Why does such a simple system 
work? The answer is not particularly 
simple. However, an understanding 
of the theory can point to methods 
for improving the speech quality and 
can also give a feel for the system's 
limitations. During World War II, it 
was discovered that a large amount of 
peak clipping could be impressed on a 
speech signal with the speech re- 
maining at least moderately intelligi- 
ble. 

Infinite clipping is a process which 
preserves only the zero-amplitude 
axis-crossing information of the 
speech waveform (ie: the process tells 
us whether the signal is positive or 
negative). The intelligibility of an in- 
finitely clipped speech signal can be 



dramatically improved if the clipper 
is preceded by a differentiator circuit. 
A simplified conceptual diagram of 
the hardware is presented in figure 2, 
which omits the squelch circuit. The 
system input /(f) in figure 2 cor- 
responds to the compressor output 
(IC2) of figure 1. 



The spoken word 
"seven" can be 
stored as an "s" 

sound plus an 
"eh-vun" sound. 



Mathematically, taking the 
derivative of a function and equating 
it to zero yields the local maxima and 
minima (peaks and valleys) of the 
original function. For example, 
assume that the system input in figure 
2 is a sine wave, /i(f), as shown in 
figure 3a on page 40. This sine wave 
is differentiated so that the cosine 
wave, /1(f), of figure 3b is present at 
the input to the comparator. Notice 
that whenever /[(f) equals zero, as at 
f = 7r/2, the original function f t (t) is at 
a peak or a valley. 

In the next step of processing, the 
comparator acts as an infinite clipper. 
The comparator output is high when 
/'(f) is greater than zero, which means 
that the original function /(f) has a 
positive slope and is rising from a 
valley to a peak. Similarly, for /'(f) 
less than zero, the comparator output 
is low, which means /(f) is going from 
a peak to a valley. When /'(f) equals 



zero, a critical point is occurring and 
the comparator output is changing. 
The comparator output is an infinite- 
ly clipped version of /'(f) as shown in 
figure 3c. This may be sampled and 
stored as digital information. 

An approximation to the original 
function /(f) can be obtained by in- 
tegrating the stored digital informa- 
tion (see figure 3d). Note that only a 
triangular-type waveform can be ob- 
tained at the integrator output 
because the input to the integrator is 
always a bivariate (two-level) 
waveform. However, a triangle wave 
is a close approximation to a sine 
wave. In fact, the triangle wave of 
figure 3d is given in Fourier-series 
form as: 



(4/7r) [sin f 
(l/25)sin 5f 
+ ...)] 



(l/9)sin 3f + 
(l/49)sin It 



The components other than the fun- 
damental (sin f) can be considered as 
contributions to distortion and can be 
reduced by filtering. In general, a DC 
offset may also be present, but any 
offset can easily be eliminated in the 
actual implementation simply by us- 
ing AC-coupled amplifiers. In sum- 
mary, the system of figure 2 will pro- 
vide a triangle wave which can only 
approximate the original sine wave. 

Amplitude Decoding 

In the system of figure 2, the fre- 
quency of the "reconstructed" wave- 
form (at the output) will be the same 
as the original input frequency. 
However, the output waveform's 



-31- 



>f(u 




SAMPLE BIT STREAM 
AT 10 kHz RATE 



111 



STORE DATA 
IN MEMORY 



OUTPUT BIT STREAM 
AT 10 kHz RATE 



COMPARATOR 



COMPUTER 



T 

X 



^> + 



f'tt) 
if cm 



-O- 



DIFFERENTIATOR 



INTEGRA TOR 



Figure 2: Diagram of the processing concept. This simplified diagram omits the squelch and compressor stages of figure 1. The process 
is easy to follow: any analog input is differentiated and clipped before storage as a digital bit stream; upon playback, the bit stream is 
simply integrated to recover the original waveform information. 



February 1961 © BYTE Publications Inc 39 








1 



n 



\y\y\/\X\ 



40 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 





Figure 3: The basic process is illustrated 
on the first four waveforms. If a sine wave 
(a) is fed to the processor (fM =sin t), the 
wave will be differentiated to produce a 
cosine wave (b) (f[(t)=cos t). Notice that 
the cosine wave crosses zero whenever the 
sine reaches a peak. This is also reflected 
in the output of the infinite clipper stage 
(c) where the waveform may be expressed 
as: f'M/\f[(t)\. At this point, the infor- 
mation may be stored digitally. An ap- 
proximation of the original signal (f(t)) 
can be obtained by integrating the stored 
information to produce (d): 



f'M 



dt 



Although the output waveform has the 
same frequency , the amplitude is not 
always accurately reproduced, since the 
comparator has a constant amplitude out- 
put regardless of input signal level. If the 
signal shown in (e) is fed to the speech 
processor (f 2 (t) = sin 6.5t), the differen- 
tiator will produce the wave of (f) 
(f' 2 (t) = 6.5cos 6.5t). The zero-crossing 
comparator produces the square wave of 
(g) (fi(t)/\fi(t)\), which may be recorded 
quite accurately. When this information is 
played back, the wave of (h) will be pro- 
duced: 



f'M 



dt 



The amplitude is reduced because the 
integrator stage is essentially a low-pass 
filter. The same process is performed on 
more complex waveforms as shown: 

(i) h(t) = sin t + — sin(6.5t + 2.3) 
6.5 

(J) f'i(t) = cos t + cos(6.5t + 2.3) 

fM 



(k) fL,ppJt) 



\W\ 



(!) \Hc t ,„Jt)dt = i~ 
J \fl 



m) 



\M)\ 



dt 



Note that the overall wave shape and 
relative amplitudes are well preserved. 




1 2 3 



amplitude will diminish as the fre- 
quency increases; and it will do so 
regardless of the input amplitude. For 
example, assume that the input to the 
system is / 2 (f) = sin 6.5t, as shown in 
figure 3e. The output of the differen- 
tiator is then /2(f) = 6.5 cos 6.5t, 
which is a large-amplitude cosinusoid 
(see figure 3f). This signal is applied 
to the comparator and the square 
wave of figure 3g results, with an 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



41 



amplitude independent of the input- 
signal amplitude. 

The square-wave signal is now run 
through an integrator, which 
drastically diminishes the amplitude 
of the signal (see figure 3h). This is so 
because an integrator acts as a low- 
pass filter, and causes a signal's 
amplitude to diminish in inverse pro- 
portion to its frequency (ie: it at- 
tenuates higher frequencies by 20 dB 
per decade of increase in frequency). 
Thus, the amplitude of f 2 (t) was not 
preserved in the reconstruction, even 
though the frequency was. 



The clipped-speech 

approach presents 

an alternative to 

more complex 

and costly systems. 



We can get an accurate reconstruc- 
tion of both frequency and relative 
amplitude only if we guarantee that 
the input waveform will diminish in 
amplitude as a function of its frequen- 



Listing 1: The author's MIMIC driver. Assembled on Cromemco's CDOS for Z80s, this 
routine should work equally well on any 8080-based microcomputer. As noted in the 
comments at the top, this software should produce a 10 kbps data rate for systems with 
a 2 MHz clock. 







0001 


EXAMPLE: 


MIMIC DRIVER PROGRAM 






0002 


8080 OR Z80 INSTRUCTIONS 






0003 


ASSUMES 4 K OF MEMORY AT LOCATIONS TO FFF 






0004 


ASSUMES MIMIC INTERFACED AT PORT B3 HEX 






0005 


ASSUMES 2 MHZ CPU CLOCK 






0006 


RESULTING SPEECH DATA RATE IS 10 KHZ 






0007 










0000 




0008 




ORG 





PROGRAM STARTS AT ZERO 


0000 


214800 


0009 


/IN 


LD 


HL.BUF 


ADDRESS BUFFER MEMORY 


0003 


0E08 


0010 




LD 


C,8 


INITIALIZE BITCOUNT 


0005 


DBB3 


0011 


vM 


IN 


A.0B3H 


DIG OUT ACTIVE? 


0007 


17 


0012 




RLA 




CHECK FOR BIT 7 SET 


0008 


DA0500 


0013 




JP 


C.V1 


WAIT FOR IT 


000B 


DBB3 


0014 ' 


72 


IN 


A.0B3H 


GET DATA BIT FROM MIMIC 


000D 


IF 


0015 




RRA 




SHIFT BIT ZERO INTO CARRY 


000E 


7E 


0016 




LD 


A,(HL) 


GET DATA BYTE 


000F 


IF 


0017 




RRA 




PUT BIT INTO BYTE 


0010 


77 


0018 




LD 


(HL),A 


STORE DATA IN BUFFER 


0011 


0D 


0019 




DEC 


C 


COUNT BIT 


0012 


C21E00 


0020 




IP 


NZ.V3 


DONE WITH BYTE? 


0015 


0E08 


0021 




LD 


C,8 


RESET BITCOUNT 


0017 


23 


0022 




INC 


HL 


MOVE POINTER 


0018 


7C 


0023 




LD 


A,H 


SET UP FOR COMPARE 


0019 


FE10 


0024 




CP 


010H 


AT 4 K BOUNDARY? 


001B 


CA2400 0025 




JP 


Z.VOT 


YES, NOW PLAY BACK DATA 


001E 


CD4100 


0026 ' 


73 


CALL DEL 


100 MICROSECOND WAIT 


0021 


C30B00 


0027 
0028 




JP 


V2 


LOOP AGAIN 


0024 


214800 


0029 


</OT 


LD 


HL.BUF 


ADDRESS BUFFER MEMORY 


0027 


0E08 


0030 




LD 


C,8 


SET BITCOUNT 


0029 


7E 


0031 ' 


/T2 


LD 


A,(HL) 


GET DATA BITS 


002A 


D3B3 


0032 




OUT 


0B3H.A 


OUTPUT DATA TO MIMIC 


002C 


OF 


0033 




RRCA 


ROTATE BITS IN DATA BYTE 


002D 


77 


0034 




LD 


(HL),A 


STORE DATA BYTE 


002E 


0D 


0035 




DEC 


C 


COUNT BIT 


002F 


C23B00 


0036 




JP 


NZ.VT3 


DONE WITH BYTE? 


0032 


0E08 


0037 




LD 


C,8 


RESET BITCOUNT 


0034 


23 


0038 




INC 


HL 


MOVE POINTER 


0035 


7C 


0039 




LD 


A,H 


SET UP FOR COMPARE 


0036 


FE10 


0040 




CP 


010H 


AT 4 K BOUNDARY? 


0038 


CA2400 


0041 




JP 


Z.VOT 


YES, REPEAT AD INFINITUM 


003B 


CD4100 0042 ' 


/T3 


CALL DEL 


100 MICROSECOND WAIT 


003E 


C32900 


0043 
0044 




JP 


VT2 


LOOP AGAIN 


0041 


0609 


0045 


DEL 


LD 


B,9 


CALIBRATE CONSTANT FOR ] 


0043 


05 


0046 


D2 


DEC 


B 




0044 


C24300 


0047 




JP 


NZ.D2 


LOOP UNTIL DONE 


0047 


C9 


0048 
0049 




RET 






0048 


00 


0050 
0051 


3UF 


NOP 




START OF BUFFER MEMORY 


0049 


(0000) 


0052 




END 







cy. For example, (l/a)sin(af) is such a 
signal, when a is an arbitrary real 
(nonzero) constant. Thus, if we had 
applied (l/6.5)sin 6.5f to the system 
(instead of just sin 6.5f as in the 
previous example), the output would 
have been a reconstructed waveform 
of both proper frequency and 
amplitude. 

The system of figure 2 is therefore 
limited to reconstruction of signals 
which fall off in amplitude by 
20 dB/decade. Figures 3i, 3j, 3k, and 
31 show what the system does to a 
more complicated signal which meets 
the restriction. The important thing 
to note is that the wave shape (and 
hence the frequency content) of the 
original signal is faithfully repro- 
duced, and the relative amplitudes 
are maintained. 

Speech signals (eg: a voltage 
waveform produced by a microphone 
whose output is linearly proportional 
to pressure) generally have amplitude 
components which drop off as a func- 
tion of frequency by about 20 dB/ 
decade. This is true for both short- 
term (125 ms) and long-term (a 
minute or so) measurements. Hence, 
one would expect the system of figure 
2 to be capable of reproducing fairly 
natural-sounding speech which, in- 
deed, it does. 

Actually, differentiated-clipped 
speech is just as intelligible as 
differentiated-clipped-integrated 
speech (ie: no new information is pro- 
duced by simply integrating the 
bivariate waveform at the com- 
parator output), but it is very 
unpleasant to listen to. Some types of 
music can also be recorded using this 
system, with recognizable melodies 
and harmonies. 

Distortion 

Distortion may come from several 
different locations in this system of 
speech recording and playback. If, 
for example, the input signal does not 
have components which fall off in 
amplitude by exactly 20 dB/decade, 
there is no hope for an "exact" 
playback using the circuit of figure 1. 
This situation arises when several 
persons are speaking simultaneously 
at different levels of loudness. The 
voices tend to mask or distort each 
other. A similar situation occurs 
when one person talks in a noisy en- 
vironment. Another source of distor- 
tion comes from the fact that the 
system can produce only ramp-type 



42 February I'M © BYTE Publications Inc 



waveforms at its output, no matter 
what the input looks like. 

With additional hardware and soft- 
ware, these problems can be greatly 
overcome, resulting in an improve- 
ment in speech quality. If, instead of 
a simple squelch circuit, the slowly 
varying amplitude-envelope signal is 
sampled with an A/D converter, and 
if this data is used to amplitude- 
modulate the constant-level clipped 
speech signal when it is reproduced 
for output, the quality of the signal is 
improved. However, the overall data 
rate required is approximately 
15,000 bps, and requires additional 
hardware. The system of figure 1 is 
about the best we can do in terms of 
simplicity and cost when it comes to 
low-bandwidth speech processing. 

Sample Rates 

If one is to use clipped speech as a 
digital recording technique, distor- 
tion due to a finite sampling rate must 
be considered. Figure 1 shows a 
typical system for recording a 
vocabulary of selected words which 
may later be used for computer voice 
response. Experiments have shown 
that highly intelligible speech can be 
obtained with a sampling rate of 
about 10 kHz. Note that this sam- 
pling rate is an experimental result 
and has nothing to do with the well- 
known sampling theorem, which 
states that the rate of sampling must 
be at least twice the highest frequency 
to be recorded, in order to ensure an 
accurate reproduction. Here we are 
essentially sampling a square wave, 
which is not a band-limited signal. 

To understand why the 10 kHz 
sampling rate is adequate, consider 
the fact that the human ear loses 
resolution at high frequencies. For ex- 
ample, the note A above middle C 
has a fundamental frequency of 440 
Hz. The next note above it (A sharp) 
has a frequency of 440 X 1 \[1 , or ap- 
proximately 466 Hz. The highest A 
on the piano, which is 3 octaves 
above 440 Hz, has a frequency of 
2 3 X440 or approximately 3520 Hz. 
Similarly, the highest A sharp has a 
frequency of 2 3 X 466, about 3729 Hz. 

The difference between 440 Hz and 
466 Hz sounds the same as the dif- 
ference between 3520 Hz and 3729 
Hz, even though the actual frequency 
difference is 26 Hz versus 209 Hz. 
Thus, our ability to resolve frequen- 
cies deteriorates rapidly with increas- 
ing frequency. In the case of clipped 



speech, time quanta of about 0.1 ms 
are adequate and the ear cannot easi- 
ly discern errors introduced in the fre- 
quencies which are reproduced. 
Sampling clipped speech at rates 
much higher than, say, 20 kHz mere- 
ly wastes computer memory while of- 
fering no appreciable improvement in 
speech quality. 

Final Note 

It appears that clipped speech 
techniques can be used in cases where 
a limited-vocabulary computer voice 
response is needed. In terms of 
simplicity, ease of implementation, 
and low cost, it is probably optimal. 
For persons on limited budgets such 
as students, hobbyists, and even pro- 
fessional electrical engineers (who see 
applications for computer speech out- 
put but would have trouble justifying 
a large investment), the clipped- 
speech approach presents an alter- 
native to more complex and costly 
systems. ■ 



References 

1 . Flanagan, J L. Speech Analysis, Syn- 
thesis, and Perception. New York: Academic 
Press Inc, 1965, pages 137 thru 139, 238 thru 
240, and 270 thru 273. 

2. Fletcher, Harvey. "Some Physical 
Characteristics of Speech and Music." The 
Bell System Technical Journal, July 1931, 
pages 349 thru 373. 

3. Graeme, Tobey, and Huelsman. Opera- 
tional Amplifiers. Burr-Brown, McGraw-Hill 
Book Co, 1971, pages 267 thru 268. 

4. Licklider, J C R. "The Intelligibility of 
Amplitude-Dichotomized, Time-Quantized 
Speech Waves." The Journal of the 
Acoustical Society of America, Volume 22, 
Number 6, November 1950, pages 820 thru 
823. 

5. Licklider, J C R, and G A Miller. "The 
Perception of Speech." Handbook of Ex- 
perimental Psychology, pages 1040 thru 
1074. Psychological Abstracts, Volume 25, 
8040, December 1951. 

6. Licklider, J C R and Irwin Pollack. "Effects 
of Differentiation, Integration, and Infinite 
Peak Clipping upon the Intelligibility of 
Speech." The Journal of the Acoustical 
Society of America, Volume 20, Number 1, 
January 1948, pages 42 thru 51. 

7. Young, L L and Jeanette Goodman. "The 
Effects of Peak Clipping on Speech In- 
telligibility in the Presence of a Competing 
Message." IEEE Acoustics, Speech & Signal 
Processing, 1977, pages 216 thru 218. 



Attention 

BOTE 

Readers: 

Would You 

Like To Write For 

onComputing? 

The amount of intriguing new- 
software and hardware appear- 
ing on the personal-computing 
market has increased dramati- 
cally in the past few months. 
onComputing is looking for well- 
written software and hardware 
reviews about small-business 
programs and systems, games, 
scientific programs, simulations, 
and even "homebrew" pro- 
grams created by our readers. 

If you're a good writer, 
onComputing is interested in 
your opinions. We are looking 
for concise reviews written with 
the nonspecialist in mind — no 
computer jargon, please (unless 
you explain it completely in the 
review). 

Do you have an interesting 
application for your personal 
computer? We'd like to hear 
about it, too! 

All submissions should be 
typed and double-spaced. Pay- 
ment is made at a rate of up to 
$50 per magazine page. Send 
your manuscript today. It may be 
just what our readers have been 
waiting for! 

Send for our free information 
sheet about review guidelines to: 

Review Guidelines 
Chris Morgan 
Editor-in-Chief 
onComputing 
70 Main St 
Peterborough NH 03458 

(Unsolicited manuscripts should 
be accompanied by a stamped, 
self -addressed envelope.) 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 43 



Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar 



A Computer-Controlled Tank 



Steve Ciarcia 

POB 582 

Glastonbury CT 06033 



My guess is that when you first 
scanned the title of this article and a 
few of the photos, you immediately 
recognized Milton-Bradley's Big 
Trak. Perhaps it was one of the gifts 
your children received during the 
holidays. 

Big Trak, shown in photo 1, is a 



Copyright © 1981 by Steven A Garcia. 
All rights reserved 



computer-controlled, motorized toy 
tank. Commands to move, to turn, 
and to fire the "photon cannon" are 
programmed by a user (via a keypad) 
into the tank's control system. After 
the user presses the "Go" key, Big 
Trak takes off, executing the stored 
command sequence. 

Big Trak's keypad contains a key 
for each command. Some commands 
are completed with a single key- 



stroke, while other commands re- 
quire multiple keystrokes for the 
entry of parameters. A list of com- 
mand functions appears in table 1. 

Commands may be chained and 
carried out sequentially. For example, 
pressing the sequence: Forward, 2, 
Left, 3, 0, Hold, 1, 0, Fire, 3, Go, 
causes the tank to drive forward 2 
feet, pivot 180°, wait 1 second, and 
then fire three cannon blasts. This se- 




Photo 1: The Big Trak microprocessor-controlled, user-programmable tank, sold by the Milton-Bradley Company. 

44 Febiuaiy 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



quence is four commands. Big Trak 
can hold sixteen commands. 

Considering this month's Circuit 
Cellar title and the description thus 
far, you may think this article is 
about Big Trak and the microcom- 
puter control system it employs. You 
are half right. Big Trak is indeed the 
tank mentioned in the title. However, 
the word "Computer" in "Computer- 
Controlled Tank" refers to your per- 
sonal computer, rather than the 
microprocessor inside the tank! 

For a long time I have been in- 
terested in robotics. I have always 
fantasized about building a robot to 
do simple tasks. I am sure that many 
others have similar interests. Unfor- 
tunately, due to the high expense and 
the mechanical expertise required, 
most of us never get beyond the idea 
stage. 

Playing with Big Trak is a tease. It 
is not a robot, nor can it be converted 
into one. However, it has features 
that are fascinating as well as ag- 
gravating for robot-building pro- 
crastinators like myself. Big Trak has 
a control system that memorizes com- 
mands and coordinates a mechanical 
drive. It converts simple keystrokes 
into complex movements combined 
with light and sound effects. 

While the microprocessor program 
that controls the tank is interesting, it 
is the price/performance ratio of the 
mechanism that is impressive. Big 
Trak incorporates a two-wheel/two- 
motor gearbox. The wheels turn syn- 
chronously for forward or backward 
motion and contrariwise for turns. 
Left and right turns are precisely 
definable (to a resolution of 1 part in 
60). This drive mechanism would 
take many hours to fabricate if you 
were building it from scratch. 

For die-hard robotics types, this is 
kid stuff. EXACTLY! But, to some- 
one with just a passing interest, the 
capabilities of this $50 toy are fasci- 
nating. With a little ingenuity, it 
could serve as a test bed for robot en- 
thusiasts on a tight budget. It could 
also serve as a school project combin- 
ing programming and actual control 
of a mechanical device. 

If only it could be linked with a 
larger computer and remotely con- 
trolled! 

This idea sounded like a fun pro- 
ject, so I decided to write an article on 
converting Big Trak to remote con- 
trol. The result is an interface that 
allows complete wireless control of 



the tank's operation from your com- 
puter keyboard. Virtually no modifi- 
cation is required to your computer if 
it already incorporates a serial I/O 
(input/output) port and 300 bps (bits 
per second) modem. 

Writing the control program isn't 
hard. Commands are communicated 
as LPRINT CHR$(X) statements in 
BASIC. (For example, an LPRINT 
CHR$(81) fires the photon cannon.) 
A program which demonstrates this is 
included. (See listing 1.) 

At the other end of the link, a cir- 
cuit is installed in the tank to receive 
control commands from your com- 
puter and simulate the user pressing 
the keypad. This is not a specialized 
interface applicable only to Big Trak; 
the receiver has useful applications 
elsewhere. It is designed in two sec- 



tions: a tank interface specifically for 
this application and a general-use 
wireless receiver/demodulator. The 
receiver/demodulator can easily 
serve as a wireless serial RS-232C ex- 
tension for your computer in other 
applications. Don't care to string 
wires for a printer located in another 
room? Use this receiver interface up 
to 200 yards from the computer. 

All this will be explained in detail, 
but first, back to Big Trak. 

Inside Big Trak 

Big Trak gets its control capability 
from a TI (Texas Instruments) 
TMSlOOO-series 4-bit micropro- 
cessor. This single 28-pin CMOS 
(complementary metal-oxide semi- 
conductor) integrated circuit contains 
programmable user memory, ROM 



Single Entry: 
Test 
Clr 
CIs 
Ck 
Go 



— Tests tank operation by moving and tiring cannon 

— Erase all previous command entries 

— Erase last entry only 

— Execute last command entry immediately 

— Execute complete command sequence 



Multiple Entry: 

Backward/Forward 

Turn (Left/Right) 

Fire 

Hold 

Repeat 



— How far? Enter 1 to 99 feet. 

— How much? Enter 2-digit turn value. 

— How many shots? Enter 1 to 99 shots. 

— How long? Enter 0.1 to 9.9 seconds. 

— How many steps back? Enter 1 to 15. 



Table 1: Summary of commands as entered on Big Trak's keypad. Some commands 
are completed with a single keystroke, while other commands require multiple key- 
strokes (to enter qualifying data, such as how far to travel). The actual Big Trak key- 
pad is shown in photo 3. 








.» .4, 1,11.1 XI. J HUIlJillllJ 

Haifa!* t 




Photo 2: The microprocessor control system inside Big Trak. The 28-pin integrated cir- 
cuit is a TI TMSlOOO-series 4-bit microprocessor. The smaller package is a hex digit 
driver used in this application to power the various tank functions. 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Die 45 



R8-*- 
R94- 



R10-*- 

GND 

Kl 

KZ 

K4 

K8 — 

INIT 

074- 
064- 



054- 

04 4- 

034- 



"W 



28 
27 
26 
25 
24 
23 
22 
21 
20 
19 
18 
17 
16 
15 



TMS1000/ 
TMS1100 



-»-R7 
-►■R6 
-»-R5 



► R4 
►R3 
►R2 



*-Rl 

»-R0 

•► 9V 

4 OSC 2 

4 0SC1 

»-00 

»-01 



-♦02 



Figure 1: Pin usage of the 77 TMS1000 
4-bit microprocessor. The TMSlOOO-series 
processors all have the same instruction 
set, differing in the number of pins used 
for I/O and in the amount of memory 
contained in the package. 



Pin Name 

K1,K2,K3,K4 
OO thru 07 
RO thru R10 
0SC1, 0SC2 
INIT 


Description 

data input 
data output 
control output 
timing 
power-on reset 


Type 

input 

limited code output 

output 

input (resistor/capacitor) 

input 





PIN 23 



Q Q A A A C 



PIN 8<3~ 



PIN 7<C3~ 



PIN 6<^]- 



>X 

-L 



OUT 



X 



°X 

X 



•x 

X 



=x 

X 



-x 

X 



•X 

X 



X 



•x 

X 



•X 

X 



•X 

X 



•X 

X 



»x 

X 



-X 

X 



-X 

X 



CLS 



°x 

X 



>x 

X 



'X 

-1 



1 



°x 

X 



CLR 



'X 

X 



FIRE 



*x 

X 



°x 

X 



HOLD 



X 

I 



PIN 5<CJ- 



Figure 2: Schematic diagram of the Big Trak's keypad matrix. The column lines are 
connected to the R-series output pins on the TMS1000, and the row lines are connected 
to the K-series input pins. The physical structure of the keypad can be seen in photo 4. 



(read-only memory), and I/O capa- 
bility. The low cost (under $1 in large 
quantities) makes this the product of 
choice for many simple applications 
such as computer games and ap- 
pliance controls. 

The TMS1000 microprocessor 
series is actually a family of fifty-odd 
devices. They all share a common in- 
struction set. The differences are the 
number of I/O pins and the amount 
of on-board memory. The package of 
Big Trak's 28-pin microprocessor, 
shown in photo 2, is marked only 
with a "house" number. It is most 
likely either a TMS1000 or a 
TMS1100. The only difference be- 
tween these two components is the 
amount of memory they contain. The 
TMS1000 has 1 K bytes of ROM and 
32 bytes of programmable memory, 
while the TMS1100 has twice as much 
of each memory. 

As shown in figure 1, the micropro- 
cessor has four dedicated input lines 
and nineteen dedicated output lines 
(OO thru 07 and RO thru RIO). The 
eight data outputs, OO thru 07, are 
wired in an unusual way and can be 
set to only 32 out of the usual 256 



values possible with an 8-bit code. 
This is because the O-series outputs 
receive only the 4-bit values from the 
accumulator and the status flag (1 bit) 
as inputs. The enabled range of the 32 
values (out of the 256) is mask-pro- 
grammed during manufacture of the 



The "wireless ex- 
tension cord" can be 
used with other 
peripheral devices 
besides Big Trak. 



circuitry on the silicon chip. 

The R-series output lines, on the 
other hand, are treated as eleven con- 
trol outputs. Each R output line can 
be set or cleared individually. 

The Big Trak uses these lines to 
read input data from the keypad, gen- 
erate sound effects, light up the 
"photon cannon," and coordinate the 
operation of the two motors. 

Because the TMS1000 is a low- 



power device (about 90 mW), it can- 
not directly drive a motor. A second 
integrated circuit (an SN75494) and a 
few transistors facilitate the connec- 
tion. The 75494 is a hex digit driver 
primarily intended to interface 
CMOS devices to common-cathode- 
configured LEDs (light-emitting 
diodes). While the tank uses no LEDs, 
the 150 mA drive-current capability 
of the 75494 makes it particularly 
suitable in this application. 

Connection of the keypad (shown 
in photo 3) to the microprocessor is 
straightforward. The keypad is ac- 
tually a matrix of processor I/O lines. 
Outputs RO thru R5 and inputs Kl, 
K2, K4, and K8 form a 4 by 6 matrix 
(only twenty-three keys are func- 
tional — the In key has no contacts) as 
shown in figure 2. The K signals are 
the rows, and the R signals are the 
columns. 

Such a keypad operates on a 
scanned-matrix principle. The pro- 
cessor alternately places a signal on 
each R line and reads the four inputs 
for any completed circuit (which 
shows a key being pressed). Entering 
a command, therefore, is simply a 



46 February 19S1 © BYTE Publications Inc 



The Big Trak can 

serve as a test bed for 

robot enthusiasts on a 

tight budget. 



process of shorting one of the cross 
points of the matrix. 

The keypad has no springs, mag- 
nets, or raised buttons. It is nothing 
more than two photo-etched plastic 
sheets with conductive traces, 
separated by a thin insulator. At the 
cross points of the matrix, the in- 
sulator has a cutout. Any pressure on 
the keypad surface over this point 
flexes the plastic and shorts the two 
contacts, completing the circuit. 
Photo 4 shows the structure of the 
keypad. 

Practically speaking, any connec- 
tion between a column and a row of 
the matrix will be perceived as a valid 
data input to the processor. For ex- 
ample, if you use a clip lead to con- 
nect pins 8 and 26 on the processor 
package, it will accept this as a Go 
command and commence operation. 
This concept is the premise of my 
remote-control circuit. 

External Keyboard Control 

Remote control of Big Trak starts 
with an interface that attaches to the 
processor and functions in place of 
the keypad. Figure 3 shows the sche- 
matic diagram of a circuit that does 
this. The prototype is shown installed 
over the processor board in the tank. 
(See photo 5.) Its location with 
respect to the tank layout is better 
shown in photo 6. 

The integrated circuits IC2 and IC3 
are 8-channel type-CD4051 CMOS 
multiplexers. The 6 matrix column 
lines are attached to IC2, and the 4 
row lines are connected to IC3. The 
selection of 1 of the 6 column lines 
and 1 of the 4 row lines is determined 
by the address-input lines A, B, and C 
on each integrated circuit. A total of 5 
address bits are required. While a six- 
conductor cable (5 bits of data and 
ground) strung between the computer 
and the tank for parallel communica- 
tions would work, it is hardly effi- 
cient as remote control. Serial com- 
munication is better, for a number of 
reasons. 

The components ICl, IC4, and IC5 
function as a 300 bps serial-to-parallel 




Photo 3: Commands are entered into Big Irak's memory through this keypad on the 
top of the tank. 



converter which operates on 9 V 
(note the use of the General Instru- 
ment AY-3-1014A UART, a universal 
asynchronous receiver/ transmitter). 
Data comes into pin 20 of IC3 at 300 
bps where it is reconverted to parallel 
format. Bits thru 2 (DO thru D2) go 
to IC2, and bits 4 and 5 (D4 and D5) 
go to IC3. The choice is not arbitrary. 
By selecting these particular bits as 
the address inputs, the CMOS switch- 
es can be set by binary codes that cor- 
respond to ASCII (American Stan- 
dard Code for Information Inter- 
change) characters. This makes the 



interface more flexible, since its func- 
tions can be exercised directly 
through characters output by use of 
the CHR$(X) function in the BASIC 
language. The necessary codes are 
common, printable characters and 
will not interfere with machine opera- 
tion. (In some BASICs, the CHR$(X) 
function can cause strange things to 
occur, depending upon the value of 
X. In my computer system, sending a 
CHR$(127) clears the screen and 
resets the cursor.) Choosing printable 
codes also aids troubleshooting. 
Table 2 lists the twenty-three codes 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 47 



used in this interface. For example, 
sending an "R" (with the output state- 
ment LPRINT CHR$(82)) tells the 
tank to make a right turn. 

Oscillator IC5 (a 555 timer) is 
tuned for 4800 Hz. This sets the com- 
munication data rate at 300 bps. A 
rate of 110 bps is set by changing the 
oscillator frequency to 1760 Hz. 

Operation is straightforward. The 
UART is hard-wired for 8 bits of 



data, no parity bit, and 1 stop bit. 
When a character is received, the 
data-output line becomes active and 
the DAV (data available) line goes 
high. One section of IC4 s erves to 
delay the reset pulse to the RDAV 
(reset data available) input. This pro- 
duces a 10 ms strobe signal which 
closes the CMOS switches. (While the 
data rate may be 300 bps, time must 
be allotted between characters to 




Photo 4: A rear view of the keypad, showing its construction. The keypad consists of 
two plastic sheets containing photo-etched conductors separated by a layer of insula- 
tion. At the locations of the function keys, the insulation has a circular cutout through 
which the two conductive layers can touch when pressure is applied. 




Photo 5: The prototype of the Big Trak control interface of figure 3. It is mounted on 
top of the tank's processor board and is powered by the tank's 9 V battery. The inter- 
face contains a 300 bps serial-to-parallel converter which directs the operation of the 
CMOS switches attached across the keypad matrix. 



allow the tank control system to re- 
spond. The effective data rate is more 
like five commands per second.) 
Whatever points were addressed on 
IC2 and IC3 will be electrically con- 
nected. The tank will then either store 
or execute the command, depending 
upon what it is. 

Functionally speaking, you could 
stop right now. If you don't mind a 
two-wire cord running from your 
computer to the tank, you can con- 
trol it with just the circuit so far 
described. Simply set your serial out- 
put port at 300 bps and feed its signals 
directly to pin 9 of IC4 in the inter- 
face. This, in fact, was the way I had 
to test the circuit before I went on to 
the next step. 

Constructing a "Wireless 
Extension Cord" 

The next step is, of course, the real 
fun part of this project. Since we can 
now command the tank through 
serial-character transmissions, it is 
only natural to consider eliminating 
the wire and using wireless com- 
munication. 

Let's take stock. We have a tank 
that for all practical purposes is 
remote-controlled. All we have to do 
is send TTL (transistor-transistor 
logic)- or CMOS-level serial char- 
acters to it. These characters, in turn, 
come from BASIC LPRINT CHR$(X) 
statements, the output of which is 
transmitted serially. On the computer 
side, we have a serial output, and on 
the tank side we have a serial input. 
Connecting the two requires an "ex- 
tension cord," either physical or 
ethereal. 

One method, shown in the block 
diagram of figure 4, uses radio trans- 
mission. The approach is not as 
strange as it might initially seem. The 
serial output from your computer is 
FSK (frequency-shift keyed) modu- 
lated and transmitted. Somewhere at 
a remote location, a receiver picks up 
this transmission and demodulates it. 
The reconstructed serial data is fed in- 
to the remote device, in our case, the 
Big Trak control interface. 

Please note the following: because 
this interface uses standard serial- 
data rates and voltage levels, any 
wireless communication device we 
design to accommodate computer/ 
Big Trak communication will also 
work for any other similar-rate com- 
munication. The computer doesn't 
know whether it is "talking" to a tank 



48 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Meet ttie Tiger with 
a biager bite. 



Introducing the remarkable 132-column 
Paper Tiger™ 560. The first full-width matrix 
printer to give you fully formed characters 
for a low $1695.* 

The new 560 features a staggered nine- 
wire ballistic type print head that overlaps 
dots in both horizontal and vertical planes. 
It bi-directionally prints up to 150 dense, text 
quality characters per second. 

The 560 also features a reliable cartridge 
ribbon that lasts up to four times as long 



presents a breakthrough in matrix printini 
ering the user excellent print quality wit! 
ce of a matrix printer. Employing a uniq 
red column" head manufactured by Integr 
creates high quality printouts by overla 



Paper Tiger 560 Print Sample 

as spool and cassette ribbons, separate 
heavy-duty stepper motors to drive the print 
head and advance the paper, plus true 
tractor feed. 

And famous Paper Tiger performance 
comes with every new 560. Like fixed or 
proportionately spaced text, programmable 
tabbing and business forms control, auto- 
matic text justification, print formats to 220 



columns, parallel and serial interfaces, self- 
diagnostics, and more. All inside the most 
compact printer of its kind. 

Need more stripes? Dotplot ,™ our high- 
resolution raster graphics package, is stan- 
dard on every 560. 

For data processing, word processing 
and small business applications, this is your 
Tiger. The business-sized Paper Tiger™ 560. 

It's a Tiger you can count on. 

Call TOLL FREE 800-258-1386 (In New 
Hampshire, Alaska and Hawaii, call 
603-673-9100.) Or write: Integral Data 
Systems, Inc., Milford, NH 03055. 




Tiger 560 

■Up) Jlntegral Data Systems, Inc. 



'Suggested U.S. retail price. 



Circle 27 on inquiry card. 



"PIN 21^} 



5.1 K 

YPICAL FOR 6) 




CONNECTIONS 
TO BIG TRAK 
TMS 1000 
M ICROPROCESSOR 




eO 



10K 



+9V 

A 



'20K 



;0.022/iF 
MYLAR 



DIS 



RESET 

IC5 

OUT 
NE555 



TSLD 



TRIG 



4800 Hz 



(300bps) 



Number 

IC1 
IC2 

IC3 
IC4 
IC5 



Type 

AY-3-1014A 

CD4051 

CD4051 

CD4049 

NE555 



12 



11 



10 



19 



IC1 

AY-3-1014A 

UART 



CS 

NP 

NB2 

NB1 

RDE 
SWE 
RESET 
TSB 
EPS 

SI 
RDAV 



37 



16 



21 



18 



rft 



IC4 
CD4049 



>0.1^iF 



I-9V 
A 



38 



36 



+ 9V 

1 

16 
16 
1 



9V 

t 



+ 9V 



100K 
AAft 



GND 

3 

7,8 

7,8 

8 
1 



A 



SERIAL DATA 
INPUT FROM 
FIGURE 7 



Figure 3: Schematic diagram of the Big Trak remote-control interface. This circuit is installed inside the tank, replacing the function 
of the manual keypad. The address-input lines on each of the two CD4051 8-channel multiplexers select the rows and columns of the 
keypad matrix. 

The AY -3-1014 A UART is a product of General Instrument Corporation, Microelectronics Division, 600 W John St, Hicksville NY 
11802. 



COMPUTER 
TTL/RS- 232C 
SERIAL OUTPUT 



MODULATOR 



ANTENNA 



V^V 



TRANSMITTER 





SERIAL INPUT 
TO REMOTE 
DEVICE 
(BIG TRAK) 


ANTENNA 




i 




RECEIVER 













Figure 4: Conceptual block diagram of a typical wireless communications link. 



or to a remote printer. The "wireless 
extension cord" depicted in figure 5 
can just as easily be attached between 
the computer and any output 
peripheral device. 

Figure 5 outlines a simple way to 
accomplish this communication. At 



the computer, an FSK modulator con- 
verts the 1 and levels to 2025 Hz and 
2225 Hz tones. These tones are trans- 
mitted using an inexpensive 49.86 
MHz walkie-talkie. At the receiving 
end (in this case, the Big Trak), 
another walkie-talkie receives the 



tones and a demodulator reconverts 
the tones to logic levels which are fed 
to the UART/control interface. 

Figure 6 is a schematic diagram of 
an answer-type modem modulator. 
The assembled circuit is shown in 
photo 7. Serial data from the com- 
puter is fed into pin 1 of IC2, as 
shown. A logic 1 input produces a 
2225 Hz tone, and a logic input pro- 
duces a 2025 Hz tone. These tones are 
amplified by IC3 and are directly fed 
to the walkie-talkie transmitter, 
through a connection across its 
speaker. 

Figure 7 is a diagram of the circuit 
required at the receiving end. It con- 
sists of an originate-type modem de- 
modulator and a walkie-talkie 
receiver. The guts of the walkie-talkie 
are removed from its case and 
mounted in the same enclosure with 



50 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 




At $7951 how tough can 
these new Tigers be? 



Introducing the new Paper Tiger™ 
445 with the most rugged printing 
mechanism ever put in a low-cost 
matrix printer. 

The 445 comes with a reliable ballis- 
tic-type print head and an advanced 
cartridge ribbon that lasts four times 
longer than many cassette or spool 
ribbons. Two separate heavy duty 
motors drive the print head 
and advance the paper. Plus you get 
true tractor paper feed. 

And the new 445 gives you the per- 
formance you expect from the Paper 
Tiger family of printers . You can soft- 
ware-select character sizes, print 
80- and 132-column formats, adjust 
paper width and length, even gen- 
erate six-part business forms. All at 
unidirectional print speeds to 198 
characters per second. 



Need more stripes? Specify DotPlot™, 
a sophisticated raster graphics option. 

If you've got an Apple**, TRS-80*** 
or other personal computer, get your 
paws on the tough new Paper Tiger™ 
445 from IDS. 

The people who invented low-cost 
matrix printing just growled. 

Call TOLL FREE 800-258-1386 (in 
New Hampshire, Alaska and Hawaii, 
call 603-673-9100.) 
Or write: 
Integral Data 
Systems, Inc., 
Milford, New 
Hampshire 
03055. 



HI 



KX33 




Tiger 445 

w£p) J Integral Data Systems, Inc. 




Circle 28 on inquiry card 



'Suggested U.S. retail price. 
"Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
"TRS-80 is a trademark of Radio Shack, a division of Tandy Corp. 



the modem board. Photo 9 shows the 
receiver mounted in the bottom of the 
box. The modem board is mounted 
on stand-offs over the receiver, and 
batteries are placed along the edge 
and under the board, as shown in 
photo 10. 

The audio output of the walkie- 
talkie is tapped from speaker leads; a 
10-ohm resistor should be substituted 
for the speaker if you don't wish to 
hear the tones. This audio signal is 
connected to the modem preamplifier 
input. It is next sent through a band- 



pass filter and limiter, which max- 
imizes the signal level yet keeps it 
under the saturation point of the de- 
modulator. The demodulator, IC3, is 
an XR2211 monolithic PLL (phase- 
locked loop). It is set to work at 2025 
and 2225 Hz. The output of the de- 
modulator is a logic signal that is 
compatible with the UART in the 
tank controller. 

The basic circuits shown in figure 6 
and 7 were originally presented in the 
Circuit Cellar article titled "A Build- 
It-Yourself Modem for Under $50" 




Photo 6: Big Trak undergoing modification. The interface circuit of figure 3 may be 
seen inside, in front of the keypad. 




(BYTE, August 1980, page 22). I refer 
you to that article for a more com- 
plete explanation of modem com- 
munication. (See also "BYTE's Bugs," 
BYTE, October 1980, page 332, and 
November 1980, page 112.) 

Wireless remote control in an auto- 
mated-house application was dis- 
cussed in "Handheld Remote Control 
for Your Computerized Home," 
BYTE, July 1980, page 22. 

The printed-circuit boards shown 
in photos 7 and 10 are the production 
modem boards originally offered as a 
kit with components for those people 
interested in constructing their own 
modems from the August article. 
These circuit boards are still available 
and were used to construct the inter- 
face described in this article. A text 
box at the end of this article tells how 
to order one of these boards. 

The completed interface is a fairly 
neat package. While it is large in com- 
parison to the five-integrated-circuit 
assembly inside the tank, it can still 
be toted along behind Big Trak by us- 
ing the Big Trak Transport, the tank's 
cargo trailer. A cable and jack con- 
nect the receiver to the controller in- 




Photo 7: The modulator section of an answer-type modem. The serial data output from 
the computer is modulated according to an FSK scheme into audio tones with frequen- 
cies of 2025 and 2225 Hz. 



Photo 8: The output of the modem 
modulator is connected by a cable to this 
walkie-talkie (a Radio Shack number 
60-4001) for transmission to the receiver 
on the Big Trak. The connection to the 
transmitter section of the walkie-talkie is 
made across the speaker terminals, with a 
10-ohm resistor inserted in the circuit in 
place of the speaker. A phono jack in- 
stalled on the front of the walkie-talkie 
facilitates the connection. 



52 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 29 on Inquiry card. 




BRAIN 



Once in a great while someone comes along 
with a simple improvement for an already great 
product. Take our SuperBrain, for example. Really a 
simple concept. A high-powered, low cost micro- 
computer packaged in an attractive desk top 
cabinet. So how do you improve on that? 

WE DID IT... 

It wasn't enough that our SuperBrain had 
such standard features as twin double density 
5%" drives with over 300,000 bytes of disk 
storage. A full 32K of dynamic RAM - expandable 
to 64K in seconds. A CP/M* Disk Operating 
System which assures compatibility to literally 
hundreds of application packages presently availa- 
ble. A crisp, 12" non-glare screen with a full 24 
line by 80 column display. A full ASCII keyboard 
with a separate keypad and individual cursor 
control keys. Twin RS232C serial ports for fast 
and easy connection to a modem and/or a printer. 
And, dual Z80 processors which operate at 4 MHZ 
to insure lightning-fast program execution. No, it 
wasn't enough. So we made it better. 

ANNOUNCING SUPERBRAIN QD... 

Our new OD model has all of the features of 
our phenomenally popular SuperBrain with the 
addition of double-sided disk drives and an extra 
32K of dynamic RAM. So, for only a modest in- 
crease in price, you can order your next SuperBrain 
with more than twice the disk and memory storage 
capability. But, best of all, the new OD model has 
the same tough, rugged construction and 
exceptional quality that made our SuperBrain 
such a success. 





HOW DID WE DO IT? 

The secret of SuperBrain OD's incredible disk 
storage lies within our new double-density double- 
sided disk drives. A total of nearly 720,000 bytes 
of data are formatted on two specially designed 
5%" drives. And that's more than enough to get 
you started with most serious small business 
applications. And SuperBrain OD's standard 64K of 
dynamic RAM will handle even the most complicat- 
ed programming tasks. 

Of course, if you're into megabytes instead of 
kilobytes, you may think neither SuperBrain is right 
for you. Not so! Intertec offers 20-96 megabytes of 
hard-disk storage which connects in seconds to 
either the SuperBrain or SuperBrain OD. So, your 
original investment is always protected. As you 
grow. No matter how much your needs expand. 



BUT IS IT RELIABLE? 

Our best salesmen are our present users. Not 
only have SuperBrain users been impressed with 
the inherent reliability of the system, they tell us 
that no other microcomputer system available 
today offers such a unique modular design con- 
cept. Just about the only tool required to easily 



maintain the system is a common screwdriver. And 
Intertec's total commitment to product service and 
customer support, with service outlets in most 
major cities, insures your original investment will 
be a valuable one for many years to come. 

THE DECISION IS YOURS. 

Whether your next SuperBrain is a regular 
model or our OD version, you will have the 
satisfaction of knowing you purchased what is 
becoming one of the world's most popular micro- 
computer systems. And regardless of which model 
you choose, you'll probably never outgrow it be- 
cause you can keep expanding it. 

So, call or write us today for more infor- 
mation. Intertec systems are distributed worldwide 
and may be available in your area now. 



3 



_ NTE3TEC 

Cdata 
s systems. 



2300 Broad River Rd„ Columbia, SC 29210 
(803) 798-9100 TWX: 810-666-2115 




* of DiQiialReseaith. Inc 



7antenna 

computer interface 




1 








V 










TRANSMITTER 
(WALKIE -TALKIE 
IN TRANSMIT 
MODE) 




ANSWER 
MODEM 
MODULATOR 
(2025-2Z25 Hz) 




300 bps 
SERIAL 
INTERFACE 




COMPUTER 

RUNNING 

BASIC 











ANTENNA 




WIRELESS EXTENSION CORD 



TANK INTERFACE 



RECEIVER 
(WALKIE -TALKIE 
IN RECEIVE 
MODE) 



•N 


t 






■v 






ORIGINATE 

MODEM 

DEMODULATOR 


SERIAL-TO- 
PARALLEL 
CONVERTER 


CMOS 
SWITCHES 


TANK 
KEYBOARD 









Figure 5: Block diagram of the wireless remote-control system described in this article. FSK modulation is employed along with inex- 
pensive walkie-talkies to create a "wireless extension cord. " 



ici 

NE567 



o.ooi^f; 



>10K 



300bps 

SERIAL [Z> 4— (I 

INPUT 



' 2 a p-w^ — (-4 



1 

r 



30 K 




1M 

-wv- 



2.2M 
-A/W, — 



33pF 



mD 8- 



lOaF 

^lOOK 
— Jt WW- 



IC2 
CD4011 



0.01/iF ; 



• 0.01>iF 



"X\H 

10K 
VOLUME 



m m 




220/iF 



o-vf; 



ion • 



ion 



V 



w 



WALKIE- 
TALKIE 
SPEAKER 



m 



rft 



2N2222 



Number 

IC1 
IC2 
IC3 



Type 

NE567 

CD4011 

LM386 



+5V GND 



4 

14 

6 



Figure 6: Schematic diagram of the modulator section of an answer-type modem. The assembled circuit is shown in photo 7. 

In this FSK-modulation scheme, a logic 1 input produces an output frequency of 2225 Hz, while a logic produces an output fre- 
quency of 2025 Hz. The output is connected across the speaker (which also serves as a microphone) in the walkie-talkie, which is con- 
nected to the transmitter section. Capacitors marked with an asterisk (*) should be Mylar type parts. 



terface. The combination 
trailer is shown in photo 11. 



tank/ 



Programming Big Trak from Your 
Computer Keyboard 

Now that you have a remote- 
controlled tank, you have to write a 
suitable control program. The com- 
plexity of the program depends upon 
the level of sophistication you desire. 
The interface was designed for simple 
interaction, and it doesn't require 
much. Complete direction can be ac- 



complished with as little as the 
following BASIC program: 

100 INPUT A 

110 LPRINT CHR$(A); 

120 GOTO 100 

In this program, the value of the 
variable A should be one of the 23 
decimal values listed in table 2. The 
operator must keep track of the entry 
sequence, and Big Trak and the com- 
munication link must be powered at 



all times, because commands are 
entered singly and stored only in the 
tank's control system. 

A much more sophisticated BASIC 
program is shown in listing 1. This 
program allows the operator to 
assemble a command sequence off- 
line with functional entries (Hold, 
Fire, etc) rather than coded inputs. In 
addition, the time needed to develop 
a command sequence becomes less of 
a problem, since power to the tank 

Text continued on page 58 



54 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc. 



Circle 30 on Inquiry card. 



Listing 1: A program in BASH ' tiuit ttlhnvs the operator to assemble a Big Trak com- 
mand sequence using functional entries. The command sequence is stored within the 
host computer and is transmitted in its entirety to tiie Big Trak when the operator gives 
the Go command. 



100 
110 
120 
130 
140 
150 
160 
170 
180 
190 
200 
210 
220 
230 
240 
250 
260 
270 
280 
290 
300 
310 
320 
330 
340 
350 
360 
370 
380 
390 
400 
410 
420 
430 
440 
450 
460 
470 
480 
490 
500 
510 
520 
530 
540 
550 
560 
570 
580 
590 
600 
610 
620 
630 
640 
650 
660 
670 
680 
690 
700 
710 
720 
730 
740 
750 
760 
770 
780 
790 
800 
810 
820 
830 
840 
850 
860 
870 
880 
890 
900 
910 
920 
930 
940 



REM ************ BIG TKAK HFIMOTE CONTROL PROGRAM ********** 
REM 
REM 
REM 

REM Clear enough memory space for possible 16 command sequence 
FOR Q = 25000 TO 25048 :POKE Q,u :NEXT Q :REM Clear Memory Table 
REM 

REM Load conversion tabic for ASCII 0-9 to tank code 
DATA 38,53,3 7,8 5,52,3 6,84,51,35,83 
FOR W=0 TO 9: READ B(W): NEXT W 
REM 
REM 

PRINT:PRINT:PRINT:PRINT"COMPUTERIZED REMOTE CONTROL" : PRINT 
K=0 :REM Reset Command Counter 

S=0:T=25000: POKE T,65: T=T+ 1 :REM Set first code in table 
REM it clear code 

PRINT"Command list to be repeated each time (Y or N)";: INPUT C$ 
IF CS="Y" THEN C = l ELSE C=0 :GOSUB 990 :GOTO 300 
REM 
REM 

IF C=l THEN GOSUB 990 ELSE GOTO 310 
PRINT:PRINT"Command" ;: INPUT AS 
IF A$="M" THEN GOTO 440 
C" THEN GOTO 600 
THEN GOTO 650 
IF A$="R" THEN GOTO 720 
IF A$="T" THEN GOTO 760 
IF A$="F" THEN GOTO 820 
IF A$="D" THEN GOTO 890 
IF A$="G" THEN GOTO 920 
IF A$="L" THEN GOTO 1290 
GOTO 310 
REM 

REM Move Command 

PRINT" (F)orward, (B)ackward, (L) eft, or (R) ight" 
IF B$="F" THEN X = 33 :COTO 500 

GOTO 500 

GOTO 550 



IF A$ = 
IF A$="H" 



: INPUT B$ 



IF B$="B" 
IF B$="L" 



THEN X=34 
THEN X=50 



IF B$="R" THEN X=82 :GOTO 550 

GOTO 300 

PRINT"How many feet (1 to 99)";:INPUT Ql 

IF Q1<=0 THEN 500 

IF Ql>99 THEN 500 

GOSUB 9 80 

GOSUB 1090: GOTO 300 

PRINT"Turn how many degrees (0 to 360)";:INPUT Ql :Q1=INT ( (Ql/360) *60) 

GOSUB 980 

GOSUB 1090 :GOTO 300 

REM 

REM Clear Command 

K=0 :S=0 :T=25000 :FOR Q=25000 TO 25048 : POKE Q,0 :NEXT Q 

PRINT"Stored sequence cleared Start Again" :POKE T,65 :T=T+1 

GOSUB 990 :GOTO 310 
REM 

REM Hold Command 

X=49 :PRINT"Hold how many seconds (total times .lsec) " ; :INPUT Ql 

IF Q1<=0 THEN 650 

IF Ql>99 THEN 650 

GOSUB 980 

GOSUB 1090 :GOTO 300 

REM 

REM Repeat Command 

X=67 :PRINT"Repeat how many steps" ;: INPUT Ql :GOSUB 980 

GOSUB 1090 : GOTO 300 

REM 

REM Test Command 

IF T<=25001 THEN 770 ELSE 790 

LPRINT CHR$(68) ; :PRINT"TEST COMMAND TRANSMITTED" 

GOSUB 990 :GOTO 310 

PRINT:PRINT"CAN NOT EXECUTE EXCEPT AS FIRST COMMAND" : GOTO 300 

REM 

REM Fire Command 

X=81 :PRINT"How many shots (1 to 99)";:INPUT Ql 

IF Q1<=0 THEN 820 

IF Ql>99 THEN 820 

GOSUB 980 

GOSUB 1090 :GOTO 300 

REM 

REM Dump (OUT) Command 

X=86 :GOSUB 1090 :GOTO 300 
REM 

REM Command Transmitter 

X=70 :PRINT"COMMAND CONTROL SEQUENCE IS BEING TRANSMITTED TO TANK" 

PRINT :PRINT 

GOSUB 1200 Listing 1 continued on page 58 



SNAPP II EXTENDED DASIC A family of en- 
hancements to the Model II DASIC interpreter. 
Part of the package originated with the best of 
APPARAT, INC.'s thoughts in implementing 
NEWDOS DASIC. The system is written entirely in 
machine language for SUPER FAST execution. 
The extensions are fully integrated into Model II 
DASIC, and require NO user Memory, and NO 
user disk space. The package is made up of the 
following six modules, each of which may be 
purchased separately; 

XDASIC — Six single key stroke commands to list 
the first, last, previous, next, or current program 
line, or to edit the current line. Includes quick 
woy to recover DASIC program following a NEW 
or system or accidental re-boot. Ten single 
character abbreviations for frequently used 
commands: AUTO, CLS, DELETE, EDIT, KILL, 
LIST, MERGE, NEW, LUST, and SYSTEM. $40.00 
XREF — A powerful cross-reference facility with 
output to display and/or printer. Trace a vari- 
able through the code. Determine easily if a 
variable is in use. $40.00 

XDUMP — Permits the programmer to display 
and/or print the value of any or all program 
variables. Identifies the variable type for all 
variables. Each element of any array is listed 
separately. $40.00 

XRENUM — An enhanced program line renum- 
bering facility which allows specification of on 
upper limit of the block of lines to be renum- 
bered, supports relocation of renumbered 
blocks of code, and supports duplication of 
blocks of code. $40.00 

XFIND — A cross reference facility for key words 
and character strings, also includes global re- 
placement of keywords. $40.00 
XCOMPRESS — Compress your DASIC programs 
to an absolute minimum. Removes extraneous 
information; merge lines; even deletes state- 
ments which could nor be executed. Typically 
saves 30-40% space even for programs with- 
out REM statements! Also results in 7-10% im- 
provement in execution speed. $40.00 
ENTIRE PACKAGE ONLY $200.00 



6160 Corporate Pork Dr. 
Cincinnati, Ohio 45242 

, Coll Toll Free = 

1 - 800 - 543-4628 Li'J 
Ohio residents 
coll collect (513)891-4496 

All products now available to run with TRSDOS 2.0 
TRS-80 is o trademark of the Radio Shack 
division of Tandy Corporation. 

Now available for Model III 



February 19S1 © BYTE Publications Inc 55 



Introducing 7 data- shield- 
ing improvements from 
Verbatim for greater disk 
durability, longer data life. 

Improvements to protect 
your data from head-to-disk 
abrasion. Improvements to 
shield your data against loss 
due to environmental condi- 
tions. Improvements that'll 
deliver a longer lifetime of 
trouble-free data recording, 
storage and retrieval than 
ever before possible. 

It's all made possible 
by Verbatim, with these 
improvements: 

1. A longer-lasting lubri- 
cant. Our new lubricant is 
more resistant to diffusion, to 
protect against data-destroy- 
ing head-to-disk contact. 

2. An improved liner. 
Our new liner cleans and 



removes debris better. It also 
enables more lubricant to 
reach the recording head, 
protecting against head wear. 

3. A thicker, more dura- 
ble coating. Our disks have 

a more uniform oxide coating 
for more adhesive and co- 
hesive strength. We've also 
made it thicker; providing 
10% more protective lubri- 
cant and an optimized signal 
resolution for the new record- 
ing heads. >. 

4. Advanced polishing^ 
techniques. Our burnishing 
makes our disks uniformly 
smooth, for better data trans- 
fer, less head wear. 

5. Reinforcing hub rings. 
All Verbatim disks are avail- 
able with hub rings to aid in 
registration, eliminate slip- 
page, reduce errors, and give 



DD32-4000-W3 



Datalife 



\ 



r O 




c 1980 Verbatim Corporation 



formance of a lifetime! 




better alignment repeatability. 

6. Testing standards that 
go far beyond industry stand- 
ards. Every Verbatim disk 
meets or exceeds the most 
demanding of IBM, Shugart, 
ANSI, ECMA and ISO stand- 
ards -because we insist on 
Verbatim being the industry 
standard of excellence. 

We analyze raw materials 
down to their molecular con- 
tent. We subject every coating 
batch to more than 70 chemi- 
cal, magnetic and electrical 
tests. Two separate test groups 
employ life-cycle tests using 
more than 400 disk drives 
from every manufacturer. And 
we conduct "worst case" test- 
ing of every bit of every byte 
of every track of every single 
disk. All to insure that Verba- 
tim disks always pass the ulti- 



mate test: satisfying you. 
7. A 100% Error-Free 
Certification that means 
more than just " 100% error- 
free" Our certification isn't 
based on random sampling, 
or statistical averaging. Rather, 
it's based on extensively test- 
ing every single disk. So we 
can state that our disks really 
are 100% error-free, and back 
it up with a one year warranty. 



"Try new Verbatim for the 
performance of a lifetime! 







m 



We play it back, Verbatim! 



Circle 31 on inquiry card. 



Circle 32 on inquiry card. 




MICROPROCESSOR 
CROSS PASCAL RUN- 
NING ON ALL PDP-11' 
LSI-11 SYSTEMS 

WRITTEN IN MACRO- 
II SYMBOLIC P-CODE 
OUTPUT. . . USER- 
MODIFYABLEAND . . . 

LOW COST !!! 



TARGET 


MICROPROCESSORS 


8085 


6809 


8048 


68000 


Z80 


Z8000 


9900 


8086 


6500 


PDP-11 


6800 





OPERATING SYSTEMS 

UNIX 

RT-11 

RSTS 

RSX-11D 

RSX-11M 

RSX-11M-PLUS 

IAS 




ALSO FROM 
SYSTEM-KONTAKT 



• DOWN LOADERS 
SIMULATORS 
CROSS ASSEMBLERS 

SYSTEM-KONTAKT, Inc. 

6 Preston Court • Bedford. MA 01 730 U.S.A. 
(617) 275-2333 



COMMANDS 


: " 




(F) ire" 




(D)ump" 




(G)o" 




(D) ump" 


NT" 


(T)est" 



Listing 1 continued: 

950 PRINT :PRINT"Retransmit Same Control Sequence (Y or N)",:INPUTQ$ 

960 IF Q$="Y" THEN LPRINT CHR$(70);: GOTO 920 

970 IF Q$="N" THEN 220 ELSE 950 

980 A1=INT(Q1/10) :A=Q1-A1*10 : RETURN 

9 90 REM 

1000 PRINT" 

1010 PRINT" (M)ove 

1020 PRINT" (C)lear 

1030 PRINT" (H)old 

1040 PRINT" (R)epeat 

1050 IF T<=25001 THEN PRINT" 

1060 RETURN 

1070 REM 

1080 REM Store Command Code in Memory Table 

1090 POKE T,X :T=T+1:K=K+1 

1100 IF A+A1=0 THEN RETURN 

1110 IF A1=0 THEN 1130 

1120 POKE T,B(A1) :T=T+1 

1130 POKE T,B(A) :T=T+1 

1140 PRINT" Command Stored"; 

1150 IF K>=15 THEN GOTO 1160 ELSE 1170 

1160 PRINT :PRINT"NEXT COMMAND MUST BE GO !" : RETURN 

1170 RETURN 

1180 REM 

1190 REM LPRINT Command Sequence from Memory Table 

1200 POKE T,X 

1210 FOR E=25000 TO T 

1220 D1=PEEK(E) :LPRINT CHR$(D1); 

1230 FOR C=0 TO 100: NEXT C 

1240 NEXT E 

1250 PRINT"TRANSMISSION COMPLETE" 

1260 RETURN 

1270 REM 

1280 REM Display codes stored in memory table 

1290 FOR N=25000 TO 25048 :PRINT PEEK(N);" ";:NEXT N 

1300 GOTO 300 



Command Name 


ASCII Character 


Hexadecimal Code 


Dec 


mal Code 


Forward 




! 




21 




33 


Backward 




" 




22 




34 


Right 




R 




52 




82 


Left 




2 




32 




50 


Clear (all) 




A 




41 




65 


Clear (last) 




B 




42 




66 


Hold 




1 




31 




49 


Repeat 




C 




43 




67 


Check 




E 




45 




69 


Fire 




Q 




51 




81 


Out 




V 




56 




86 


Test 




D 




44 




68 


Go 




F 




46 




70 







& 




26 




38 


1 




5 




35 




53 


2 




% 




25 




37 


3 




U 




55 




85 


4 




4 




34 




52 


5 




$ 




24 




36 


6 




T 




54 




84 


7 




3 




33 




51 


8 




# 




23 




35 


9 




S 




53 




83 


Table 2: Correspondence 


of ASCII characters 


to the twenty-th 


ree Big 


Trak corn- 


mand codes. The decimal 


values of the ASCII characters are sen 


t to the 


transmitter 


using the BASIC statement LPRINT CHR$(X). 









Text continued from page 54: 

and communication interface need to 
be turned on only when the sequence 
is to be executed. The Go command 
transmits the entire repertoire to the 
tank in one stream of data. 

The data sent to the tank can in fact 
be seen in the sample run of listing 2. I 
used the same serial port designated 
for the wireless communications link 
to list the program. You'll note the 



string of extraneous characters after 
"COMMAND SEQUENCE IS BEING 
TRANSMITTED TO TANK". 
"A!%1%&Q$25$!5&QTC%F" 
is the string sent to the tank by the 
CHR$(X) function. It ended up on the 
listing (inadvertently) because both 
devices (printer and tank) use the 
same I/O-port address. If you com- 
pare these characters to those in table 
2, you will see that it represents the 



58 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 33 on inquiry card. 



■mi — rmi 



ngnnn mm mm mm mm mm ran pan mm mm mm hem f Ai u u i pnnng ronroi nnn mn 



NEVER UNDERSOLD! 

That's right. If you con find a lower price In this magazine for any of the Items listed in this ad, we will reduce our price 
below our competitor's price. See each box below to determine how much EXTRA we will cut off of THEIR price If we're not 
lowest. Please consider the competitor's shipping charges, OUR SHIPPING IS FREE!* 



ft 



FLOPPY DISKETTES 
& SUPPLIES 

IF YOU CAN FIND A LOWER PRICE IN 
THIS MAGAZINE ON ANY OF THESE 
ITEMS, DEDUCT *.S0 FROM OUR 
COMPETITOR'S PRICE, THAT'S OUR 
PRICEl 

Call For Quantity Discounts 

Verbatim Diskettes (box of 10) 

5'/." MD52501 soft.lOor 16 $26.50 

5'/«" MD577-01 quad soft. 10 or 16 . . $33.00 

8" FD34-1000 soft $30.00 

8" FD32-1000 hord $30.00 

8" FD34-8000 double density soft . . . $44.00 
8" FD32-8000 double density hard . . .$44.00 

Prlntwheels (specify style) 
Qume or Diablo $6.50 

Label! 

3'/, "xl5/16" (5000 labels) $18.75 

Other sizes and quantities CALL 

Rlbbonf 

Diablo Hy Type I $4.95 

Diablo Hy Type II $5.25 

Qume Sprint $3.50 

Centronics Zip Pack $3.95 

MANY OTHERS CALL 



ffff 



PRINTERS 


IF YOU CAN FIND A LOWER 
PRICE IN THIS MAGAZINE ON 
ANY OF THESE PRINTERS, 
DEDUCT S10 FROM OUR COM- 
PETITOR'S PRICE, THAT'S OUR 
PRICEl 


Epson MX 80 

Okidata Microline-80. . . 
Okidata Microline-82 . . . 
Okidata Microltne-83 . . . 
IDS Paper Tiger 445G . . . 
IDS Paper Tiger 460G . . . 
Anadex DP-8000 (AP) . . . 


CALL 

$550 

CALL 

CALL 

$775 

$1193 

CALL 

$1395 


Centronics 737 $799 

NEC W/Sellum Bi.Dir. Board . . . $2595 
Vista 25CPS $1595 




CALL 




. .CALL 


Escon Interface 


$545 


Call For Other Printers 



ffff 



SOFTWARE, MODEMS & 
TRS-80 HARDWARE 

IF YOU CAN FIND A LOWER PRICE IN THIS 

MAGAZINE ON ANY OF THESE ITEMS, 

DEDUCT 3V. FROM OUR COMPETITOR'S 

PRICE. THAT'S OUR PRICEl 

SOFTWARE 

Microsoft 

Basic Compiler $345 

Basic-80 $319 

Fortran-80 $399 

Cobol-80 $599 

Macro-80 $144 

Pickles and Trout CP/M CALL 

Grahm Dorian CALL 

Peach Tree CALL 

Magic Wand CALL 

Supersoft CALL 

PCD Pascal $350 

Visicalc $124 

Space Invaders $23 

Adventure $26 

Head cleaning kit $26 

MODEMS 

UDS 103CP $175 

D-CAT $155 

CAT $145 

TRS-80 HARDWARE 

Micropenis 77 track SUPER SALE $399 

Lobo Drives CALL 

Matchless Drives CALL 




LJ = 



LJ = 



U3 = 




U-i 



\mt 




4636 Park Granada 
Calabasas, Ca. 91302 








© 




Bijis 
Stars gja 


MB 

For phone c 

(2 1 3) 8 


- 

rders CALL: 

83-8594 



l§" = 



*_,_ 



3= 



U^ 



mz 



(u. 




IF YOU CAN FIND A LOWER PRICE IN THIS MAGAZINE ON ANY OF THE 
ITEMS LISTED BELOW, DEDUCT 5% FROM OUR COMPETITOR'S PRICE, 
THAT'S OUR PRICEl (BUT IF YOU DON'T SEE IT, CALL FOR A PRICE— WE 
WILL BEAT EVERYBODY!) 

S- 100 HARDWARE APPLE HARDWARE 

CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SYSTEMS: 

16K Static RAM (Model 2016C) $349 

32K Static RAM (Model 2032A) $599 

64K Dynamic RAM (Model 

2032A) $599 

16K Static RAM (Model 2065A) $299 

Main Frame (Model 

2200A) $339 

Floppy Disk Controller (Model 

2422A) $339 

4 Port Serial I/O (Model 

2710) $CALL 

2S+2P I/O (Model 

2718) CALL 

Z-80 CPU (Model 2810) $249 

Godbout Econoram CALL 

SD Systems Versa Floppy $279 

Expando RAM $CALL 



MicrosoftZ-eOSoftcard $259 

SSM AIO $165 

SYMTEC Apple Light Pen $219 

CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SYSTEMS: 

Parallel Interface (Model 7720A) $112 

Asynchronous Serial Interface (Model 

7710A) $149 

Programmable Timer (Model 7440A) $149 

I2K ROM/PROM Module (Model 71 14 A) $75 

Arithmetic Processor (Model 781 1 A) $374 

Synchronous Serial Interface (Model 

7712A) $149 

GPIB Interlace (Model 7490A) $281 

3V. Didgil BCD A/D Converter $140 

Centronics Printer Interface (Model 7728) . .$99 
MOUNTAIN HARDWARE: 

Super Talker $270 

ROMWRITER $157 

INTROL/X-10 $180 

ROMPLUS+ $162 

MUSICSYSTEM $499 

Apple Clock $252 

Lobo Drive $CALL 

Vide* 80X24 $345 

Andromeda $189 



1-33 



UJ 




I I 



L_I3 



j ,:.=--- 



'FREE shipping on all orders over $20. Visa and Master Cord 
ly answer any questions on all of our hardware, software, a 
handling charges when arriving at never undersold price. 



accepted. All never undersold offers good as supply lasts. Please add 2.00 for all COD orders. Please call for items not listed. We glad- 
nd supply needs Qu anility discounts available. School purchase orders accepted. Please remember to figure competitors shipping and 

Circle 32 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 34 on inquiry card. 



The 

reachable 

star. 



ne & i /vi puts a quality 300 
bps RS232 modem within reach 
of the smail computer user...the 
same modem selected by IBM, 
GE, RCA, and ADP. "Hie price? 
Under $200! 

WeVe designed this compact 
modem with exclusive triple-seal 
acoustic cups, crystal controlled 
oscillator, and built-in 
diagnostics and indicators. It's 
packaged inside an attractive in- 
jection molded case...and we 
stand behind the STAR with a 
two year warranty! 

STAR models are available 
that interface directly with RS232 
machines such as APPLE, 
ATARI, and NORTH STAR or 
IEEE 488 machines such as the 
PET, and that operate with either 
U.S. or European frequencies. 




commands entered during execution 
of the program. 

The program here, of course, is de- 
signed more as a demonstration than 
as a functional illustration of com- 
puter intelligence. I don't play with 
these interfaces every day, and it is 
easy for me to forget the steps neces- 
sary to enter a program on the key- 



pad. By making it as idiot-proof as 
possible, by prompting the correct re- 
sponse, / can appear more intelligent 
when I demonstrate Big Trak. 

In Conclusion 

Big Trak will not create any earth- 
shaking movement within the robot- 

Text continued on page 64 




Photo 9: A second walkie-talkie is used in the receiving section of the remote-control 
hardware. The working parts of the walkie-talkie have been placed in the same 
enclosure that will shortly house the demodulator circuit. Here again, the speaker has 
been removed from the walkie-talkie and a 10-ohm resistor substituted. 




Photo 10: The originate-type modem demodulator of figure 7 has been constructed on 
a printed-circuit board and placed in this box over the walkie-talkie circuit. The 
modulator section of the circuit board is not used in this application; therefore the in- 
tegrated circuits used only by the modulator have been removed. The circuit board is 
mounted on stand-offs and is powered by two 9 V batteries. A shielded cable and a 
phono jack connect it to the tank-controller interface, mounted inside the Big Trak. 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 




New power at your fingertips. 



Konan presents Hard Disk 
Control, Tape Control, and 
Serial I/O Boards for S-lOO 
computers. 

Konan, known throughout the industry for its 
leading, innovative, guaranteed controllers 
for S-lOO systems, does it again. Now, it offers 
you more of the expanded capabilities you 
want, 

Take your pick to suit your needs. There's 
the SMC-lOO™ storage module (SMD or CDC 
9760 interface) hard disk controller. There's 
the HARDTAPE™ subsystem which offers 
Winchester hard disk control with tape 
back up. Or maybe you could use Konan's 
new KNX-500, software compatible with 
the AM-500*, for lO megabyte fixed/ 
removable media hard disks. The "DAVID" 
is Konan's new error-correcting intelligent 
disk controller for 5 1/4" and 8" Winchester 
hard disk drives. And the "ENHANCER" is an 
intelligent reel-to-reel tape controller with 
high speed printer port for spooling, offline 
sorts, copies, etc. Watch for new controllers 
coming soon! 



Also, Konan introduces OCTOPORT™ and 
OMNIPORT™-two new serial I/O boards. 
OCTOPORT™, the 8-port board, offers a real 
time clock and full interrupt control. And the 
16 port OMNIPORT™ offers you an efficient, 
economical board where more than 8 ports 
are needed. 

With these and other quality products, 
Konan shows again that when it comes to 
S-lOO systems, it is definitely in control, (And 
all at attractive OEM and dealer prices.) 

Call Konan's toll-free order line: 

800-528-4563. 

Or write ta Konan Corporation 
1448 North 27th Avenue 

Phoenix, AZ 85009 
TWX/TELEX 9109511552 

"Alpha Micro AM-500 is a trademark ol Alpha Micro Systems. 

IN CONTROL, SMC-lOO. HARD TAPE. KNX-500, OCTOPORT. and OMNIPORT 
are trademarks ol Konan Corporalion. 




Now-Break Through The 64K 
Micro-Memory Limit! 



SIXTEEN 

Bank Selectable 16K Static RAM 




SAVE $50.09 

LIMITED TIME OFFER 

Don't buy any more antique RAMs (RAM without 
bank select) — now there's Netronic's new 
SWEET SIXTEEN board featuring a universal soft- 
ware bank select system. SWEET SIXTEEN is 
capable of addressing 2.048 different banks. 
With SWEET SIXTEEN boards you can add mem- 
ory beyond the 64K limit, or expand to a multi- 
terminal system. 
LOOK AT THESE FEATURES: 

• 300 NS, low power 2114's. 

• Software Bank Selector — Universal decoder 
works withCromenco. Alpha Micro. Netronics. most 
other systems, or your design. Onboard dip 
switches: Bank Select Enable: Reset Enable.- Reset 
Disable. Port Address.- Port Data. 

• All Inputs And Outputs meet the proposed IEEE 
standards for the S-100 bus. 

• 4.0 MHz Operation. 

• Schmitt Trigger Buffer on all signals for maximum 
noise immunity. 

• Addressable On 16k Boundaries, 0-64k. dip 
switch selectable. 

• Phantom Option, dip switch selectable. 

• PWR/MWRITE Option, dip switch selectable. 

• LED Indicator to display status. 

• Glass Epoxy PC Board with gold-plated contacts 
and double-sided solder mask. 

• Fully Socketed. 

• Four Separate Regulators for maximum stability. 

10-Day Money-Back Policy For Wired & Tested 
Unit: Try a fully wired board — then either keep it. 
return it for kit. or simply return it in working condi- 

Continental U.S.A. Credit Card Buyers 
■ ■■■■■■■■■■ Outside Connecticut: ■■■■■■■■■■■■ 



CALL TOLL FREE: 
800-243-7428 

From Conneclicut Or For Assistance: 
{203)354-9375 
Please send the items checked below: 

SWEET SIXTEEN kit; No. S-16 . . . (reg. price 
S249.95) now S199.95* 
D SWEET SIXTEEN, fully assembled, tested, 
burned in; No. S-16W . . . (reg. price $289.95) 
now S239.95* 
'Plus $2 postage & insurance. Connecticut residents 
add sales tax. 
Total Enclosed: S 



□ Personal Check □ Money Order/Cashier's Check 

□ VISA P Master Charge (Bank No. I 

Acct. No. Exp. Date 

Signature 

Print 

Name 

Address 

City 

Stale 



-Zip 



I5.NETR0INICS 

RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT, LTD. 

333 Litchfield Rd., New Milford. CT 06776 



62 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Listing 2: An example of the user interaction produced by the program of listing 1. The 
coded command-specification characters transmitted to the tank show up in this print- 
out on the next-to-last line, because the same I/O-port address was used for both the 
remote-control transmitter and the printer interface. 



COMPUTERIZED REMOTE CONTROL 

Command list to be repeated each time (Y or N)? N 
COMMANDS : 

(M)ove (F)ire 

(C)lear (D)ump 

(H)old (G)o 

(R)epeat (D)ump 
(T)est 

Command? M 

(F)orward, (B)ackward, (L) eft, or (R)ight 

? F 

How many feet (1 to 99)? 2 

Command Stored 
Command? H 
Hold how many seconds (total times .lsec)? 20 

Command Stored 
Command? F 
How many shots (1 to 99)? 5 

Command Stored 
Command? M 

(F)orward, (B)ackward, (L)eft,or (R)ight 
? I 
Turn how many degrees (0 to 360)? 90 

Command Stored 
Command? M 

(F)orward, (B)ackward, (L)ef t,or (R)ight 
? F 
How many feet (1 to 99)? 10 

Command Stored 
Command? F 
How many shots (1 to 99)? 6 

Command Stored 
Command? R 
Repeat how many steps? 2 

Command Stored 
Command? G 
COMMAND CONTROL SEQUENCE IS BEING TRANSMITTED TO TANK 



A!%l%SQ$25$!5SQTC%FTRANSMISSION COMPLETE 
Retransmit Same Control Sequence (Y or N) ? 




Photo 11: When the electronic hardware has been built and is fully operational, the Big 
Irak Transport {a cargo trailer) provides a convenient method for dragging the wireless 
communication interface along. 

Circle 36 on Inquiry card. — -#► 



THE SOLUTION STORE 




. . . Makes The Difference! 



MicroAge Computer Stores sell solutions to your professional, business 
and household-management problems, not just hardware. That's what 
makes the MicroAge difference! From systems integration to easy-to- 
understand application software, research and development to warranty 
service and repair, systems consulting to training and installation. In all 
these, we offer the latest, most innovative approaches. That's why we are 
the forerunners ... the pioneers in the microcomputer industry. 

But don't just take our word for it. Visit the MicroAge Computer Store nearest 
you and see the difference solutions make. We have differences you'll 
experience with every time and money-saving idea. The difference that 
will keep you satisfied now and for years to come! 



ccvMPUTer sTore 

"Where Vision Becomes Reality" 



9530 Viscount 
El Paso, Texas 
(915) 591-3349 

611 Rockville Pike 
Rockville, Maryland 
(301) 762-7585 

5742 E. Broadway 
Tucson, Arizona 
(602) 790-8959 



1707 Monroe Avenue 
Rochester, New York 
(716) 244-9000 

1220 Melbourne Drive 
Hurst, Texas 
(817)284-3413 



2065 El Camino Real West 
Mountain View, California 
(415) 964-7063 

2525 N.Scottsdale Road 
Scottsdale, Arizona 
(602) 941-8794 



83 South 10th Street 24 W. Camelback 

Minneapolis, Minnesota Phoenix, Arizona 
(61 2) 338-1 777 (602) 265-0065 

1490 W. Spring Valley Road 4550-50 E. Cactus 
Richardson, Texas Phoenix, Arizona 

(21 4) 234-5955 (602) 996-291 



2591 Hamilton Road 
Columbus, Ohio 
(614) 868-1550 

Coming soon to: 
Denver, Colorado 
Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
Indianapolis, Indiana 



FOR FRANCHISE OPPORTUNITY INFORMATION CALL (602) 967-1421 



BANDPASS FILTER AND LI MITER 




9V BATTERY 



=_9V BATTERY 



SERIAL DATA OUT ^ — , 1 /T f 

TO FIGURE 3 < ^— I °l I 



Number 


Type 


+ 9V 


-9V 


GND 


IC1 


LM741 


7 


4 




IC2 


LM1458 


8 


4 




1C3 


XR2211 


1 




4 


IC4 


CD4011 


14 




7 



Figure 7: The demodulator section of an originate-type modem. This is required at the receiving end of the computer/Big Trak link to 
decode the 2025 Hz and 2225 Hz tones received by the walkie-talkie. See photos 9 and 10 for views of the receiving system. 

The XR2211 phase-locked loop is produced by Exar Integrated Systems, POB 62229, Sunnyvale CA 94086. Capacitors marked 
with an asterisk (*) should be the type made from Mylar. 



Text continued from page 60: 

ics community, but neither will it go 
unnoticed by those of us who like to 
play with toys. I hope you will 
recognize the independent capability 
of the wireless serial-communication 
link and use it in another application. 
As regards extensions of the con- 
trol concept, a few more ideas came 
to mind while I was writing. The 
wireless communication method de- 
scribed in this interface is a one-way 
link, computer to remote peripheral 
device. However, the modem boards 
used in the prototype have full- 
duplex capability, even though only 



half of each unit is used. Further- 
more, within the tank-controller in- 
terface, I did not use the transmit por- 
tion of the UART. 

If two more walkie-talkies oper- 
ating on a different frequency are 
added, or if the two existing units 
are switched back and forth between 
send and receive, we could conceiv- 
ably receive data sent back from the 
tank. The required interface com- 
ponents are presently available in the 
hardware (the other halves of the two 
full-duplex modem boards) but are 
not utilized. 

What data might the tank send 



back7 Do you remember that article I 
did a while back on the Polaroid 
Ultrasonic Ranging System? [In case 
you don't, see "Home In on the 
Range! An Ultrasonic Ranging Sys- 
tem," BYTE, November 1980, page 
32. ...RSS] 

I'm sure you get the picture, but 
unfortunately I didn't have enough 
time to add that feature now. How- 
ever, if you don't mind looking at Big 
Trak once more at a future time, I'd 
like to consider adding "eyes" and 
demonstrating control programs that 
exhibit more machine intelligence. 



64 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 37 on Inquiry card. 



First compare quality. 
Then compare cost. 

Morrow Designs' 10 megabyte 
hard disk system: $3,695. 



MORE MEMORY. LESS MONEY. 

Compare Morrow Designs' DISCUS 
M26™ hard disk systems 
to any system available 
forS-100 or Cromemco 
machines. First, compare 
features. Then, com- 
pare cost per mega- 
byte. The M26 works 
out to under $200 a 
megabyte. And the M 10 is 
about half the cost of com- 
peting systems. 

COMPLETE SUBSYSTEMS 

Both the M10 (8"), and the M26 
(14"), are delivered complete with 
disk controller, cables, fan, power sup 
ply, cabinet and CP/M® operating 
system. It's your choice: 10 Mb 8" 
at $3,695 or26 Mb 14"at $4,995. 
That's single unit. Quantity prices are 
available. 

BUILD TO FOUR DRIVES. 

104 Megabytes with the M26. 40+ 
megabytes with the M10. Formatted. 
Additional drives: M26: $4,495. 
M10: $3,195. Quantity discounts 
available. 

S-100, CROMEMCO 
AND NORTH STAR? 

The M26 and M10 are sealed-media 
hard disk drives. Both S-100 controllers 
incorporate intelligence to super- 
vise all data transfers through four I/O 
ports (command, 2 status and data). 
Transfers between drives and control- 
lers are transparent to the CPU. The 
controller can also generate interrupts 
at the completion of each command 
...materially increasing system through- 
put. Sectors are individually 
write-protectable for multi- 
use environments. North 
Star or Cromemco? 
Call Micro Mike's, 
Amarillo, TX, 
(806)372-3633 
for the software ♦ " 

package that allows 
the M26and M10to run 
on North Star DOS. MICAH of 




Morrow Designs' 
26 megabyte 
hard disk system: 
$4,995. 




Sausalito, CA, (415) 332-4443, 
offers a CP/M expanded to full 
Cromemco CDOS compatibility. 

AND NOW, MULT-I/O.™ 

Mult-I/Oisan I/O controller that allows 
multi-terminal and multi-purpose 
use of S-1 00 and Cromemco computers. 
Three serial and two parallel output 
ports. Real time clock. Fully program- 
mable interrupt controller. Designed 
with daisy-wheel printers in mind. 
Price: $299 (kit), $349 assembled 
and tested. 

MAKE HARD COMPARISONS. 

You'll find that Morrow Designs' hard 
disk systems offer the best price/ 
performance ratios available for S-100, 
Cromemco and North Star compu- 
ters. See the M26 and M10 hard disk 
subsystems at your computer dealer. 
Or, write Morrow Designs. Need infor- 
mation fast? Call us at (415) 524-2101 . 

Look to Morrow 
for answers. 



MORROW OESIGN5 



"CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research Corp. 
•Cromemco is a trademark of Cromemco. Inc. 
North Star is a trademark of North Star Computers, Inc. 



5221 Central Avenue 
Richmond. CA 94804 



n 



Readers who wish to experiment with the wireless interface or want to 
build an inexpensive modem may order the following: 

Blank printed-circuit board (shown in photos 7 and 10) and construction 
manual; can be built as either answer or originate full-duplex modem. 
Full details of the circuit on the board are described in "A Build-It- 
Yourself Modem for Under $50, " BYTE, August 1980, page 22, and con- 
struction manuals included in each board. 



Single circuit board 
Two or more boards 



$14 
$12.50 each 



Complete kit (printed-circuit board, components, and manual) necessary to 
build a full-duplex originate modem. 



Complete kit 



$39.95 



Order these from: 



The MicroMint Inc 
917 Midway 
Woodmere NY 11598 
(516) 374-6793 

Please add $2 for shipping and handling. New York residents please add 
7% sales tax. 



MARK GORDON 

COMPUTERS 

DIVISION OF MARK GORDON ASSOCIATES. INC. 

P.O. Box7 7,Charlestown, MA 02129 (617)4917505 



COMPUTERS 

Atari 800 W I 6I( 799.00 

Level-ll I6K Sysiem 659.00 

Model II G4K SyMem 3499.00 

I 61< Model III 859.00 

DISK DRIVES 
40 Track 5' • Inch drive 314.00 

80 Track 5 'A 544.00 

4 Disl. Drive Cable 39.00 

PRINTERS 

Centronics 730 599.00 

EpsonMX80B .499.00 

Centronics 737 849.00 

OUidata Microline 83 1044.00 

Integral Data 440C 999.00 

NEC 5510 w tractor . . 2679.00 

Oltidata Microline 80 599.00 

Diablo 630 2495.00 

MISC HARDWARE 

Expansion int TRS 80IOIt) 249.00 

Novation Cat modem 159.00 

I OK Memory Kit 4 1.99 

Leedex Monitor 109.00 

Printer Cable for above 49.00 

ISO-2 Isolator 54.00 

AC LINE FILTER 24.00 

STORAGE MEDIA 

Verbatim box 10-5' j 25.00 

Memorex box 10 5' a 22.00 

Plastic Storage Box 5.00 



OPERATING SYSTEMS 

NEWDOS by APrARAT INC 49.00 

NEWDOS+ by APPARAT INC 99.00 

MMS FORTH DISKETTE PRIMER 79.95 

NEWDOS 80 1 49.00 

DISKETTE TRS-80* 
BUSINESS SOFTWARE BY SBSG 

Free enhancements and upgrades 10 registered owners for 
ihecosi of media and mailing 30dayfree telephone sup 
port User reference on request 
Fully Interactive Accounting lockage. General Ledger. 

Accounts Tay able. Accounts Receivable and Payroll 

Report Generating 

Complete Package (requires 3 or 4 drives) $475.00 

Individual Modules (requires 2 or 3 drives) $125.00 

Inventory II (requires 2 or 3 driven) $ 99.00 

Mailing List Name &. Address II 

(requires 2 drives) $129.00 

Intelligent Terminal System ST 80 III $150.00 

The Electric Tencil f rom MiCh.iel Shrayer $150.00 

File Management Sysiem $ 49.00 



FINE PRINT 

TBS 80 is a Tandy Corporation uademark Useol aoove operating sys 
terns may require me use ol Radio Shach TRS DOS Radio Shack 
equipment surged to the will ana whim ol Radio Shack 

ORDERING INFORMATION 

We accept Visa ana Mastercharge We will Ship C D ceriilieo check 

or money oraeis only Massactiusetts residents add 5 percent sales tax 

To order call toll-tree 1-8QO-343-5206 

For inlormalion call 617-491 7505 

Tha Company cannot bo liable lor pictorial or typographical i 



Next Month: 

Add a disk controller and 32 
K-byte memory expansion to your 
TRS-80. m 

Big Trak is a registered trademark of the 
Milton-Bradley Company. 



Editor's Note: Steve often refers to 
previous Circuit Cellar articles as 
reference material for the articles he 
presents each month. These articles are 
available in reprint books from BYTE 
Books, 70 Main St, Peterborough NH 
03458. Ciarcia's Circuit Cellar covers ar- 
ticles appeating in BYTE from September 
1977 thru November 1978. Ciarcia's Cir- 
cuit Cellar, Volume II presents articles 
from December 1978 thru June 1980. 



BYTE's Bits 



Johns Hopkins 
Contest on 
Applications for the 
Handicapped 

Johns Hopkins University is sponsor- 
ing the First National Search for 
Applications of Personal Computing to 
Aid the Handicapped. The contest is be- 
ing funded jointly by the National 
Science Foundation and Radio Shack. 

The contest addresses the full spec- 
trum of physical and mental handicaps, 
including: learning disabilities, visual 
handicaps, hearing, language, neuro- 
muscular or neurological disorders, and 
limitations of movement. There are three 
separate categories of competition — stu- 
dent, amateur, and professional — with 
both cash and equipment prizes awarded 
in each category. Contestants must be 
residents of the United States. Categories 
of submission include: prototypes, com- 
puter programs, and system concepts/ 
ideas. Individual rights remain with the 
contestant. 

We applaud all parties concerned for 
conducting this worthy effort. 

The deadline for submissions is June 
30, 1981. For a descriptive flyer and 
further information, write to: 

Personal Computing to Aid the 

Handicapped 

Johns Hopkins University 

POB 670 

Laurel MD 20810B 



66 February 1961 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 38 on inquiry card. 



Circle 39 on inquiry card. 



Software Packages 

Evergreen Data Systems 

Evergreen Tax Package US1040 Tax return 

package wilh selected state schedules S1000 
Computerized Accounting & Tax Service 
Taxman* US 1040 tax return preparation. Con 

handle 29 schedules S3000 

CMC 
Legal Billing* Allows attorney to monitor charges 

based on hourly rates, costs, or (lot lees. 

All AR lunctions S2500 

Computer Management Systems 
General Ledger & Payroll* Single diskette based, 

easy to use program Writes checks, W-2's and 

914s. Ideal tor small retailer. S500 

Tek-Aids Industries, Inc. 
0S65U (ig-FORTH Hard disk mulli-user, chains with 

basic programs, requires OS-65U S250 

(ig-FORTH Stand-alone version ot the FORTH 

Interest Group Model S175 

BUS-I Original version, with GL, AR, AP 6 diskettes 

wilh new docs. S99 

BUS/DMS* Most current version ot BUS series. 

Special Si 50 discount tor PO 's submitted with 

original copies ot Digital 

Technology BUS-II SB50 

MEMTEST/2Neweditionolpopular memory testtor 

OSI hardware. 8" and 5" disk S50 

DCS Software Products 
WP/INT* Interface between WP-2 and any DMS file 

lor form letters S80 

Tra-Sta 
Amway Distributors Package Order entry/inventory 

Package lor direct Amway buyer Maintains 

commission structure S995 

BBS 
Data Director* Powerful data base manager. 

Command oriented, very interactive S995 

Tri-Comp 
System Exerciser Sell-prompting test routines for 

end user troubleshooting. S60 

Farragher and Assoc. 

Med-Bill Single doctor client billing S995 

Frisch Computer Systems 
Manufacturing Control System* Hard disk based 

Standalone inventory with job costing and 

bill-of-materials Extensively field tested S3500 
DQFLS 

DQ Mail* DMS interface for WP6502 form letters 
Version 12 S75 
DQ Justify right-hand copy justification and 

incremenlal spacing program VI 2 S50 

WP6502 OS65U Version of popular word 

processor. Versionl.2 S100 Version! 3 S250 
(JCSD System Users Society 
USUS Software Exchange Library 6 diskette set of 

UCSD Pascal programs, USUS membership S80 
Abacus Data Systems 
Mailer* Text processor plus key file/sort capability. 

Good moss moiler. S190 

Payroll* Thorough package for floppy or hard disk 

End User Maintenance Service recomm. S495 
General Ledger* Profit center support, journal 

based, (loppy or hard disk. S495 

Digital Technology 
BUS-II Manufacturer's original version SI 50 

*DMS Compatible 

Affiliated Dealers 

Creative Office Systems Indianapolis, Ind. 4624 I 

Small Business Systems, Inc. Gering, NE 6934 1 

Kansas Computer Liberal, KS 6790 1 

Custom Systems Development Wichita, KS 67214 

BIP Murphysboro, I L 62966 

Abacus Data Systems Greensburg, PA 1 5601 

Business Computer of Joliet Cresthill, IL 60435 

Business Data Systems, Inc. Bouldei; CO 80301 

Case Computer Bradley, IL 60915 

Computer Management Systems Mitchell. SD 57301 

CSB Houston, TX 77057 

Cybertronics Houston, TX 77084 

Data Buss Grayslake, IL 60038 

Data Services Computer Corp. Denver, CO 80239 

Delta Data Distributors Memphis. TN 38118 

Farragher & Assoc. Milwaukee, Wl 532 1 3 

Frisch Computer St Paul, M N 55 1 1 3 

International Automation New Kensinglon. PA 1 5608 

KMH Galesburg, IL 61401 

MAP Systems Peoria His , IL 6 1 6 1 4 

Specialized Computer Systems Jackson, M I 49204 

Taxman Salt Lake City, UT84115 

Tek-Aids Industries, Inc. Arlington Hts , IL 60004 

Tra-Sta Computer Shoppe Pueblo, CO 8 1 005 

TriComp Inc. Denver, CO 802 21 

Total Data Systems Fl. Collins, CO 80525 

Whitlock International, Inc. Detroit, Ml 48219 




WINS 

The Ohio Scientific Software Game 



Selecting software for your Ohio 
Scientific computer is a chancy task at 
best. There are few trustworthy ven- 
dors with a national reputation. There 
are no consistent quality standards 
and the documentation is 
often cryptic and inaccurate. 
If you are lucky enough 
to find a good 
package, there's 
no guarantee of 
ongoing sup- 
port. A wrong 
choice results 
in months of 
wasted time, 
effort, and money. 

With the Software 
Federation, you no longer 
take that risk. The 
Software Federation was 
formed by three of the 
largest Ohio Scientific hard- 
ware distributors to select and 
market quality software through 
reputable dealers nationwide. 

DEALERS 

The Software Federation 
soloes the dealer's problems by pro- 
dding tow cost access to high quality 
software with the sort of demonstra- 
tion packages, documentation, 
and support that the dealer needs 
to successfully sell machines. 

AUTHORS 

The Software Federation soloes 
the independent oendor's problems 




by prooiding a proprietary method 
of software protection, aggressioe 
enforcement of software licenses, a 
strong dealer base, primary support, 
and national adoertising. 

END USERS 

The Software Federation 
soloes the user's problems by 
prooiding quality software, 
exceptional documenta- 
tion, after -the- sale 
support, and optional 
software maintenance 
seroices. 

Why risk making 
the wrong choice? 
With the Software 
Federation, eoeryone 
wins! 
See the dealer in your 
area for a complete turnkey 
demonstration. 



Software Federation Inc. 

44 University Drive 
Arlington Hts,, IL 60004 
Phone: 312/259-1355 




A Beginner's 
Guide to Spectral Analysis 

Part 1: Tiny Timesharing Music 



Mark Zimmermann 

9410 Woodland Dr 

Silver Spring MD 20910 



We live in two worlds that co-exist 
in space and time; they touch each 
other and interpenetrate at every 
point and at every moment. In fact, 
each world contains the other within 
it. 

One is a world of forms, of colors, 
of sounds; the other is a world of 
complex numbers, of mathematical 
functions. Most people aren't aware 
of this second world, but that doesn't 
make it any less valid as an expres- 
sion of reality. It's not hard to peek 
into this "alternate universe": this ar- 
ticle and the accompanying programs 
will attempt to aid you in doing so. If 
a student devotes some time to the 
concepts suggested here, he'll find 
himself rewarded with a set of extra- 
ordinarily useful tools. Some facts 
which aren't obvious in one world are 
obvious in the other; some tasks 
which are slow, laborious, and ex- 
pensive in the first world become 
quick and cheap in the second. 

My description may sound a bit 
like Oriental mysticism, but it's not! 
This article will try to sketch an in- 
troduction to Fourier analysis, one of 
the most powerful developments in 
modern mathematics. It will empha- 
size the feel of the subject, not the 
complicated algebraic formalisms. 
No advanced mathematical training 
is required, but it may help to have 
access to a small computer for some 
parts of the discussion. The programs 
that I've written for illustrative pur- 
poses are in either BASIC or 6502 
assembly language, and were specifi- 
cally designed for the 8 K-byte Com- 
modore PET. It should be a fairly 
straightforward process to adapt 
these programs to comparable ma- 
chines. 



The first part of this article will in- 
troduce the one-dimensional Fourier 
transform, and emphasize its impor- 
tance to music and human perception 
of sound. Included is a "tiny time- 
sharing" program that is both edu- 
cational and enjoyable. It generates 
simple musical themes using the 
building blocks of intervals, and 
varies these themes via a series of in- 
versions. New musical elements are 
introduced pseudo-randomly, so the 
patterns never repeat, and the tone 
quality is also constantly varied. All 
of this uses only about 0.1% (yes, 



The "tiny timesharing" 

program generates 

simple musical themes 

using only 0.1 %of the 

computer's time. 

one-tenth of one percent!) of the com- 
puter's time, which allows other pro- 
grams to be run simultaneously with 
no noticeable loss of speed. 

In the second part of this article, I 
will outline the simple extension of a 
one-dimensional problem into a two- 
dimensional plane. The program that 
illustrates this process uses pictures 
drawn on the PET's video-display 
screen and transforms them by a pro- 
cess similar to that of making a holo- 
gram with coherent light. 

The references at the end of each 
part should be useful for anyone who 
wants more information on the topics 
encountered. You may also find it 
helpful to consult your neighborhood 
Fourier guru, who has probably 
chosen to be reincarnated as an elec- 



trical engineer or radio astronomer. 

The Frequency Domain 

The central idea of Fourier (or spec- 
tral) analysis is quite simple. One of 
the best ways to understand it is to 
think about a musical chord, pro- 
duced by simultaneously hitting sev- 
eral keys on a piano. Suppose you 
play a chord and want to record it — 
how can you do that7 

One way to preserve a chord for 
posterity would be to record it on a 
tape deck or (if you collect antiques) 
on a gramophone wax cylinder. In 
either case, the method of recording is 
essentially the same: the sound im- 
pulses are translated into magnetic 
field patterns, or into the wiggles of a 
groove, and stored just as your ear/ 
microphone perceives them. If you 
had an oscilloscope, you could dis- 
play the sound on a screen and photo- 
graph it. 

But there's also a completely dif- 
ferent way to save the chord. You can 
draw a musical scale and write down 
the notes that are hit. This scale 
doesn't show the moment-by-mo- 
ment variations of air pressure 
against your eardrums; instead, it 
relates something about the frequen- 
cy of these pressure waves, and the 
set of frequencies that is being created 
by the vibrating piano strings. 

A recording method that stores a 
sound as a function of time is said to 
work in the time domain. A method 
that breaks a sound up into its con- 
stituent frequencies and records the 
amount of each frequency component 
that went into the original sound is 
said to work in the frequency do- 
main. 

The usual musical notation for 



68 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



TO ORDER CALL (212) 687-5000 



H Ul M 



SUPEWRAIM" 



INTE3TEC 
DATA 
SY5TEMS 
64K 

ONLY 

$2995 




32K $2795 

More than an intelligent terminal, the SuperBrain outperforms many other 
systems costing three to live times as much. Endowed with a hefty amount ol 
available software (BASIC. FORTRAN, COBOL), the SuperBrain is ready to 
take on your toughest assignment. You name it! General Ledger, Accounts 
Receivable. Payroll, Inventory or Word Processing. . .the SuperBrain handles 
all of them with ease. FEATURES INCLUDE: 

• 2 dual-density miniffoppies with 360K bytes of disk storage • A CP/M Disk 
Operating System with a high-powered text editor, assembler and debugger 



Model QD 

7ZQK Bytes disk storage 
and 54K RAM 

S3895 



SUPER BRAIN HARD DISKS 



10 Megabyte 



16 Fixed-16 

Removable 



$4495 $9995 



APPLE II PLUS for P r/ce 



A complete self-contained computer system with APPLESOFT floating point 
BASIC in ROM, full ASC 1 1 keyboard in a light weight molded carrying case. 



Features Include: 



• auto-start ROM • Hi-Res graphics and 15 color video output 

• Expandable to 48K. 

Supertalker $279 Micromodem $379 

Disk 645 Superterm (24 x BO) 395 

Add-on Disk 495 Speechlab 229 

Pascal Card 495 Communication Card ... . 225 

Business Software 625 Modem 200 

Monitor 159 Graphics Printer 595 

Printer Card 180 Graphics Tablet 795 



[apple// 

IS FINALLY HERE 
128K RAM!! 




NEW96K 

80 Column 

Commodore 
CBM 

Basic 4.0 
Operating 
System 

• 80 column by 25 line display 

• 12" CRT 

• New screen editor 

• Split screen processing 

• Super fast string handling 

• 15 additional basic commands 

• Supports relative record processing 



Model 8032 

32K memory 

$1795 



NEW! 
Model 8096 

96K memory 

Call for price I 




NEW 8050 DUAL DISK SI 795 

1 million bytes on-line storage 

and DOS 2.0 operating system 

NEW 2031 SINGLE DISK $595 



Commodore Computer 

These low cost Commodore PET Business 
Computers have virtually unlimited business 
capabilities. Accounts Receivable, Inventory 
Records, Payroll, and i 
other accounting i :-*s:-.s^'*p.- 

functions. / | 

PET16N&32N/ sMIi 

COMPUTERS I 

• Full size keyboard 

• 16 or 32,000 
Bytes Memory 

• Level III 
Operating 
System 

• Full Screen ~ 
Editor, 

• Upper lowercase& 64 graphic characters 
PET DUAL 
FLOPPY DISK 

• Stores 360,000 
Bytes on-line 

• Microprocessor 
■^ — ■* controlled 

'• — • Uses single or 

dual sided floppies 
HI-SPEED PRINTER 
• 150 cnaracters per 
secorid • Up to 4 
copies 8" wide 
-j • Microprocessor 
Controlled • Prints 
All Graphics • Full 
Formatting Capability 



l 



PRINTERS, 



CENTRONICS SALE 

YOUR CHOICE 

779-2 or 737-3 



ONLY 

$895 



CENTRONICS 704 

180 cps Bi-Directtonal • Up lol5" 
gaper Width . 9 x 9 Matrix 
• Upper/Lower Case 

• Tractor Feed 

• RS-232 
Serial Interface 

$1795 

CENTRONICS 700-9 

$1 295 List $1895 

■ 60 cps • Up to 15" paper width 
• Tractor Feed ■ Parallel Interface 
for Apple & TRS-80 ■ 2 channel 
vertical forms! • Top of Form! 





VR-300 S1795 

(25cps Letter Quality) 

EPSON MX-80 S 645 

Paper Tiger 445 795 

Paper Tiger 460 1295 

MONITORS 

SANYO 12" GREEN $325 

BMC 12" GREEN 295 

SANYO 13" COLOR 495 

ZENITH 13" COLOR 395 

LEEDEX 12" B&W 159 



CENTRONICS 
737 Parallel $895 




Serial 



ANDERSON JAC0BS0N 

841 I/O Terminal Ideal for 
-ord processing and 
mall businesses. S 1 230 

ASCII Code 
15 CPS Printout 
High Quality Selectric Printing 
Reliable heavy duty mechanism 
Completely Refurbished by A.J.^ 
• Delivered FREE to nearest service center' 



CLOSE OUT SPECIALS! 



Ljit Special 

Chatsviorth Card Reader for TRS-80 750 450 

| Axiom 801 495 195 

[ Protollne PET to Centronics Interface ... . 199 49 

Microsomes PET/Ham Interface 125 49 

Exidy Sorcerer BK ,095 349 

TEXAS instrument. 39/4 $635 OveT 1000 SOftV/Bte 

(with 13" color Monitor) . _, . . ' . . . . 

tao&s, books, disks, 

Centronix 779-2 5895 inf#wv», wvno, """'"! 

on display. Come 
in and browse. 



XEROX 1730 

Letter Quality 

Special 
$2495 

List $2755 

" 40 CpS 

• Uses all 100 metal & plastic daisy wheel. 

■ Automatic bidirectional printing 

■ Fewer moving parts go Day On Site Warranty 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 
ON XEROX. CENTRONICS. 
SUPERBRAIN 





XYMEC HQ 1000 

with 10, 12; 15 Pitch & 
Proportional Spacing 

1 Z-80 controlled <fcO/lQC 
> Up to 198 columns JpfctWO 



V/SA* 



BUB 



Min. Credit Card Order $75 

NY residents add 3°'o sales tax 

• Same day shipment on prepaid and 

credit card orders 



TO ORDER CALL (212) 687-5000 h.JKHichim.ii-. 

The COMPUTER FACTORY """'"^^ri™" 8 ' ' LoM,> 



notes on a scale doesn't give enough 
information to completely recon- 
struct the original chord. Even if each 
piano key produces a pure tone with 
no harmonics or distortions, you 
should still specify more than which 
keys were punched. You must say 
precisely how loud each note in the 
chord was played and the precise time 
that each note began (ie: the ampli- 
tude and the phase of each pure note 
in the chord). Given that amount of 
data, the original sound can be repro- 
duced exactly. The frequency-domain 
method of recording then contains as 
much information as the conven- 
tional time-domain recording techni- 
que. 

That's really all there is to Fourier 
analysis. There are, of course, precise 
mathematical formulas for transla- 
tion from the time to the frequency 
domain, and back. There are also 
modern improvements on these for- 
mulas, such as the fast Fourier 
transform, which can do the same job 
in much less time than the old-fash- 
ioned method. But the basic ideas re- 
main the same: the Fourier transform 
is a technique for changing notation 
from one way to another in order to 



record the same information. 

There are many references (see re- 
ferences at the end of this article) 
that explain the mathematics of the 
Fourier transform. I'd like to avoid 
these, and try instead to explain the 
meaning of the transform, and the 
uses to which it can be put. 

Why Transform? 

I have already mentioned the ap- 
plication of Fourier analysis to music, 
and I'll return to this topic later. 
There are numerous other uses for the 
transform concept. Almost any 
wave-like phenomenon can show in- 
teresting behavior when looked at in 
the frequency domain. Light, when 
spread into a spectrum, reveals infor- 
mation about the source that pro- 
duced it: that's how astronomers 
determine the composition of distant 
stars. (The word "spectrum" is the 
source of the term "spectral 
analysis.") Radio signals, grouped at 
different frequencies, carry hundreds 
or thousands of simultaneous tele- 
phone calls, TV broadcasts, etc. A 
receiver simply performs a partial 
Fourier analysis in order to separate 
one- program from the crowd. Ocean 



FINDING SOLUTIONS 

AND BEING COMPETITIVE 

IS OUR BUSINESS. 

Having problems and looking for a 

computer to help solve them? 

Are you finding computer dealers 

come in one of two ways? Either 

Full system support with Full price 

or Take it or Leave it with Low 

price. At Omega we don't believe 

that you should have to make a 

choice. Yes, we're in business to sell 

products but also, to solve your 

problems. Our prices will be the 

lowest possible. Our support and 

product quality will be second to none. Check out our Mail Order prices in this 

ad (our retail prices will be higher). See if you don't agree with our first claim. 

For our second claim, call us with your data processing needs and problems. 

Better yet, come in and see us. Finding solutions and being competitive is our 

business. We never forget either of them. 




-tJ. 



tipple computer 

* Authorized Dealer 



APPLE II "PLUS" 16K 
48K 



S 929.95 
1079.95 



Apple II Accessories: 

Disk II with Controller & 3.3 DOS $535.00 

Disk II 2nd drive 435.00 

Graphics Tablet 665 00 

Language System with PASCAL 395.00 

Silentype Printer w/lnt 489.00 

Integer Firmware Card 152.00 

Z-80 Softcard 259.00 

Videx Videoterm 80 col Card 279.00 

Sanyo 12" Green Monitor 279 00 



Calculators: (S2.00 shipping charge) 
Hewlet Packard 

HP-85 CALL 

HP-67 $299.00 

HP-34C 127.00 

Texas Instruments 

TI-58C 109.00 

Cannon 

P10-D 80.00 

Sharp 

6200 98.00 

5100 89.00 



HP-41C $269.00 

HP-97 589.00 

HP-38C 127.00 

TI-59 209.00 

P7-D 80.00 

5813 35.00 

5102 80.00 



Mail Order Terms ot Sale: Price based on prepaid orders. Visa or Master Charge orders may have service charge added 
to purchase price. No COD'S Allow 14 working days tor personal and company checks to clear. All orders (unless 
specified in ad) within Continental U. S. shipped U.P S. no charge. APO or out of Continental U. S. write or call for 
snipping charges. All prices subject to change and all offers subject to withdrawl without notice. CA residents add 6% 

OMEGA MIGflC QOMPIITEFS 

The Problem Solving Company 3447 Torrance Boulevard • Torrance, California 90503 • (213) 370-9456 



waves can be resolved into frequency 
components, each traveling with its 
own speed. This approach helps, for 
example, in understanding how tsu- 
namis (tidal waves) are created by 
undersea earthquakes and travel 
thousands of miles across the water 
before cresting on a shore. 

Fourier analysis is also applicable 
to things that aren't functions of time. 
In calculating the heat distribution 
within a nuclear reactor core, one 
useful method involves breaking up 
the spatial dependence of the tem- 
perature into pieces that vary with 
different spatial frequencies. Similar 
techniques work to explain the shape 
of a soap film over a bent wire loop, 
the electrical field patterns inside a 
microwave cavity resonator, or the 
air density and pressure variations in- 
side an organ pipe. (In the latter two 
cases, time dependences also exist as a 
part of the problem; the time depen- 
dences can be easily solved once the 
spatial Fourier analysis problem is 
understood.) 

In recent years, myriad practical 
applications of spectral analysis have 
been developed, particularly in elec- 
trical engineering. If a signal is first 
transformed into the frequency do- 
main, it often becomes easy to filter 
out noise and interference. On the 
other hand, by scrambling frequency 
components you can make a voice 
incomprehensible (unless the 
scrambling pattern is known) and 
allow relatively secure com- 
munications over a channel that is 
not secure. Quite often, it's most effi- 
cient to manipulate a signal by trans- 
forming it into the frequency domain, 
working it over, and then trans- 
forming back; the cost of trans- 
forming is more than repaid by the 
speed and convenience of many oper- 
ations when applied to the frequency 
components of a function. 

In the field of computing, Fourier 
analysis concepts have proved to be 
extremely helpful. The invention of 
faster algorithms as an aid in multi- 
plying large numbers got its start 
from fast Fourier transform theo- 
rems. The spectral test for random 
number generators, one of the most 
powerful tests known for detecting 
non-random biases, is a Fourier 
technique. Even before electronic 
computers existed, mechanical "cal- 
culating engines" were built to do 
Fourier analysis because of the impor- 
tance of the subject. 



70 February 1981 © BYT1 Publications Inc 



Circle 40 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 41 on inquiry card. 



cs or mnvim 



HCrC'S Cfedt Whether you're just s!;irt intc out 

«»,«—«> fS r ' n electronics or moving up froni an 

"CiVS IOr analog VOM to ;i digital nuilrimeter, 

eleCtrOfllCS voy'll Ix* Kmart to make sure thai 

enthusiasts on y " u ''y miim . ym [ mon T s ■ v,,nh - 



f ^ — j II I \ I Mil .1U1II II I'M (| I H 

Small DUOgetS. performance I )MM. Ik- sun 

consider the new I) SIM) fro: 

NOW VOU Can [Viced at only $125* this dc 

fake home six-function handheld I)M.\ 

«■» vt lr wwjfKM available now ;ii select eleei 

a t lUKe UJMJM supplv stores throughout th 
for $125t" 'i' 111 ' ' \ KM offers 0.,Vr 



available now ;it select electronics 
supplv stores throughout the I'.S. 

the I) SIX) offers (1,7 r basic dr 
accuracy (live limes better than 
analog voltmeters), a razor-sharp .''>': 
digit LCD readout, unsurpassed 
overload protection, and true, 
one-hand operation. 



I his hardworking basic 
measurement multimeter is designed 
from the inside nut for long life and 
reliability. All 1) 800 specifications 
are traceable to the National Bureau 
of Standards. 

As part of Fluke's new Series I) 
line of low-cost digital multimeters, 
the I) SIX) carries a limited one-year 
parts and labor warranty and conies 
complete with the battery, and 
safety-designed lest leads. 

Ask your supplier about the 
I) MX), then compare it fcature-for- 
Icalure with any other low-cost 
DMM. You'll find that for only $125J 
there's never been more multimeter 
than the new I) SIX) from Fluke. 



From the world 
leader in DMM s 
Now we've designed 
one for you. 




•Suggested U.S. list price 



odoes. 1-800-42(5-9182 



FLUKE 



10 DAY FREE RETURN 



NEC THE FIRST NAME IN LETTER 
QUALITY PRINTERS. 

CompuMart otlers beautiful print 
quality with NEC Spinwriter ter- 
minals Both KSR and RO versions 
give unsurpassed hard copy out- 
put. CALL 




ANNADEX 

132 Col. Printer High quantity at a 
super price. Dot Matrix, serial par- 
allel 8c current loop standard. ISO 
c.p,s. Bi-Direction. S1650. 



CENTRONICS PRINTERS 

The incredible Model 737. The 
closest thing to letter quality print 
tor under Sl.OOO. 
737-1 (Parallel Interlace) - S899. 



NEW FROM INTEGRAL DATA 
THE IDS 445 PRINTER 

Priced lower than the 440 
and equipped with a better 
print head. Advanced tech- 
nology strikes! 

IDS 445 w/Graphics Capabilities 
S894. 

IDS 445 w/o Graphics Capabili- 
ties S795. 

NEWI IDS 560 132 Column 
Graphics Printer S1695. 
TheIDS460 S1295. 
Features include; Correspon- 
dence quality printing, high- 
resolution graphics capability, 
programmable print justification. 



Omni Printers 
bom Texas 
Instruments 

The 810 - Lfat S1895. SALE! S1795. 
The 820 (Ro) Package — 
Includes machine-mounted 
paper tray and cable. A com- 
pressed print option and device 
forms control are standard fea- 
tures. $2,155. 

The 820 (KSR) Package - 
Includes lull ASCII Keyboard plus 
all of the features on the RO 
S2395. 




APPLE 

We carry the most complete 
inventory of Apple computers, 
peripherals, and software. CALL! 
Can Best Selling Apple System. 
Save over S250 on our most pop- 
ular Apple System. System 
includes a 48K Apple U. Apple 
Disk. D053.3, 8< Controller, and a 
Sup R. Mod RF Modulator, 
list: S2070. 

CompuMait Sale Price: $1795. 



COMMODORE 

CompuMart has delivered more 
Commodore computers in the 
US. than any other dealer. Call 
us now for low prices and spe- 
cial deals. 
NEW FOR PET, 
Visicalc (Need 32K 8c a disk 
drive) $199. 
Word Pro L 
$29.95 - Word 
Pro 2, $99.95 
- Word Pro 3, 
$199.95 - 
Word Pro 4, 
$299.95. 




NEW bom Apple foi the Apple 
11 

Dos 3.3 Convert disks to 16 sector 
format lor 23% more storage and 
faster access $60. 

SOFTWARE FROM APPLE 
Apple Plot. The perfect graphic 
complement for Visicalc. $70 
Dow Jones News 8c Quoles $95 
Adventure (Uses 48K) $35 

DOS Tool Kit $75 

Apple Fortran $200 

Tax Planner $120 

FROM PERSONAL soltware 
Visicalc $149 

Desk Top Plan $99 

NEW FROM MUSE 
The Voice $39.95 

Super Text $99.00 

Address Book $49.95 

Miscellaneous Apple II 
AccessoiieS: 

Easy Writer (80 coL need a 
Videx) $249 

Easy Mover $49 

Easy Mailer $69 

HARDWARE ACCESSORIES FOR 
APPLE 

Silentype Printer w/x face $595. 
Super Sound Generator (mono) 
$159 (stereo) $259 

light Pen $249 

X-IO Controller (plugs into pad- 
dle port) $49 



Dysan Diskettes — Single side. 

Single density, Hard or Soft Sector 

$5. ea. 

Memoiex 3401's — 5 1 A discs 

$3.25 with hub ring for Apple 

$3.50. 

Memoiy IntegratedCircuits — 

Call lor qty. discounts when 
ordering over SO units. 
Motorola 4116 (200 Nanosecond 
Plastic) $4.50 ea. 
Faiichild 2114(Standard Power. 
Plastic) $4.50 ea. 



COMPUMART stocks the com- 
plete line of MATROX PRODUCTS. 

Call lor specs. 

COMPUMART now offers the 
ENTIRE DEC LSI-11 PRODUCT LINE 
Call lor prices 8c delivery. 

NOVATION CAT to 
ACOUSTIC MODEM 

Answer Originate, 300 Baud Bell 

108. Low Profile Desiga $179.00 

NEW! D-CAT 

Direct Coupler from Novation 

$199. 



EXIDY SUPER SALE 

We want to clean out our inven- 
tory of Exidy computers To do 
this we've priced our Exidy 
equipment so low you'll have to 
call us for prices. 

New liom VIDEX! — Video Term. 
SO Col. x 24 line, 7x9 Matrix plug 
in compatible board for the 
Apple n. Price $325 without 
graphics EPROM With graphics 
EPROM $350. 

S.S.M. Serial 8c Parallel Apple 
Interface $225 

ABTs Numeric Key Plan $110 
California Microcomputer 
Keyboard ..a^ass^ $195 



Mountain Computei — Expan- 
sion accessories for your Apple 
Introl - lO System $289 

Super Talker $299 

The Music System $545 

ROM plus board w/Keyboard 
filter $199 

Clock Calendar $280 

16 Channel A to D Converter 
$350 

Apple Expansion Chassis $650 
ROM Writer $175 



NEW bom Lear Sieglei! 

We have the following Lear 
Siegler Terminals in stock at 
prices too low to print — Call lor 
quotes. 

ADM — 3A Indus- 
tries favorite 
dumb terminal 
lor some very 
smart reasons. 
ADM — 3A + 
NEW from Lear 
Siegler. CALL! 
IT S HERE! - It 
is the new 
Intermediate Terminal 
from Lear Siegler. Call for details. 




Limited Time Ober, Oux Hazel- 
tine prices slashed again! 

Haezltine 1410 

List 3850 Compumart $749 
Hazeltine 1420 
List $995 CompuMart $825 
Hazeltine 15CO 
List $1095 CompuMart $965 
Hazeltine 1510 

List $1395 CompuMart $1135 
Hazeltine 1520 
List $1585 CompuMart $1199 
Hazeltine 1552 
list $1395 CompuMart $1235 




Compum art's exclusive ATARI 
SPECIALS 

ATARI 8CO Personal Computer 
System — Comes with 8CO oper- 
ators Manual. 16K Rany Mem- 
ory module, IOk ROM 
Operating System, 
Power Supply, TV 
Switch Box $950. 



EXCLUSIVE bom CompuMart! 
Special Ofier. Zenith Coloi 
Video Monitor tor $379! 

NEW FROM SANYO - Four Great 
Monitors at Low CompuMart 
Prices. Sanyo's new line of CRT 
data display monitors are 
designed for the display of 
alphanumeric or graphic data. 

9 " Sanyo Monitor $169. 

12 " Sanyo Monitor $289. 

12 " Sanyo Monitor with green 

screen $299. 

13" Sanyo Color Display Monitor 

$495. 



SEND FOR OUR 
FREE CATALOG 




< 



HP-41C Calculator $288.00 

Memory Modules: For storing 
programs or up to 2,000 linesof 
program memory . $45.00 ,-'-;- . 
"Extra Smart" Card 
Reader. Records pro- 
grams and data back 
onto blank mag- 
cards . $199.' 
The 
Printer. 
Upper and 
Lower case, 
High resolution 
plotting, Portable Thermal 

operation $355.00 

Application Modules ... $45.00 




NEWI The PMC-80, The new 

computer that's software com- 
patible with the TRS-8Q Level 11 
16K at $645. 

ACCESSORIES FOR PMC - 80 
EXP-lOO S-lOO Bus Expander 
Disk. Printer, RS232 I/O $410. 

S-32K S-lOO Bus 32K RAM Board 
for EXP-lOO $295. 

CAB-40 Cable 12 " long ribbon 

cable 

lor EXP-lOO. -- t $25. 




PERIPHERALS 

Atari 410 Program Recorder 
(FREE w/purchase of Atari 
8CO) $89.95 

Atari 810 Disk Drive 
($100 off with purchase) 

$699.95 
NEW Dual Disk double density 

$1499.95 
825 Printer (Centronics 737) 

$995.00 
RS232 Interface w/Cable 
$249.95 
NEW! light Pens $74.95 
NEWI Visicale for Atari ATARI' 

$199.00 



A 



IMPORTANT ORDERING INFORMATION All orders must include 4% 
shipping and handlin g. Mass. residents add 5% sales tax. Michigan 
residents 4% lor sales tax. Phones open irom 8;30 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.. 
Mon-Fri: 1 1:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. Sat. RO.'s accepted lrom Dun & 
Bradstreet rated companies-shipment contingent upon receipt of 



signed purchase order. Sale prices valid lor month ol magazine 
date only-all prices subject to change without notice. Our Ann 
Arbor retail store is open 11 :00 am. to 7:00 p.m. Tues.-Fri.. 10:00 a.m. 
to 5:00 p.m. Saturdays. Stop by and visit. 




CompuMart's Microllex 65 Sys- 
tem lor your AIM Includes: 
Adapter Buffer Module w/4-slot 
module stack. 8K RAM module, 
16K PROM/ROM module, Asyn- 
chronous communications Inter- 
face, and Power Supply $1,29 
Call 01 writer for our complete 
Microllex 65 brochure 



HP-S5 

Hewlett-Packard's Personal Com- 
puter lor Industry, This extremely 
portable computer features 
extended BASIC to solve your 
problems quickly and efficiently 
along with an advanced 
graphics system to enhance 
communication. 
HP-S5 ACCESSORIES 
We carry H.P. Peripherals (Disk 
Drives to Graphics Plotters) 
Enhancements (BASIC Training, 
General Statistics, Financial Deci- 
sion Math. Linear Programming 
$95 ea).- HP-85 Accessories. 
(Enhancement ROMs, ROM 



ROCKWELL AIM 65 

Our AIM system includes 4K AIM 
with BASIC interpreter assembler. 
Power Supply, Cassette recorder 
& Enclosure $79 . 

4K ATM -65 $499. 

PL65 High Level Language $125. 
Paper lor the AIM (roll) $2.50 

Rockwell's 4-slot 
Motherboard (sale) $175. 



drawer. Overhead Transparency 
Kit), Supplies (Plotter Pens, Tape 
Cartridges),- Interface Modules 
(HP-IB Interface, HP-IB Intercon- 
nect Cables, Serial (RS-232C) 
Interface Module). 
We can get your every HP 
peripheral made for the HP-85. 
CALL FOR COMPLETE DETAILS 8c 
SPECS. 

The 
HP-85 




Quality, Versatility, 
Portability 



CompuMart has been serving the 
computer needs of industry since 1971. 

We stock, for immediate shipment, only 
those products from the finest micro-computer 
manufacturers. 

And any product, except software, can 
be returned within lO days for a full refund — 
even if you just change your mind. 

We also honor all manufacturers' 
warranties. Our expert technicians will 
service any product we sell that cannot 
be better, or faster, serviced by the man- 
ufacturer's local service center. 



Call us for more information on products, 
product configuration and service. Our 
phones are open Monday thru Friday, 8:30 
a.m.to 700 p.m. and Saturday HOO a.m. to 
400 p.m. 

We have a staff of highly knowledgeable 
sales people waiting to hear from you, 
and to help. 

Because service is what we're 
all about. 




800-343-5504 



In Mass. Call 617-491-2700 



SYSTEMS 




iCOMPUMART 



65 BENT STREET, DEPT. 000, RQ BOX 568 
CAMBRIDGE, MA 02139 



Circle 42 on inquiry card. 



Listing 1: RMS Spectrum Plot for the Commodore PET. This program calculates and 
displays on the screen the Fourier components produced by a given bit pattern in the 
PET's shift register. The data is "played" with some extra hardware, as detailed in figure 
1. 

1 REM N-BIT POWER SPECTRUM ANALYZER, COPYRIGHT 1979 MARK ZIMMERMANN 

10 INPUT "NUMBER OF BITS"; NB: INPUT "HIGHEST HARMONIC"; HH 

30 NM = NB - 1 : DIM S(NM), C(NM), F(NM), TS(NM,NM), TC(NM.NM) 

40 FOR I = 0TONM: X = 2*t*I/NB: S(I) = SIN(X)/ir: C(I) = COS(X)/?r: NEXT I 

50 INPUT "NOTE (1 TO 255)"; NT: POKE 59467,16: POKE 59464,NT 

60 FOR 1 = TO NM: FOR J = TO NM: X = I*J: Y = X+I: X = X-NB*INT(X/NB): 

Y = Y-NB*INT(Y/NB) 

70 TS(I,J) = S(Y) - S(X): TC(I,J) = C(X) - C(Y): NEXT J: NEXT I 

80 REM SET UP MATRICES TO ALLOW SPEEDY INTEGRATIONS LATER 

100 INPUT "TONE QUALITY"; D: IF D<256 THEN POKE 59466,D 

1 10 DD = D: REM MAKE BINARY REPRESENTATION OF D IN LINE 120 

120 FOR I = NM TO STEP - 1: F(I) = DD-2*INT(DD/2): DD = INT(DD/2): NEXT I 

130 PRINT "[cls]";D;" = ";: FOR 1 = TO NM: PRINT F(I);: NEXT I: PRINT 

150 FORK = l TOHH: X = K-NB*INT(K/NB): C=0:S = 

160 FOR J = TO NM: C = C + TS(X,J)*F(J): S = S + TC(X,J)*F(J): NEXT J 

170 C=C/K: S = S/K: A = SQR(C*C + S*S) 

180 PRINT "[home]"; : FOR I = 1 TO STEP - 0.05: IF A > I THEN PRINT TAB(3*K); " ♦ "; 

190 PRINT: NEXT I 

200 NEXT K: FOR 1 = 1 TO HH: PRINT TAB(3*I- 1);I;: IF I> 8 THEN PRINT "[cl]"; 

210 NEXT I: PRINT 

220 GOTO 100 



100K 



GND | — s. 

(PIN N ) I ? ~ 



15/iF 

-H( — o 



.0.01/tF 



TO AMPLIFIER 



-o 



m 




SPEAKER 



2.2 K 
CB2 [ ^> VIAr- 




2N2222 



Figure 1: Circuits to adapt the PET to a common audio amplifier (top), or to produce 
an audio output directly (bottom). 



Music and the Fourier Transform 

Unlike the other senses, the ear 
seems to work naturally in the fre- 
quency domain. Physiologically this 
may result from the structure of the 
cochlea in the inner ear; sounds of 
different frequencies stimulate dif- 
ferent spatially separated areas (so 
that the motion of the eardrum is 
Fourier transformed!). It is both in- 
teresting and educational to experi- 
ment with sounds of various frequen- 
cy spectra. A microcomputer can be a 
great aid to this kind of experimenta- 
tion, since it can reliably generate 



precise, easily modified waveforms, 
as well as perform the mathematical 
work required to calculate the spec- 
trum of any particular wave. Both the 
pitch and the tone quality are vari- 
able. 

The program RMS Spectrum Plot 
(see listing 1) was designed for just 
this kind of experiment. The mathe- 
matical parts can be run on any com- 
puter that understands BASIC; on the 
PET, the spectrum is graphically plot- 
ted on the video display, but a nu- 
merical output would be an accept- 
able alternative. This program also 



makes use of the recirculating shift- 
register in the MOS Technology 6522 
VIA (Versatile Interface Adapter) in- 
tegrated circuit in the PET. The VIA 
has an output to pin CB2 of the PET's 
port edge connector. Any trivial am- 
plification circuit (see figure 1) can be 
used to amplify and isolate this out- 
put to give an audible tone. Many 
other microcomputers have similar 
tone-generation capabilities; other- 
wise, a separate waveform generator 
may be used to study the sounds that 
are being Fourier analyzed. 

RMS Spectrum Plot performs a 
straightforward N-bit power-spec- 
trum analysis. For use on the PET and 
most other microcomputers N = 8 is 
the case of interest, but there is no 
harm in making a more general pro- 
gram and allowing for an arbitrary 
N. (Note that for N not equal to 8, the 
tones produced by the PET's shift 
register are not the same as the tones 
being analyzed by the program. Also 
note that for N greater than 16, PET 
BASIC w ill not correctly handle the 
array look-up operations for arrays 
TS and TC, which would need to 
have more than 256 elements.) I 
won't go into the mathematical oper- 
ations that are being performed in the 
course of the spectral analysis: some 
of the references cited later do that in 
great detail. Instead, 111 try to explain 
the results, the physics and the physi- 
ology that the program helps explore. 

Earlier I mentioned that in order to 
describe a sound completely in the 
frequency domain, you must provide 
more than just the list of frequencies 
that went into the original sound. A 
complete specification also requires 
the amplitude of each frequency com- 
ponent and its phase. By phase, I 
mean a measure of where a sinusoidal 
signal is in its cycle of 0° to 360° at 
some moment of time. (For example, 
the functions sin(f) and cos(f) look 
very similar, but one is 90° out-of- 
phase with the other.) Two sounds 
with the same set of component fre- 
quencies and the same amplitude can 
look completely different when dis- 
played on an oscilloscope, and they 
make completely different wiggles in 
a phonograph groove (see figure 2). 

So, phase information is crucial for 
the accurate reconstruction of the 
original sound. High-fidelity am- 
plifier and speaker advertising em- 
phasize this — you must spend lav- 
ishly in order to get really good, 
precise sound reproduction. Or must 



74 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 43 on Inquiry card. 



For those special people who've 
stepped ahead with a mini-computer 







maxej 



Mini-FW 



■BBAmnhShB 



maxell 

Mini-Floppy Disk 





Maxell offers a way to stay ahead. 



A Maxell 5Va" Mini-Disk will consistently let you maxi- 
mize the capability of your system today. And as your 
involvement with it grows, tomorrow as well. Maxell 
Mini-Disks are ail made with the same exacting 100% 
certification and critical dependability of the Maxell 8" 
Floppy Disk. So you know your 5Va" Maxell Mini-Disks 
meet or exceed the same ISO and Shugart specifica- 
tions industry requires. 



There are double density Maxell single and double- 
sided 5 1 /4" Mini-Disks for soft and hard sector systems. 
And 8" Maxell Floppy Disks for every disk drive config- 
uration. See your computer supply dealer or write to us 
for more information. If you are a computer products 
dealer, write for the growing opportunities Maxell 
Business Products Division offers you with our 8" Floppy 
and 5Va" Mini-Disks. 



maxell 




BUSINESS PRODUCTS DIVISION 

Maxell Corporation of America, Business Products Division, 60 Oxford Drive, Moonachie, N.J. 07074 Tel: 201-440-8020 



1111 

f(t) = sin(t) + — sin(3t) + — sin(5t) + — sin(7t) + — sin(9t) 
3 5 7 9 




1111 

f(t) = sin(t) + — sin(3t) sin(5t) + — C0S(7t) sin(9t) 

3 5 7 9 

Figure 2: Different sounds that are composed of the same frequencies. These wave- 
shapes are made up of the same component frequencies, but with a variation in phase 
between them. 



you7 The program in listing 1 allows 
you to see the difference that phase 
information makes in perceived tone 
quality. In my experiments, I've 
found it to make no difference what- 
soever. This agrees with most of the 
unbiased technical references I've 
read on the subject. The human ear is 
a marvelous Fourier analyzer as far as 
separating sounds into their compo- 
nent frequencies, but the ear seems to 
throw away almost all data about the 
phase of the sounds. (Perhaps some 
phase information helps to determine 
whether sounds are coming from the 
left, right, or in front of a listener, but 
that too is unclear.) 

Even without phase information, 
sounds of the same fundamental fre- 
quency produced by RMS Spectrum 
Plot can reveal an interesting variety 
of textures as their bit patterns are 
changed. The program allows the 
user to set the shift register shift rate 
by choosing the value of the variable 
NT, between 1 and 255. The fun- 
damental frequency of the output is 
then determined by the simple for- 
mula: 



frequency = (62,500 Hz)/(NT +2) 

For example, NT = 140 closely ap- 
proximates the standard frequency of 
440 Hz, the note A above middle C. 

Once the frequency of the note is 
chosen, RMS Spectrum Plot allows 
you to hear what an arbitrary bit pat- 
tern (waveform) sounds like, while 
the machine does a spectral analysis 
of the pattern and displays the 
results. These notes are composed of 
a fundamental frequency component, 
called /, plus varying amounts of 
sound energy at frequencies 2f, 3f, 
4f,... — the harmonics of the fun- 
damental tone. After line 170 is ex- 
ecuted, for each frequency KXf, the 
variables C and S contain the amount 
of the Kth harmonic of the signal 
which looks like a cosine (in C) or like 
a sine (in S). A = SQR(C XC + SxS) 
is the amplitude of the Kth harmonic 
(the thing that the ear is sensitive to); 
it is this amplitude A which is plotted 
on the screen (see photos la, lb and 
lc for examples). 

The best thing to do now is to stop 
reading and to experiment a bit with 






<APPLE WORLD 

3-D ANIMATED COLOR GRAPHICS 
Written in machine code. 
The program made famous on national T.V.I 
by Paul Lutus 



APPLE WORLD turns your Apple into a sophisticated 
graphics system capable of creating animated 
three-dimensional color images, protecting them in 
true perspective on the screen, rotate them, move 
them closer, furtheraway, and many other exciting and 
imaginative things. 

Draws objects with 65,000 points per side. 

A powerful screen-oriented text editor is included to 
facilitate image fomation. This program was recently 
featured on Tom Snyder's Prtme Time Saturday TV 
Show and is now available for sale. 

APPLE WORLD'S powerful editor is so easy to use that 
children wilt love it. Youcan now "sketctV'your dream 
house, boat, car, or fantasy empire. Then view it as it 
would be seen from 10.000 feet, or you can ZOOM in 
until the screen is filled with a doorknob. You could 
then go inside and move from room to room 
examining furniture placement as your screen rotates 
within the room. Images or specific parts of images 
can easily be saved to disk or printer. 

Does all this sound like science fiction? 

You wontthinksoafteryou have visited Apple World. 

INTRODUCTORY PRICE $59.95 

36 page manual included 

For 48K Apple II or Plus with Disk 



3-D 









SUPERGRAPHICS 

& 3-D GAME DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM IN COLOR 
' ny Paul Lutus 

Watch colorful butterflys. birds, fly across your Apple 
or Atari screen with true3dimensional perspective. 
Have rocket ships fly out at you in this incredible high 
speed graphics package. 3-D SUPERGRAPHICS" is 
a 6502 machine language program that will 
interface to your Basic or machine language 
programs or games using simple ■'DOS-like" commands. 

Fealuras include: 

• Simple image entry through editor 

• Objects up to 256 points per side 

• Uses all hi-res colors 

• Allows mixed colored text & graphics 
for promots and captions 

• Translates on 3 axes 

• Individual axis scales 

• 21 different commands 

• Rotate object 1.4° to 360° 
increments at machine speeds 

FOR 48K APPLE II OR PLUS WITH 
DISK II $39.95 FOR DISK 

FOR ATARI 800 WITH 40K MEMORY 
(DISK OPTIONAL) 

' $39.95 FOR TAPE 



OTHER SOFTWARE 

APPLE COMPUTERS 

Super Space Wars S 9.95 

States & Capitals 9.95 

Moving Point 

Average 19.95 

Stock Options 24.95 

Finance 12.95 

Bonds 12.95 

COMMODORE PET 

Slock Options 24.95 

Finance 12.95 

Bonds 12.95 

Stock Analyzer 22.95 

Mortgage 14.95 

Space Intruders ("Best 

Game of 1979").. 19.95 

Jury/Hostage 9.95 

Kentucky Derby/ 

Roulette 9.95 

Alien I.G./Tank 9.95 

Tunnelvision/Maze 

Chase 14.95 

Submarine Attack 9.95 

Battle of Midway 7.95 

Laser Tank Battle 9.95 

Swarm 14.95 

Baseball 9.95 

Super Startrek 14.95 

PET Music Box 29.95 



76 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



ATTENTION APPLE & PET OWNERS 

MARCH 10,1981 

will mark the beginning of a new era in Microcomputer Software. A Relational 
Database Management System and an Intelligent Accounting System will then 
be available for Apple and PET users. 



Request Thinker 



Relational Query System for Management 

• Most powerful database scheme known 

• First TRUE relational database management system (ALL records 
are cross-indexed to ALL other records!) 

• Multikeyed random access (No sorts ever) 

• Sophisticated screen formatting & data entry (Like on IBM 3270!) 

• Full report writer 

• Extensive search capabilities 

• Automatic data compression for increased disk capacity 

• Records up to 4K in length 

• Interfaces to Visicalc", The Source'", and word processors 

• Much more! 



Accounting^ Software that thinks for itself. 

EASY TO USE— 

Fully Integrated Accounting System 

The THINKER'" consists of 7 comprehensive interactive modules, 
with all transactions applied immediately and the results are 
instantaneously accessible. They are: 

• ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE • ACCOUNTS PAYABLE • SALES 
ORDER ENTRY . PURCHASE ORDER ENTRY • INVENTORY 
CONTROL • GENERAL LEDGER • MAILING LIST 



FLEXIBILITY— 

Software That Grows With Your Business 

The THINKER" utilizes the D YNAF1LE'" Multi-Keyed Fil Allocation 
Scheme which dynamically manages file length and records to meet 
the businessman's needs and will automatically extend itself to work 
on hard disks without any program modification. No disk space is 
wasted because the system automatically recaptures space when 
records aredeleted. DYNAFILE'" utilizes a sophisticated indexing 
scheme, allowing direct access to any record- Machine language 
programming insures DYNAFILE*" speed, reliability, and integrity 



SUPER KRAM 



Now With Multi-Key Capabilities For Apple & Pet 



by Ken Gerrnann 



Since KRAM™ was introduced in 1 979 it has fast become known as the quickest 
and most powerful access method for serious Apple and Pet users. Now, after 
hundreds of requests we have added MULTI-KEY, MULTI-INDEX, functions, 
as well as increasing processing speed. 



IBM/370 users have VSAM (Virtual Storage Access Method} to 
provide fast, flexible keyed-access to their data. Now SUPER KRAM 
(Keyed Random Access Method), from United Software of America, 
gives Apple and Pet users the same flexibility, substantially 
increasing the processing power of the Apple and Pet. 

Until SUPER KRAM the only "random access" capability in the 
Apple and Pet consisted of a crude form of "relative record" 
processing. While this is usable for very simple applications, it (alls 
far short of the needs of today's business and analytical 
applications. Using SUPER KRAM records may be processed by 
any one of multiple "Key" values, which may consist of any kind of 
data: numbers, letters, special characters, etc. Even Apples's long- 
awaited DOS 3.3 doesn't have anything like this!! 



KRAM™ 2,0 Only $99.95 
SUPER KRAM™ Only $175 



KRAM™ 2.0 Regular Features 

• Written in 6502 machine code 
Basic compatible 

• Create/Open a dataset 

• Put record by key 

• Add & delete records by key 

■ Get any record by Full/Partial key 

• Access by any key in as littie as .2 sec. {.1 sec. with Corvus disk) 

• Supports multipledisks 

• Read next or previous record 

• Dynamic space allocation 

• Dynamic space reclamation 

• Dynamic index compression 

■ Files never need reorganization 

■ Compatible with language systems 



SUPER KRAM'S™ Added Features 

• MULTIKEY SUPPORT — Allowing simultaneous access to a 
KRAM file by more than one key field. 

• HI-SPEED READ— This feature allows increased I/O speed up to 
60% faster during processing of SUPER KRAM read next, read 
previous, put and delete requests. 

• IMPROVED INDEX ARCHITECTURE — Allowing faster index 
searchers and more efficient disk space utilization. 

• INTEGRATED BASIC COMMANDS — Allowing SUPER KRAM" 
commands to be coded in-line with Basic, providing easier usage 
ol KRAM than ever before. 

• USER-SPECIFIABLE BUFFER POOL — Allowing the user to 
specify how many KRAM files are allowed open at one time; will 
support any number of KRAM files. 

• LOGICAL RECORDS (KEYS MAY BE NON-UNIQUE)— Records 
added to the KRAM f iies are immediately accessible by any of the 
defined keys for the file (Automatic Upgrade). 

• KRAM 2.0 files are totally compatible with SUPER KRAM 







750 3RD Avenue, 

New York NY 10017 

(212) 682-0347 Telex 640055 



UNITED 
SOFTWARE 
OF 
AMERICA 



Look for the RED-WHITE-BLUE 
United Software Display at your local 
computer dealer, or send check or 
moneyorder, plus $3.00 shipping to: 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

KRAM is a trade mark of United Software of America. 








Photo 1: Sample runs of RMS Spectrum Plot, 
analysis of the sound. 



The program "plays" an arbitrary bit pattern while displaying a power-spectral 



the program. Try to discover which 
bit patterns are indistinguishable to 
the ear; see which ones you like best. 
(My favorite is 00101101, which has 
no even harmonics and sounds rather 
like a clarinet.) 

Distinctive Voices 

The bit patterns that produce 
distinct frequency spectra are the 
basic building blocks for generating 
shift-register-type music. You can 
certainly find all seventeen different 
8-bit voices by trial and error or long 
and tedious searching, but such an 
approach becomes much more dif- 
ficult as the number of bits increases. 
In any case, there is a better way to 
find the set of interesting bit patterns: 
use a computer! The program Music 
Generator (listing 2) uses a technique 
that is simple, yet interesting, and ap- 
plicable to many other problems. 

In setting up the problem of finding 
all distinct voices, the first thing is to 
determine how two bit patterns can 
be "equivalent." (This is involved 
with the mathematical concept of a 
group, and is actually a good intro- 
duction to that subject.) First, it is ob- 
vious that patterns like 00000001 and 
00001000 and 10000000 are all equiv- 
alent since they look the same (a 
single 1 and seven 0s) once they've 
started cycling around in the shift 
register. Similarly, 00101101 and 
10100101 are equivalent: the second 
pattern results from applying five 
rotate-left operations to the first. We 
can call the operation which takes the 
leftmost bit of a bit pattern and 
moves it to the right end ROL for 
rotate-left. Any patterns which can 
be converted into each other by a 
series of ROL operations are equiva- 
lent. 



But there are other ways in which 
two bit patterns can be equivalent. 
Consider the patterns 11111101 and 
00000010. If you graph these pat- 
terns, you can see that the waveforms 
to which they correspond are exactly 
the same, except for a shift of the 
zero-voltage level and a change of po- 
larity. The power spectra of these 
patterns are also the same, except for 
the zero-frequency component which 
the ear can't hear and which isn't 
plotted by RMS Spectrum Plot. (The 
zero-frequency component is just the 
average of the bits, eg: V 8 for the pat- 



tern 11111101.) Since these patterns 
are the same as far as the ear is con- 
cerned, they should also be called 
equivalent. In binary arithmetic, the 
relation between these patterns is that 
each is the l's complement of the 
other: all Is are changed to 0s, and 
vice versa. Since the l's complement 
of a binary number / is just 
11111111-/ (if / has 8 bits), it's easy to 
program in BASIC. We can call this 
operation INV for inverse, and add it 
to the list of operations that trans- 
form bit patterns into other, equiva- 
lent patterns. 



Listing 2: Music Generator for the PET. When used to generate music waveforms, this 
program will produce audibly distinct tones based on 8-bit patterns in the PET's shift 
register. Qualities are constantly modified through the application of symmetry opera- 
tions (inversion, rotation, etc) to produce interesting variations. 

10 REM BIT PATTERN GENERATOR (C) 1979 MARK ZIMMERMANN 

20 DIM V%(7): REM ARRAY FOR BIT PATTERN DISPLAY 

1 00 FOR I = 1 TO 127 STEP 2: REM TRY ALL POSSIBILITIES THAT DO NOT OBVIOUSLY 
FAIL 

200 Z = I: FOR K = 1 TO 7: GOSUB 5000: REM ROTATE BITS OF Z LEFT 

220 IF Z<I GOTO 1000: REM REDUCED TO A PREVIOUS CASE IF Z<I 

240 NEXT K: REM PASSED FIRST TEST IF REACH HERE 

300 X = 255 - 1 : REM INVERT BIT PATTERN ( 1 's COMPLEMENT)— X > I SINCE LOOP WAS 
1 TO 127 

320 Z = X: FOR K= 1 TO 7: GOSUB 5000: REM ROTATE BITS 

340 IF Z<I GOTO 1000: REM REDUCED TO PREVIOUS CASE... 

360 NEXT K: REM IF HERE, PASSED SECOND TEST 

400 GOSUB 6000: REM REVERSE BIT ORDER OF I, RESULT RETURNED IN X 

500 IF X<I GOTO 1000: REM FAILED AGAIN 

600 Z = X: FOR K = l TO 7: GOSUB 5000: IFZ<IGOTO 1000 

620 NEXTK 

660 Z = 255-X: FOR K= 1 TO 7: GOSUB 5000: IF Z< I GOTO 1000 

680 NEXT K: REM IF HERE, A SUCCESS! ! ! ! ! 

800 X = I: FOR K = TO 7: V%(K) = X-2*INT(X/2): X = INT(X/2): NEXT K: REM 
GENERATE BITS 

900 PRINT I;TAB(10);: FOR K = 7 TO STEP - 1: PRINT V%(K);: NEXT K: PRINT 

1000 NEXT I 

2000 GOTO 9999 

5000 REM ROTATE BITS OF Z LEFT 

5020 Z = 2*Z: IF Z> 255 THEN Z = Z-255 

5040 RETURN 

6000 Y = I: X = 0:FORK = 0TO 7: X = 2*X: IF Y< >2*INT(Y/2) THEN X = X+ 1 

6020 Y = INT(Y/2): NEXT K: RETURN: REM RETURN WITH X THE REVERSED VERSION OF 

I 

9999 END 



78 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



In this age of runaway inflation... 

Look what $795* will buy 





The ideal input device for the small 
system user. 





5S Si 


j;;;;-; «ww sj*m *j* 

«iim 170.00 «i»-j m.D0 


»!»'• «££ 




TV) HX ^| 




"»' ll>» 


»,...■■ ■b» .-t 


Wx.ll Ml 




m 


s-i" is: 



Available with stylus or optional cursor. 




The HIP AD™ digitizer 

Inexpensive input to your computer 

The HIPAD™ digitizer can be used for both converting graphic information into 
digital values and as a menu. Utilizing either the stylus or the optional cursor, the 
operator can input graphic data into the computer by locating individual points on 
the digtizers 11" x 11" (28cm x 28cm) active area. In the "stream mode" a contin- 
uance of placements of coordinate pairs may be input. 

Not a kit, the HIPAD™ comes complete with both RS-232C and parallel interfaces 
and has its own built-in power source. The origin is completely relocatable so coor- 
dinates may be positive or negative for a true reference value and oversized mater- 
ial may be input by simply resetting the origin. 

Accurate positional information, free form sketches, 
even keyboard simulation 

All can be entered using the multi-faceted HIPAD™ digitizer. Its capabilities and 
low price make the UL listed HIPAD™ a natural selection over keyboard entry, inac- 
curate joysticks, or expensive approximating light pens. It's perfect for inputting 
isometric drawings, schematics, X-rays, architectural drawings, business graphs, 
and many other forms of graphic information, as well as creating your own graphics. 

Use it with Apple II™ , TRS-80 Level II ™, PET™ or other 
popular computers 

The HIPAD's™ built-in RS-232C and parallel 8 bit interfaces make it all 
possible. (For Apple II order DT-11A, forTRS-80 or PET order DT-11). 
Furthermore, you get English or metric scaling, data format (Binary/BCD/ASCII), 
selectable baud rates, and resolution of either .005" or .01". 

For complete information contact Houston Instrument, One Houston Square, Austin, Texas 78753. 
(512)837-2820. For rush literature requests, outside Texas call toll free 1-800-531 -5205. For technical 
information ask for operator #5. In Europe contact Houston Instrument, Rochesterlaan 6, 8240 Gistel, 
Belgium. Telephone 059127-74-45. 



Available with optional display. 
"U.S. Suggested retail price 



TM HIPAD is a trademark of Houston Instrument 
TRS-80 is a trademark ot Tandy Corporation 
APPLE is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 
PET is a trademark of Commodore Business Machines, Inc. 

Circle 44 for literature 

Circle 45 to have representative call 



houston instrument 

GRAPHICS DIVISION OF 

BAUSCHSLOMB ▼ 



I've only been able to think of one 
more symmetry operation to apply to 
bit patterns. (If you find others that 
leave the voice that the ear hears un- 
changed, please let me know.) This 
final operation is to reverse the bit 
order. For example, reversal changes 
11010000 into 00001011. Physically, 
reversal corresponds to playing a bit 
pattern backwards, or to reversing 
the flow of time. I abbreviate this 
operation REV. 

Now there are three symmetry 
operations: ROL, INV, and REV. 
Applying any one of them to any bit 
pattern leaves the sound that the ear 
hears unchanged. By repeatedly 



applying these operations, it's easy to 
discover sets of bit patterns that 
change into each other (the patterns 
00110011, 01100110, 10011001, and 
11001100 make up one such set). 

How does this theoretical know- 
ledge help you to determine which bit 
patterns are distinctive voices and 
which are redundant among the 256 
possibilities? A crude way would be 
to apply various combinations of 
ROL, INV, and REV to a candidate 
pattern, and consider it new if it is 
never transformed into an already- 
known or old pattern. A slightly 
better method would be to systemati- 
cally apply a series of the symmetry 









DISPOSABLE HEAD. UNBEATABLE PRICE. 


INDUSTRIAL MICRO STOWS, the industrial- 
strength microcomputers priced like the light- 
weights. All IMS systems feature a Z80 4 
mHz CPU, 5-100 bus with 10 (series 5000) 
or 12 (series 8000) slot motherboard, DMA 
(IBM-compatible) double-density floppy disk 
controller, 32K high speed (250 nS) static 
RAM, rugged power supply, two RS232 serial 
ports and one parallel port (all expandable). 
Each IMS system comes in your choice of an 
attractive desk-top or rackmount enclosure. 
CP/M is included. 
SERIES 5000 wftfi 5 1/4" drives 
With 1wo single-sided, double-density 
drives $2531.20 
With two double-sided, double density 
drives 2908.75 
SKIES 8000 with 8" drives 
With one single-sided, double-densily 
drive $3359.00 
With two single-sided, double-density 
drives 4029.00 
With one double-sided, double-density 
drive 3659.00 
With two double-sided, double-density 
drives 4549.00 




EPSON MX-80 
Dot Matrix Printer 




The world's first tfcpovr+le print head. 
When it wears out, just throw it away. 
A new one costs less than S30, yet it's so 
simple, you can change it with one hand. 

features: Bidirectional printing, logic seeking, 
80 cos with up to 105 LPM throughput in 10 
cps mode, adjustable tractor pin type feed. 

UST S645 00 

MX-80 Serial Version ... . $562.50 




MX-80 Parallel Version $562.50 




MX-80 Serial Version $599.00 




MX-80 IEEE488 . . $599.00 




Apple Cable .$ 21.90 




TRS80 Expansion Cable $ 30.65 


HIGH SPIED IMS S 100 MEMORY BOARDS 

16K 250 nS static RAM 290.00 


1 

1 


CP M is a tracJemark of Qqital Research 


I 32K 250 nS static RAM 585.00 
64K Dynamic RAM 937.50 




60% FEWER WORKING PARTS. 


WORDSTAR 2.1 The List Microhouse 

premier word-processing 

software by MicroPro 495.00 349.98 

WORDSTAR 2.1 with 

MtdMetge 645.00 489.98 

DATASTAR data entry, 
retrieval, ond update 

system from MicroPro 350.00 279.98 
SUPERSORT sort/ 
merge/extract soft- 
ware gives your CP/M 
micro the power of a 
key-to-disk system 250.00 199.98 




MORE RELIABLE. LOWER PRICED. 




Trie NEW 

NEC Spinwriter 

3500Q 




UST S2000 00 

| NEC Spinwriter 3500Q Parallel . . . $1742.50 
Horizontal Tractor Feed . $ 144.00 

Vertical Tractor Feed $ 180.00 

Cut Sheet Feeder $1080.00 




TCS/ Atiarrta Accounting System: 

General 

Ledger compare at 530,00 175.00 
Accounts 
1 Receivable compare at 530.00 175.00 

Accounts 

Payable compare at 530.00 175.00 

Payroll compare at 530.00 175.00 






1 


MASTER CARD OR VISA WELCOM 

PRICES AND SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TC 

CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE 

CALL OR WRITE FOR FREE CATALOC 




» » • 1 


All four packages 595.00 




Microhouse 


Sample printouts (all 4 pkgs 

included) 10.00 






Manuals (one pkg per manual) Each 35.00 



80 



511 North New Street Bethlehem. PA 18018 (215)868 8219 

February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 46 on Inquiry card. 



operations that would guarantee that 
no possible transformations were 
missed. For example, it's clear that 
you need never apply more than 
seven consecutive ROL operations to 
a pattern, since the eighth application 
brings you back to the original 
pattern. It's also clear that applying 
INV (or REV) twice in a row makes 
no sense, since it just flips the bits 
back again. There are many possible 
sequences of operations that will find 
all possible transformations of a 
pattern. One simple sequence is: ROL 
seven times, INV, ROL seven times, 
REV, ROL seven times, INV, and 
ROL seven times. After each opera- 
tion, a potentially new equivalent bit 
pattern is produced. Applying the 
sequence to the pattern 00001011 will 
generate all thirty-one other equiva- 
lent patterns, with no repetition; 
applying it to a pattern like 01010101, 
which has only one equivalent 
(10101010), will, of course, produce 
many repetitions. 

The program of listing 2 essentially 
goes through this process in order to 
find the set of seventeen distinct 
voices, but with a few refinements to 
speed it up. First, the program works 
exclusively with the decimal number 
corresponding to each bit pattern, not 
with the pattern itself. This allows the 
program to use simple BASIC arith- 
metic operations to perform ROL, 
INV, and REV. Only when a number 
is discovered to be a new voice is it 
converted into a bit pattern for dis- 
play. Second, no time is wasted in 
checking even numbers, or numbers 
greater than 127. Every even number 
corresponds to a bit pattern ending in 
a 0, and a single rotation right (or 
seven rotations left) will always pro- 
duce a pattern corresponding to a 
smaller binary number. Any number 
greater than 127 can always be re- 
duced to a number less than 127 by an 
INV operation. Third, Music Gen- 
erator doesn't bother storing a list of 
already-discovered old patterns with 
which to compare the result of each 
transformation. Instead, it uses a neat 
yet trivial mathematical trick, one 
that should be part of every alert pro- 
grammer's repertoire. Let me intro- 
duce it to you with a short story: 

An engineer, a physicist, and a 
mathematician are taking an intel- 
ligence test. Each is led, separately, 
into a room containing a table and a 
stove. On the table there is a pitcher 
of water, a kettle, and box of tea. 

Circle 47 on inquiry card. * 



u 



i 



Memory — you never seem to have quite 
enough of it. 

But if you're one of the thousands of Apple 
owners using the SoftCard, there's an economical 
new way to expand your memory dramatically. 

16K ON A PLUG-IN CARD. 

Microsoft's new RAMCard simply 
plugs into your Apple II,® and adds 16k 
bytes of dependable, buffered 
read/write storage. 

Together with the SoftCard, ■ 
the RAMCard gives you a 56k 
CP/M® system that's big enough 
to take on all kinds of chores that 
would never fit before (until now, 
the only way to get this much 
memory was to have an Apple 
Language Card installed). 

GREAT SOFTWARE: 
YOURS, OURS, OR THEIRS. 

With the RAMCard and 
SoftCard, you can tackle large- 
scale business and scientific 
computing with our COBOL and 
FORTRAN languages. Or greatly 
increase the capability of CP/M 



, , F H 


->■ t j r j ► 




w 


' 1 Bj hL J| J ■ 

k ! M -1 i| J 





»Oe./i©2i— . 



H-,- 



) 



applications like the Peachtree Software account- 
ing systems. VisiCalc™ and other Apple software 
packages can take advantage of RAMCard too. 

And RAMCard gives you the extra capacity to 
develop advanced programs of your own, using the 
SoftCard and CP/M. Even with the RAMCard in 
place, you can still access your ROM BASIC 
and monitor routines. 

C JOIN THE SOFTCARD 

FAMILY. 

The RAMCard is just the 
latest addition to the SoftCard 
family — a comprehensive sys- 
tem of hardware and software 
that can make your Apple more 
versatile and powerful than you 
ever imagined. 

Your Microsoft dealer has all 
the exciting details. Visit him 
soon, and discover a great idea 
that keeps getting better. 

Microsoft Consumer 
Products, 400 108th Ave. N.E., 
Suite 200, Bellevue, WA 98004. 
^Ie!- (206)454-1315. 




CPU's & 

SUPPORT 

CHIPS 



RAM'S 



- 5.95 

- 12.95 

- 13.95 



2.90 
2.75 



- 6.95 



BOSSA 

AMD 29 
8105 

8212 
8216 

62*6 

3228 

8251 

B259 

8257IAM9517) - 8.95 

Z80A SIA - 17.95 

8275 - 16.95 

FOI79I - 34.95 



UART's 

AYS-1013 - 3.75 

1602E - 3.95 

AV3-8500 -1.9S 

PT1482B -3.25 



2114L-3 

4116-3 

41162 

2 1 102-3 

2102-4 

MK4027-3 

MK4096-11 

TMS4045-25- 

MS4050NL 

2101-1 

2107BI52B0 

MMS270 

MK40089 





40D1 


- ■ 




4002 
4006 


_ ". 


3.95 
3.75 


4008 
4009 
4010 


- s 


6.75 
.99 


4012 
4013 




.90 
3.50 
2.95 


4014 
401S 
4D16 




6.50 
3.95 
2.45 

1.75 


401B 
401 9 
4020 
4021 




3.45 
1.95 


4023 
4024 
4025 


'- 



80 4034 - 2.25 
.-15 4035 - 31 



4W2 

4044 

4046 



.37 4050 



- .45 4053 



4515 

4516 

4518 

4520 

74C00 

74C02 

; 



74C74 - , 
74C76 - . 
74CB3 - 1 
74CB5 - 1 
74C86 - 
74C90 - 
74C93 - 
74C151 - 1 
74C1S7 - 1 
74C160 „ 1. 
74C161 - 1 
74C163 - 1 
74C165 - 1 
74C173 - 1 



_ .40 74C17 



74CK1 - 
74C14 - 
74C20 - 
74C12 
74C73 ■ 



F4C175 - 



.27 74C926 - 6,95 



ROM's 





2708 


- 6.95 


NTERFACE 


2716 


- 12.95 


& DRIVERS 


2516 
2532 


- 15.95 

- 29.95 




6223 


- 3.95 


.«S - 1.40 


82573 


- 2.95 


1489 - 1,25 


82S 1 1 2 


- 7.95 


8130 - 2.50 


82S123 


- 4.95 


8131 _ 2 50 


62S126 


- 2.95 




82S129 


- 3.25 


8833 - 2.50 


82S130 


- 3.45 




B2S131 


- 3.95 


8837 - 2.00 




- 6 95 








8T380 - 2.00 








SPECIAL VALUE 

8" SOFT SECTOR DISCS 

Made by Magnetic Periferals 

with documentation 

115V AC, +5VDCat1A, +24VDCatlA, 

-5/ -12V DC at .3A 

Single sided, single density 

144,000 bytes of data after formating 

14 lbs. shipping weight 

Used in good condition 

Shugart and IBM format compatible 

*250 00 

SPECIALS GOOD THRU FEBRUARY 1981 



*m 'i r -n^Mi— La 

TRANSISTOR SPECIALS 

2N1303PNPGETO 5 . . 

2N1307PNPGETOS . 

2N404APNPGETO5. . .... 3/91,00 

HEPG6014- PNPGETO 3 . S .85 

TIP 121 - NPN Si SWITCHING 5 .95 

2N6233-NPN SWITCHING POWER . SI. 95 

MRF80Q4 aCBRf TRANS'STOR NPN S .75 

2N3772 NPN S.T03... S1.00 

2N4908PNPSiTO-3 .... $1.00 

2N5086PNPSiTO92 ..4IS1.00 

2N3137 NPN Si RF . . $ .55 

2N3919 NPN Si TO 3RF $1.50 

2N1420NPN SiTOS . ,31*1.00 

2N3767NPN Si TO 66 $ .70 

2N2222 NPN Si T 0.18 .... . . . S/S1.00 

2N2907 NPNSiTO IB 4/S1.00 

2N3055 NPNSiTO 3 .. .$ .60 

2N3904NPNSiTO92. 6191.00 

2N3906 PNPSiTO.92 G'Sl.OO 

2N5296 NPN Si TO 220. . . $ .55 

2N6109PNPS.T0-220. ..$ .55 

TIP31BNPNS.T0 220 $.60 

TIP32B PNP S. TO 220 S .65 

TIP34PNPSi .$ .95 



TTL IC SERIES 



7400 - 

7401 - 

7402 - 

7403 - 

7404 - 

7405 - 
7i06 
7407 

7408 - 

7409 - 

7410 - 

7411 - 

7412 - 

7413 - 

7414 - 

7416 - 

7417 - 
7420 - 

7425 - 

7426 - 

7427 ■- 
7430 - 

7432 - 
7437 - 

7433 - 

7440 - 

7441 - 

7442 - 
7445 - 
7446 
7447 
7448 



7450 - 

7472 - 

7473 - 

7474 - 

7475 - 

7476 - 
7480 - 
74B3- 
74B5- 



7490 - 

7491 - 
7492- 
7493- 

7494 - 

7495 - 
7496- 
74107 - 
74121 — 
74122- 
74123 - 

74125 - 

74126 - 
74145 - 
74150- 1 
74151 - 
74153 - 
75154 - 1 
74155 - . 
74157 - , 
74160 - . 



74161 - 

74162 - ' 

74163 - 

74164 - 

74165 - 

74166 - 

74167 - 
74170- ' 

74173 - 

74174 - 

74175 - 

74176 - 

74177 - 

74180 - 

74181 - 

74190 - 

74191 - 

74192 - 

74193 - 

74194 - 

74195 - 

74196 - 

74197 - 
74279 - 
74325 - 
74365 - 

74367 - 

74368 - 
74360 - 
75325 - 

75491 - 

75492 - 
8T98 - 



DATE1/S DACOBaC 
8bitDAC - $9.95 



8" DISKETTES HARD SECTOR 
$1.75,10/$16.00 



74500 
74S02 

74S04 
74S05 
74S08 

74S11 
74S15 
74S20 



74S30 
74S32 
74S86 
74SB9 
74S112 
74S133 
74S140 
74S153 



.40 74S151 

.40 74S157 

.60 74S15B 

1.90 74S174 

.85 74S257 

1.40 74S25B 

1.00 74S374 

1.10 



7 WATT LD 65 LASER 
DIODE IR $8.95 



25 wan Intra Red Pulse (SG 2006 equiv.) 
Laser Diode (Specsheetincludedl s? . 



2N3820 P FET $ .45 

2N5457NFET $ .45 

2N2646UJT $ .45 

ER 900 TRIGGER DIODES.. . . . 4/$1.00 
2N 602B PROG. UJT $ .65 



ttlheedrelay - SPST5V20ma $1.00 



CLOCK CHIPS 

MM53B7AA $5.95 

MM5314 $4.75 

MM5316 $4.95 



CRYSTALS $3.45 ea. 

6.144MH2 

8.000MHz 
10.000 MHz 
18.000 MHz 
18,432 MHz 
20.000 MHz 



RIBBON CABLE 

FLAT (COLOR CODED) 

#30 WIRE 

IScond. -.40/perioot 
40cond. - .75/perfooi 
50cond. - .90/perfoot 



MINIATURE MULTI-TURN TRIM POTS 
100. 5K, 10K.20K. 2&0K, ... $.75ea> 



NO. 30 WIRE WRAP WIRE SINGLE STRAND 

1 00' $1 .40 



ALCO MINIATURE TOGGLE SWITCHES 

MTA 106 SPOT $1-05 

MTA206 DPDT 91.70 

MTA206P-DPDTCENTROFf $1.85 

MSO 206 P-OPOT CENTEROFF LEVER SWITCH, S1.B5 



FULL WAVE BRIDGE 



PRV 


2A 


6A 


25A 


100 






1.40 


200 


.80 


1.30 


2.20 


400 


1.00 


1.65 


3.30 


600 


1.30 


1.90 


4.40 



SCR's 



600 



1.5A | 6A 35A |110A 



3.60 



15.00 



TRIAC's 



DIP SOCKETS 

8 PIN .17 22 PIN .30 

14 PIN .20 24 PIN .35 

16 PIN .22 28 PIN .40 

18 PIN .25 40 PIN .60 



74LS SERIES 



PRV 


1A 


10A 


25A 


100 


.45 


.80 


1.55 


?00 


,R4 


1.30 


2.10 


400 


1.30 


1 90 


3.10 


600 


2.00 


2.75 


4.30 



FP 100 PHOTOTRANS $ .50 

RED, YELLOW OR GEEN LARGE LEDs. .2' 6/$ 1.00 

RED/GREEN BIPOLAR LED's $ .55 

MLED92 R LED S .75 

MRD14B PHOTO DAHl.XTOR $ .75 

TIL-118 OPTO-1SOLATOR * -75 

IL-5 OPTOISOLATOR $ .80 

1 WATT ZENERS; 3.3. 4.7, 5.1, 5,6, 6.8, 8.2, 9.1, 10, 
12, 15, 18, or22V 6/S1.00 



SFC 3301 - 50 PRV 30A 
FAST RECOVERY DIODE (35ns) ..$2.25 



SILICON POWER RECTIFIERS 



74LS - .22 

74LS01 - .22 

74LS02 - .22 

74LS03 - 22 

74LS04 - .27 

74LS0& - .27 

74LS08 - .27 



74LS1I - JS 

74LS13 - £0 

74LS14 - .80 

74LS15 - ,35 

74LS20 - .30 



74LS13 



70 



TANTALUM CAPACITORS 

10UF10V - $ .40 
22UF10V -$ .30 
15UF16V 3/$1.00 
30UF6V 5/S1.00 
33UF20V $ .60 
100UF15V $ .70 
150UF15V $ .95 



4LS21 
74IS22 - 
74LS26 - 
74LS27 - 
74LSJ.B - 
74LS30 - 
74LS32 - 
74LS37 - 
74LS3B - 



74LS51 - 
74LS54 - 
74LS73 - 



.22UF35V 5/S1.00 
.47UF35V 5/S1.00 
.68UF35V 5/S1.00 
1UF35V 5/$ 1.00 
2.2UF20V 5 $1.00 
3.3UF20V 4/$1.00 
4.7UF 15 V 5/S1.00 
6.8UF35V 3/$1.00 



SANKEN 

AUDIO POWER AMPS 

Si 1010 G 10 WATTS .. $ 7.50 
Si 1020 G 20 WATTS . . $13.75 
Si 1050 G 50 WATTS . . $26.90 



200 PRV 1A LASCR .95 



RS232 
CONNECTORS 

DB25Pmale $3.25 

DB25S female ... $4.25 
HOODS $1.50 



PRV 


1A 


3A 


12A 


50A 


125A 


240A 


100 


.06 


.14 


.35 


.90 


.3.70 


500 


200 


.07 


.20 


.40 


1.30 


4.25 


6.50 


400 


.09 


.25 


.65 


1.50 


6.50 


9.60 


600 


.11 


.30 


.60 


2.00 


8.50 


12.50 


800 


.15 


.35 


1.00 


2.50 


10.50 


16.50 


1000 


.20 


.45 


1.26 


3.00 


12.50 


20.00 



IN4148IIN914) . 15/S1.00 

.1 or .01 uf 25V ceramic disc. capis.16/$1. 00, 100/S5.00 



REGULATORS 



74LS75 - 


7 C . 


74LS76 - 


.4h 


74LSB3 - 


4S 


74LSB5 - 


II) 


74LSB6 - 


4S 


74LS90 - 


11) 


74LS92 - 


HI) 


74LS93. - 


u.1 




47 


74LS112 - 


.4h 


74LS113 - 


4S 


74LS1U - 


ss 


74LS123 - 


'h 


74LS125 - 


<.) 


74LS126 - 


Ml) 


74LS132 - 


HI) 


74LS136 - 


.HI) 


74LS13B - 


,7 b 



74LS151 -V 
74LS153-1.19 
74LS1S5-1.19 
74LS156-1.19 
74LS157- .as 
74LS160- 100 
74LS161- 1,00 
-4LS162- 1.00 
74LS163- 100 
74LS164 - 1 00 
-4LS16B- 125 
74LS169-1.75 
74LS170-1.70 
74LS173- .90 
74LSW4- 100 
74LS175-1 00 
74LS1B1 -2.50 
74LS190 -1.25 
74LS191-1.15 
74LSI92- 90 
74LS193- SO 
74LS19 5- 90 
74LS196- 1.00 
74LS197- .90 
74LS240-1.60 
74LS241- 1 60 
74LS242 - 1 60 
74LS243- 1 60 
74LS244- I. B0 
74LS245-2 25 
74LS251- 1.29 
74LS253 - 1.00 
74LS257- 90 
74LS25B- .90 
74LS259 -1.50 
74LS266- .70 
74LS273- 1 25 
74IS279- .70 
74LS2M - B0 
74LS293- ,B0 
74LS365- .80 
74LS366 - 80 
74IS367- 80 
74LS3 8- 80 
74LS373- 1.50 
74LS3.5- .95 
74LS377 - 1 .50 
74LS386 - 50 
74LS393 - 1.50 



LM3T7T $1.75 

LM337 $2.50 

323K-5V3A $5 75 

79HGKC-5Val5A ..6.95 

723 $ .50 

350T-5, 12, or 15V $1.10 



LM305G $ .75 

340K-12,15or24V.$1.50 
340T-5, 6,8, 12,15 

18or24V $1.10 

320MS $ .75 

LAS1412 + 12V3A $3.95 



LINEAR CIRCUITS 



LED READOUTS 

FCS 8024 -4 digit FND359L.A 

C.C. 8" display $5.95 
FND 503 C.C. .5" $ B5 
FND510C.A..5" $ .85 
DL-704-.3" C.C. $ .85 



$ .60 
DL-707C.A. .3"$ .75 
DL747 CA..6" $1-50 
HP3400.8"CA $1.95 
HP3405.8-CC $1.95 



LMD07 - 
LM308 - 
LM&4 - 



LM387 - 1.25 
LM563 - 2.25 
LM556 - .45 
LM55J - .65 



567 - 1.10 



CH756 - 
CA30IB - 
CA3346 - 
CA3076 - 

NE540L - 
603BCC - 
N5696A - 



POSTAGE ADD 10% FOR ORDERS UNDER $20.00 
RATES ADD 5% FOR ORDERS BETWEEN $20.00 AND $50.00 

ADD 3% FOR ORDERS ABOVE $50.00 



TERMS:FOB CAMBRIDGE, MASS. SEND CHECK 
OR MONEY ORDER. MINIMUM TELEPHONE, 
C.O.D. PURCHASE ORDER OR CHARGE $20.00 
MINIMUM MAIL ORDER $5.00. 



SOLID STATE SALES 

P.O. BOX 74B 

SOMERVILLE, MASS. 02143 



TEL. (617)547-7053 

WE SHIP OVER 95% 

OFOURORDERSTHE 

DAY WE RECEIVE THEM 

1-800-343-5230 



SEND 5.25 FOR OUR CATALOG 
FEATURING TRANSISTORS & 
RECTIFIERS. 145 HAMPSHIRE 
ST.. CAMBRIDGE. MASS. 02139 



Each test subject is asked to make a 
pot of tea. 

The engineer fills the kettle with 
water from the pitcher, puts it on the 
stove, brings the water to a boil, and 
makes the tea. When the physicist en- 
counters the same situation, he thinks 
for a while, puts the tea into the cold 
water, etc, but eventually hits upon 
the solution. The mathematician 
takes a little longer, but finally he too 
solves the problem. 

For the second part of the test, each 
subject is led into another room. In 
this room, again, there is a stove, a 
table with a pitcher of water, and a 
box of tea. The difference is that the 
tea kettle is now sitting on the floor. 

When the engineer enters the room 
and is asked to make tea, he picks up 
the kettle, fills it with water, puts it 
on the stove to boil, and so on, as 
before. The physicist stops and thinks 
for a short time, then figures it out, 
and does essentially the same. 

But the mathematician, as soon as 
he encounters the puzzle, simply 
takes the kettle from the floor and 
sets it on the table. Then he stops. He 
has reduced the problem to a previ- 
ous case — one he has already solved. 
As far as he's concerned, nothing 
more need be done. 

This trick of reducing a problem to 
a previous case may be funny or ob- 
vious, but it's also exceedingly valu- 
able in computing, and in other 
fields. When calculating the factorial 
function n\ =n X (n-l)X(n-2)X ... 
X 3X2 XI, once you know how to 
calculate n\ you can easily get (« + l)I 
by reducing the calculation to a 
previous case. When trying to find 
the prime factorization of the num- 
bers from 1 to n, once a single factor 
of a number is found, no more work 
need be done since the remaining 
number has already been factored, 
and is therefore a previous case. 
There are many other examples. 

Music Generator uses this "reduc- 
tion to a previous case" technique. 
After each transformation of a can- 
didate bit pattern, the result is 
checked to see if it is smaller than the 
original candidate under considera- 
tion. If it is smaller, you know that it 
has been previously handled, and the 
program immediately skips on to the 
next candidate (specifically, it 
branches to line 1000 which is a 
NEXT I statement). By starting with 
the smallest candidate, 00000001, and 
working upward, the program pro- 
duces a complete list of all the 



82 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 49 on Inquiry card. 



Orange micro 



'SPECIALIZING IN PRINTERS 
AND CRT'S" 



CENTRONICS 737 (SSv) 



NEC SPINWRITER 




Word Processing Print Quality 



• 18 x 9 dot matrix; suitable tor word 
processing • Underlining • proportional 
spacing • right margin justification • serif 
typeface • 50/80 CPS • 9 1 /2" Pin 
Feed/Friction feed • Reverse Platen • 
80/132 columns 



High Speed Letter Quality 



• 55 CPS • Typewriter quality ■ Bidirec- 
tional ■ Plotting • proportional spacing. 



'■ 



CENTRONICS 737-1 (List $995) $780 

CENTRONICS 737-3 (List $1 045) 



5510-5 RO, Serial, w/tractors (List $2995) $2625 

5530-5 RO, Parallel, w/tractors (List$2970) $2599 




EPSON MX80 



Low-Priced 
Professional Print Quality 

• 9 x 9 dot matrix • Lower case descenders 

• 80 CPS • Bidirectional, Logic seeking • 
40, 66, 80, 132 columns per line • 64 special 
graphic characters: TRS-80 Compatible • 
Forms handling • Multi-pass printing • Ad- 
justable tractors 



EPSON MX80 (List $645) 



SCall 



OKIDATA MICROLINE SERIES 



TRS-80 Graphics Compatibility 



9 x 7 dot matrix • 80 CPS • 80, 132 

1 columns — 64 shapes for charts, graphs & 

diagrams • Double wide characters • 6/8 

lines per inch • Up to 3 part copy • Friction 

& pin feed • 200 M character head warranty 

OKIDATA MICROLINE 80 (List $800) $599 

OKIDATA M82 Bidirectional, Forms handling (List $960) $799 

OKIDATA NI83 Wide carriage, 9 x 9 dot matrix (List $1 260) SCall 




^ 



BASE 2 850 



The Micro Printer With The Most Features 



• Graphics • Tractors/Friction Feed • 2K 
FIFO Buffer • RS-232 Serial, Centronics® 
Parallel, IEEE-488, 20 ma • TRS-80 Cable 
option • 100 CPS • Fast form feed • User 
programmable character set • 64, 72, 80, 
96, 120, 132 Columns/line • Expanded 
characters • Automatic skip-over-perfora- 
tion • Horizontal & Vertical tabs • Pro- 
grammable vertical line spacing • Intel 
8085 Microprocessor — over 40 software 
commands • Bidirectional, Logic-seek. 
(List $799) $749 




BASE 2 850. 



TOLL FREE 
(800) 854-8275 

CA, AK, HI (714) 630-3322 

At Orange Micro, we try to tit the right printer to your application. 
Call our printer specialists lor tree consultation. 



ANACOM 

Low Cost, High Speed, Wide Carriage 

• 9 x 9 dot matrix • Lower case descenders • Wide carriage 
Adjustable tractors to 16" • 150 CPS, Bidirectional, Logic Seeking 



ANACOM 150 (List $1 350) 



SCall 



IDS PAPER TIGERS 

Dot Resolution Graphics, quality print 

• Up to 198 CPS • 8 character sizes • sophisticated dot resolution 
graphics • adjustable tractors to9V2 ". 

IDS 445G 7 wire printhead, graphics (List $895) $ 795 

IDS 460G9 wire printhead, graphics (List $1394) $1199 

VISTA -'C^TOH dftllouMy 

• 25 CPS (Optional 45 CPS) • Typewriter quality • Centronics parallel 

• RS 232 Serial (Optional) • Proportional spacing • Bidirectional 

• Programmable VFU • Self test • Diablo compatible • Friction feecf 
(Optional tractors) • 136 printable columns • Manufactured by 
C. ITOH. 
VISTA V300 (C. ITOH) (List $1895) $1795 

TELEVIDEO CRT'S 

PRICES SLASHED! 

TV|y12G I Please Call Toll Free 
TVI 920C f Prices are too low to 
^■■^^ TVI Q^O I advertise 

^^^k QUANTITY PRICING AVAILABLE ' v ' J ^ J '-' J 

PRINTERS 

CENTRONICS 730 RadioShack Line Printer II (List S795) $ 639 

ANADEX 9500 wide carriage, graphics (List $1 650) $ 1450 

MALIBU 165 wide carriage, graphics, letter quality . . (List $2495) $ 2195 

QUME 5/45 typewriter quality (List $2905) $ 2559 | 

INTERFACE EQUIPMENT 

APPLE II -BASE 2 parallel graphics interface boards cable $ %>■■ 

APPLE II- EPSON MX80 

parallel graphics interface board & cable $ 110 I 

SSM AIO BOARD Apple Serial/parallel interface (List $225)$ 175 | 

MICROTRONICS Atari parallel interface $ 

ATARI 850 Interface module, serial/parallel $ 

TRS-80 CABLES to keyboard or Exp. interface * 

NOVATION D-CAT direct connect modem $ 



CALL FOR FREE CATALOG 



Phone orders WELCOME. Same day 
shipment for VISA, MASTER 
CHARGE, and AMERICAN EX- 
PRESS. Personal checks require 2 
weeks to clear. Add 3% for ship- 
ping and handling. California resi- 
dents add 6%. Manufacturer's 
warranty Included. Prices subject to 
revision. 



Orange 
fTlicro, mc 




3148 E. La Palma, Suite E 
Anaheim, CA 92806 




ORDERS FROM 

CALIFORNIA, ALASKA, HAWAII AND 

OUTSIDE OF U.S. (714) 698-8088 

SAtSS INFORMATION, TECHNICAL, OR 
BACKORDERS, CALL {714} 698-0260 



V'^334- 




'apple computer 



Authorized Dealer 




[CipplG// 



ACCESSORY SPECIALS 



DISK II DRIVE (add-on) 425 

D.C. HAYES MICROMODEM II 319 

GRAPHICS TABLET 655 

INTEGER BASIC OR APPLESOFT II 
firmware card 149 

SILENTYPE PRINTER with Interface card.. 515 



APPLE II ACCESSORIES 



CENTRONICS PRINTER 

Int. card 185 

PARALLEL PRINTER Int. card145 
COMMUNICATION CARD 

w/conn. cable 185 

HI-SPEED SERIAL Int. card.. 145 
DAN PAYMAR lower case kit. 55 
MICROWORKS DS-65 

DIGISECTOR 339 

LAZER lower case adapter. ... 50 
SSM AIO SERIAL/ 

PARALLEL kit 155 

SSM AIO assembled & tested190 
SYMTEC LIGHT PEN SYSTEM215 
SYMTEC SUPER SOUND 

GENERATOR 225 

SVA 8 INCH DISK 

CONTROLLER CARD 335 

VERSA WRITER 

DIGITIZER SYSTEM 215 

VIDEX VIDEOTERM 

80 COLUMN CARD 315 

VIDEX VIDEOTERM 

w/graphics ROM 335 

LOBO DISK DRIVE ONLY... 385 
LOBO DRIVE 

w/cont. & DOS 3.3 4 " 

GPIB IEEE-488 (1978) Int 259 

ARITHMETIC PROCESSOR 

CARD 335 

SPEECHLINK 2000 

(64 Word Vocab.l 215 



M&R SUPR-MOD 

TV MODULATOR 30 

CORVUS 10 MEGABYTE HARD 

DISK DRIVE SYSTEM 

w/pwr supply 4395 

CORVUS CONSTELLATION.. 595 
16K MEMORY UPGRADE KIT 
ITRS-80, APPLE II, 

SORCERER 60 

ABT NUMERIC INPUT KEYPAD 

(specify old or new kybrd). 115 
ALF MUSIC SYNTHISIZER. . . 235 

BRIGHTPEN LIGHTPEN 32 

M&R SUPER-TERMINAL 

80 COLUMN CARD 335 

SMARTERM 80 COL 335 

Mountain Computer 
APPLE CLOCK/CALENDAR 

card 225 

SUPERTALKER SD200 SPEECH 

SYNTHISIZER SYSTEM. . . . 245 
ROMPLUS w/kybrd filter.... 165 
INTROL/X-10 BSR REMOTE 

CONTROL SYSTEM 245 

INTROL/X-10 controller 

card only 165 

ROMWRITER SYSTEM 155 

MUSIC SYSTEM 

(16 voices/stereo) 465 

A/D-D/A 16 CHANNELS 319 

EXPANSION CHASSIS 

(8 slotsl 555 




APPLi II PLUS 

OR APPLE II STANDARD 

I6K F n°lV f W5 
48K for *1049 

DISK II DRIVE $ . a9 

w/controller & DOS 3.3 •»~~ 






*425 



microsoft Z-80 
SOFTCARD *199 



APPLE II SOFTWARE 



VISICALC 120 

CCA DATA 
MANAGEMENT. 85 

THE CONTROLLER General 
Business System 519 

THE CASHIER Retail Manage- 
ment & Inventory system 199 

APPLEWRITER Word 
Processor 65 

APPLEPOST MAILING 
List system 45 

DOW JONES PORTFOLIO 

EVALUATOR 45 

APPLE CONTRIBUTED 

Volumes 1-5 w/manuals . . 30 
-DESKTOP/PLAN by DESKTOP 

COMPUTERS 85 

APPLEBUG ASSEMBLER/ 

DISASSEMBLER 75 

APPLE DOS TOOL KIT 65 

PIMS Personal Information 

Management System .... 23 
ADVENTURE by 

MICROSOFT 27 

SUB-LOGIC FS-1 

Flight Simulator 34 

SARGON II Chess 

by HAYDENICass.) 27 



FORTRAN 165 

DOS 3.3 49 

APPLE PLOT.. .. 60 

TAX PLANNER 65 

SARGON II Chess 

on Diskette 32 

TRILOGY OF GAMES 27 

SPACE GAME ALBUM 38 

SPACE INVADER (Cass.). . . 18 
SPACE INVADER (Disk.). . . 23 
SYBEX APPLE-80 

8080Simulator 17 

FORTH MbyPROGRAMMA 

SOFTWARE 45 

SINGLE DISK COPY 

ROUTINES 17 

APPLEBUG DEBUGGER. . . 27 
APPLESOFT UTILITY PRO- 
GRAMS BY HAYDEN ... . 27 

The CORRESPONDENT 35 

ASTEROIDS IN SPACE .... 19 

HEAD-ON 25 

3-D ANIMATION PACK. . . . 53 
BATTLESHIP 

COMMANDER 23 

FASTGAMMON 26 

STAR CRUISER 24 

TRANQUILITY BASE 24 

More software available 
Please write us for a list. 



Circle 50 on Inquiry card. 



i*5* 



>■'.?.- A | 



INTERNATIONAL 
CUSTOMERS: 

T E 

ANSWER "BETA" ATTENTION "CRUS' 
COMING SOON.... 

- * ; p/.: . W; 

LONDON P4A/S BERLIN CAIRO RIYADH JOHANNESBURG 

o / ;o c/ry 



'(/ c » 



>£9 



^ 



EXIDY 



ATARI 



OSI 



Please 

Call 

For 

Best 

Price 



SORCERER II 
COMPUTER 



16.32K & 48K VERSIONS AVAILABLE 

S-100 EXPANSION UNIT 37B 

WORD PROCESSING PAC 179 

DEVELOPMENT PAC 89 




A 

ATARI* 




PMC-80 




THE TRS-80 'WORK ALIKE' 
16K LEVEL II ONLY $579 

Completely compatible with Radio Shack TRS-80 
Level II software and peripherals. Features include: 
Level II Basic, Video & Ch. 3 TV output. Built 
in Cassette, 40 pin interface conn., 16K User RAM 
memory, Expandable to 48K. 

For more information, please call or write. 




41095 

WATANABE MIPLOT 

for more info please call or write 



16K FOR /5J5J 

ATARI 800 

PERSONAL COMPUTER SYSTEM 

400 COMPUTER 479 

820 PRINTER (40 col.l 459 

810 DISK DRIVE 559 

410 PROGRAM RECORDER 59 

815 DUAL DISK DRIVE 1199 

822 THERMAL PRINTER I40 col.l 369 

825 PRINTER (SO col. imp. 1 795 

850 INTERFACE MODULE 175 

ATARI 16K RAM MODULE 155 

LIGHT PEN 65 

ACOUSTIC MODEM ICAT) 169 

COMPUTER CHESS 35 

SPACE INVADERS 19 

STAR RAIDERS 49 

SUPER BREAKOUT 35 

3-D TIC-TACTOE 35 

VIDEO EASEL 35 

MUSIC COMPOSER 49 

VISICALC DISK 129 

LEEDEX VIDEO 100 139 

SANYO 9" B&W 165 

SANYO 12" B&W 255 

PANACOLOR 10" COLOR 329 

NEC 12" HI-RES COLOR 875 

NEC 12" LORES COLOR 399 

NEC 12" GREEN PHOSPHER(P3il. . 239 

TELEVIDEO 912B&C 698 

TELEVIDEO 920B & C 745 




C4PMF *1699 




PLOTTERS VIDEO MONITORS PRINTERS 



Cassette Disk 

SPACE INVADERS 19 29 

SARGONII 30 35 

FORTH N/A 69 

OS 65-D V3.3 N/A 79 

MDMS PLANNER •■ N/A 100 

GRAPHICS I N/A 35 

daci N/A 45 

ASSEMBLER/EDITOR 40 N/A 

EXTENDED MONITOR 20. .... N/A 

PASCAL & FORTRAN I4P & 8P only) . N/A 450 

When or dering please specify system. 

ANADEX DP-8000 775 

ANADEX DP-9500 1350 

BASE 2 649 

CENTRONICS 737 825 

PAPER TIGER IDS-460 w/graphics 1195 

PAPER TIGER IDS-440 wfgrophics 895 

NEC SPIN WRITER 2550 

TRENDCOM 200 519 

SILENTYPE Wflnt 515 

EPSON TX-80 w/graphics 729 

EPSON MX-80 132 col 620 

QUMESPRINT5 2560 



ORDERING INFORMATION: Phone Orders invited using VISA, MASTERCARD. AMERICAN EXPRESS, or bank wire Iranslers VISA S MC credit card service charge of 2V 
AE credit card service charge ol 5% Mail orders may send charge card number (include expiration date) cashiers check, money order or personal check (allow 10 
business days to clear} Please include a telephone number with all orders Foreign orders (excluding Military PO's) add l0°o lor shipping all funds must be in US 
dollars (letters ol credit permitted) Shipping, Handling and Insurance in U S add 3°o (minimum Sd 00) California residents add 6° sales tax Our low margins prohibit 
us to send COD or on purchase orders or open account (please send lor written quotation ) Alt equipment is subject to price change and availability Equipment 
is new and complete with the manufacturer warranty We do not guarantee merchantibihty of products sold All returned equipment is subject to a 1 5°o restocking fee 
We ship most orders within 2 days. 
WE ARE A MEMBER OF THE BETTER BUSINESS BUREAU AND THE CHAMBER OF COMMERCE. RETAILSTORE PRICES MAY DIFFER FROM MAIL ORDER PRICES. 

PLEASE SEND ORDERS TO: 
CONSUMER COMPUTERS MAIL ORDER, 8314 PARKWAY DRIVE, GROSSMONT SHOPPING CENTER NORTH, LA MESA, CA. 92041 



Circle 50 on Inquiry card. 



Choices for actual locations: 



P = 

Q = 2 
R=2 
RNDPTR = DD (hexadecimal) 
RNDNUM = DE (hexadecimal) 
D = EC (hexadecimal) 
V = F3 (hexadecimal) 
N =F4 (hexadecimal 



;P,Q,R occupy "USR(X)" storage area! 



-.random numbers in PET's RND(X) location 
;in PET's "EOT character" area 

;V,N in tape buffer pointer area 



Ml =033 A (hexadecimal) = 826 (decimal) 

M2 = 036C (hexadecimal) = 876 (decimal) 

I =03D8 (hexadecimal) = 984 (decimal) 

Music table occupies 03D9 thru 03E0 (hexadecimal) = 985 thru 992 (decimal). 

INTR VLTAB = 03E1 = 993 

Interval table occupies 03E1 thru 03E8 (hexadecimal) = 993 thru 1000 (decimal). 

NOT ETA B = 03E8 = 1000 

Note table occupies 03E8 thru 03F F (hexadecimal) = 1000 thru 1023 (decimal). Note overlap with interval table. 

Contents of tables: 

01234567 89ABCDEF 

03E0: — 00 00 04 F9 07 F5 OC FB ED EO D3 C7 BC Bl A7 

03F0: 9D 94 8C 84 7C 75 6E 68 62 5C 57 52 4D 49 45 41 



Algorithm Description 

Ml. (Initialize) Point PET hard- 
ware interrupt vector to M2. 
SET Q, R, and N to 8; zero 

music table 1(1), 1(2) 1(8). 

Set P, V, and D to 1. 

M2. (Interrupt enters here) Decre- 
ment note duration counter D; 
if result is nonzero, go to 
PROCEED below. 

M3.(Next note) Reset D to 4 (or 
other chosen length of note to 
be played, in units of y 60 sec- 
ond). Look up interval I(P) 
and add that to note N, stay- 
ing in allowed range (0 to 23). 
Decrement pointer P; if result 
is nonzero, go to step M6. 



M4. (A measure of eight notes has 
been completed) Reset P to 8. 
Decrement voice V (bit pattern 
making sound) by 4 (or other 
choice), and if result is 
negative, reset V to maximum 
(=85). Change voice of note 
(POKE 59466, V). If counter Q 
is nonzero, invert interval I(Q) 
by negating value of I(Q), 
decrement Q and go to step 
M6. 

M5.(All eight inversions have 
been completed) Reset Q to 
8. Replace interval I(R) by 
another "randomly" chosen 
interval from the allowed 
table of intervals (in musical 
notation, table contains 
thirds, fifths, octaves, etc). 



Decrement R, and if R 
becomes 0, reset R to 8. 

M6. (Play next note) Play new 
note NOTETAB(N). looked 
up in notetable. (POKE 59464, 
NOTETAB(N).) 

PROCEEDJump to PET's normal 
interrupt-handling routine 
(E685). 

To use Tiny Timesharing Music 
give command SYS(826) to turn 
music on and off. (You must turn 
it off before tape operations, 
since the PET uses the same inter- 
face chip when reading/writing 
tapes ) 



distinct-tone-quality bit patterns. 
(Patterns 00000000 and 11111111 are 
not included, since they're inaudible.) 
When written as binary numbers, 
the legal (irreducible) bit patterns 
have some interesting resemblances 
to the set of prime numbers (numbers 
that have no positive factors except 
themselves and 1). They are quite 
dense at the lower end of the range of 
available numbers, but become fewer 
and farther between as the candidate 
numbers get larger. There's a simple 
reason for that: if a large number is 
chosen at random, it's likely that 



some combination of the operations 
ROL, INV, and REV will be able to 
transform it into a smaller number, a 
previous case. (Similarly, there is a 
good chance that a large integer 
chosen at random has a factor among 
the many smaller integers between 
itself and 1, so the density of prime 
numbers decreases.) However, even 
as you go to higher numbers, an occa- 
sional pair of distinctive bit patterns 
appears, separated by a single even 
number. Among the 8-bit musical 
patterns, the pair 43 = 00101011 and 
45 = 00101101 is a good example of 



such a "musical-pair"; if you look at 
16-bit patterns, which potentially 
range from 1 thru 65535, pairs such as 
11059, 11061 can be found. Prime 
numbers can also come in such pairs; 
as far as I know, however, there is no 
proof that an infinite number of 
prime pairs exist. There may be other 
analogies between the theory of 
primes and the distinct-voice musical 
bit patterns — I'd be interested in hear- 
ing about your discoveries. 

From Tones to Music 

I began this discussion with a look 



86 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Ml: 



LOOP1: 



M2: 
M3: 



OVER1: 



OVER2: 



M4: 



OVER3: 



M5: 



M6: 



PROCEED: 



SEI 

LDA $0219 

EOR #$E9 

STA $0219 

LDA $021A 

EOR #$E5 

STA $021A 

LDA $E84B 

EOR #$10 

STA $E84B 

LDY #8 

STY Q 

STYR 

STYN 

LDA #0 

STA I,Y 

DEY 

BNE LOOP1 

INY 

STYP 

STY V 

STYD 

CLI 

RTS 

DEC D 

BNE PROCEED 

LDA #8 

STAD 

LDXP 

LDA I,X 

CLC 

ADC N 

BPL OVER1 

ADC #$0C 

BPL OVER2 

CMP #$18 

BCC OVER2 

SBC #$0C 

STAN 

DECP 

BNEM6 

LDY #$8 

STYP 

LDA V 

SEC 

SBC #4 

BPL OVER3 

LDA #$55 

STA V 

STA $E84A 

LDXQ 

BEQM5 

SEC 

LDA #0 

SBC I,X 

STAI.X 

DEC Q 

BPLM6 

STYQ 

INC RNDPTR 

LDX RNDPTR 

LDA 0,X 

EORRNDNUM 

STA RNDNUM 

AND #$7 

TAX 

LDA INTRVLTAB.X 

LDXR 

STA I,X 

DECR 

BNEM6 

STYR 

LDXN 

LDA NOTETAB.X 

STA $E848 

IMP $E685 



.'disable interrupts during changeover 

;PET hardware interrupt vectors thru $0219,021A 

;changes normal contents, $85, to $6C, and vice versa 



.'changes $E6 to $03, and vice versa 

; = 59467, auxiliary control register 

;change $00 to and from $10 (free-running shift out) 

;now initialize page zero music counters 



;clear out music table in 1+ 1 thru 1 + 8 



; initialize more page zero counters 



;re-enable interrupts 

;this is where interrupt vector was changed to point to 

;keep playing same note for duration D 

;value may be changed to vary tempo. . .4 thru 16 is nice. 



;fetch next interval from music table to be added to note N 



;if displacement made N negative, add 12 to move up an 

octave 

;always take the branch (this could be omitted to save 2 

bytes) 

;make N less than 24 

;subtract an octave to get in range 

;move note pointer back one 
;go to play note if nonzero 

;reset pointer P 

;change voice (tone quality, bit pattern shifted out) used 
;change this number 4 if other patterns are desired 

;reset to maximum interesting pattern ( = 85 decimal) 

; = 59466, shift register 

;branch if it's time to change an interval randomly 

.'invert an interval (negate it) in music table 



;always take branch 

;reset Q to 8 

;move pointer forward 

;get a "random" number from page zero 

;mix its bits with previous "random" ones 

;save them for future mixing 

;mask out bits to get a "random" # in range thru 7 

,'prepare to take an interval from INTRVLTAB table 

;find out which music table entry to alter 
linsert new "random" interval 



,'reset R to 8 if necessary 
;find what note to play 

; =59464, controls shift rate 

;return to normal interrupt-handling chores 



Listing 3: Tiny Timesharing Music. This 
interrupt-driven program runs concur- 
rently with other PET programs, and uses 
their changing data to update its tone- 
parameters (see the text box "Algorithm 
Description"). The interrupt occurs every 
y 60 of a second to cause the PET to check 
the keyboard for closed keys. 

at Fourier analysis, and have 
wandered through a bit of group 
theory in looking at shift-register- 
generated tones and what they sound 
like. I'd like to close with a practical 
application of this material. 

I often run fairly long programs, 
and it can be boring to stare at a static 
video screen, waiting for the results 
to appear. Then, too, I sometimes 
become paranoid and suspect that the 
machine has crashed, leaving me to 
wait forever. Well, I thought, why 
not put a little musical theory to 
work? Why not have music while I'm 
waiting for the programs to finish? 

The more I thought about it, the 
better the proposal sounded. The PET 
is always interrupted sixty times per 
second, to scan the keyboard and up- 
date the internal clock. (This happens 
as long as the interrupt-disable flag 
hasn't been set in the 6502 micropro- 
cessor; the flag is rarely set during 
normal operation.) At each interrupt, 
the microprocessor branches to the 
address stored in memory locations 
0219, 021A. Normally, these ad- 
dresses point to hexadecimal location 
E685, but by changing the address 
pointed to, I could take control once 
every V 60 second — and play music! 

The requirements that a good 
interrupt-driven music-generation 
program must meet are rather severe: 

1. It must produce interesting 
musical patterns, neither too 
repetitious nor too chaotic. 

2. It must be fast so that the main 
program does not slow down ap- 
preciably while music is playing. 

3. It must be small; the main pro- 
grams must not be squeezed out of 
memory or restricted by the music 
generator. 

The program shown in listing 3 
resulted. Tiny Timesharing Music 
meets the third requirement by occu- 
pying only the memory at locations 
826 thru 1023 (second cassette 
buffer), plus five locations on page 
zero. It satisfies the second require- 
ment by being fast; running at normal 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 87 





pppfc* ][ 

i6K lomputer 

DISK with CONTROLLER 
NEW DOS 3.3 $535 
without . . . $429 
Nearly Everything 
for Apple 



WE WILL BEAT 

ANY ADVERTISED PRICES 

ON MOST ITEMS IF MERCHANDISE 

IN STOCK 



APPLE SOFTWARE 



Adventure by Microsoft 29 

Apple Bowl 19 

Apple Stellar Invaders 19 

Assembler/Disassembler 69 

Applebug Debugger 29 

AppleGraph & Plot Sys 59 

Applepost Mailing List Sys 44 

Applesoft Cassette Demos 29 

Applesoft Util. Prog. — Hayden 29 

Applewriter Word Processor 65 

Asteroids in Space 19 

Autostart ROM Pkg 59 

Battleship Commander 19 

Bill Budges Space Game Album 39 

Bill Budges 3-D Graphics/Tool 39 

Bill Budges Trilogy of Games 29 

Cashier Retail Mgmt. Sys 199 

Checkbook Cassette 19 

Contrib. Vols. 1-5 w/man 29 

Controller Bus. Pkg 514 

Cosmos Mission/Disk 25 

CCA Data Mgmt. Sftwe 84 

3-D Animation Pack 55 

Desktop Plan Sftwe 79 

DOS Tool Kit 65 



DOS 3.3 Upgrade 49 

Dow Jones Portfolio Evaluator 45 

Fastgammon 23 

Forth II by Programma 45 

Fortran for Language Sys 159 

Head-on 25 

Integer Basic Cassette Demos 29 

PASCAL Language Sys 459 

Sargon II Chess Game disk 34 

Shell Games 29 

Single Disk Copy Routines 17 

Space Invader 25 

Star Cruiser 24 

Stellar Trek 23 

Sub-Logic FS-1 Fit. Sim./disk 34 

Sybex Apple-80 8080 Sim 19 

Tax Planner 99 

The Correspondent 35 

Tranquility Base 24 

Visicalc by Personal Sftwe 119 

Complete Peachtree Business 
Package for Apple 

AND MUCH MORE . . . 




CALL 

PHONE ORDERS 

MON. - SAT. 8 to 6 P.S.T. 



APPLE COMPUTER 
INTERFACE CARDS 

HiSpeed Serial Int. 7710A 145 

Applesoft II Firmware Cd 149 

Centronics Interface Cd 179 

Apple Clock/Calendar Cd. 

by Mtn. Comp 225 

Comm. Cd. & DB25 Cable 179 

Integer Basic Firmware Cd 149 

Parallel Printer Cd 139 

CCS Parallel Print Cd. 7720A 155 

ROMPLUS w/keyboard filter 165 

ROMPLUS (keyboard filter extra) ... 159 
SSM AIO Serial/Parallel I/O 

Assembled & Tested 189 

Serial Interface Cd 139 

ACCESSORIES 

Apple Joystick 47 

ABT Numer. Input Keyboard A or B 114 

A/D D/A Board by Mtn. Comp 319 

Arith. Processor 781 1 A or B 339 

Clear Cover for Apple Computer 25 

COPYROM by Mtn. Comp 51 

Corrus 10MByte Disk w/pwr. supp. 4395 

Dan Paymar L.C. Kit 1 or 2 59 

Extender Board 27 

GPIB by CCS model 7490A 259 

Graphics Input Tablet 649 

Hayes Micromodem' 319 

Introl X-10 Remote Control Sys 239 

Introl X-10 Controller Only 169 

M&R Sup-R-Term 80 column board . 329 

Microsoft Z-80 Soft Card 295 

Novation Cat Modem 159 

Programmable Timer CCS 7440A ... 159 

Prototyping Hobby Card 22 

ROMWRITER by Mtn. Comp 149 

Speechlink 2000/64 Word Vocab. ... 215 
SuperTalker Speech Synthesizer. . . . 239 

Symtec Light Pen 214 

Versa-Writer Digitizer 

Drawing System 209 

Videx Videoterm 279 



"BEST PRINTER VALUE IN THE WORLD' 
Check our prices on THE ULTIMATE IN QUALITY 

Epson Rinters 

APPLE & MOST OTHER COMPUTERS 



NEW! MX80 

40, 80, 132 columns 

LIST $&45' 

TX 80 w/Graph/cs 

LIST p£3 

Apple Controller & Card 
& Cable 

LIST |M<T 




OUR 
PRICE 

CALL 



• Most reliable small printers ever sold! 

• Uses standard printed paper. 

• Graphics option transfers screen image 
directly to paper. 




IF 



A 

ATARI 

MAKES 

IT, WE 

SELL IT 



Assembler/Editor 45 

Atari 400 Computer 439 

Atari 820 Printer 429 

Atari 810 Disk Drive 499 

Atari 410 Program Recorder 69 

Atari 16K RAM Module 149 

Atari Basic ROM 45 

Atari Visicalc 129 

Basketball 30 

Video Easel 30 

Super Breakout 30 

Music Composer 45 

Computer Chess 30 

Star Raiders 39 

3D T ic-Tac-Toe 30 

Joystick 19 

Space Invaders 19 



PRINTERS, MONITORS, DISCS 



Anadex DP8000 795 

Anadex DP8000AP 795 

Color Monitor 375 

Daisy Wheel Printer 1795 

MPI 88T 595 

NEC Spinwriter #5510 2595 



Paper Tiger 440 w/Graphics 895 

Paper Tiger 460 w/Graphics 1 195 

Silentype w/interface Cd 510 

Sanyo 9" B&W 169 

Sanyo 15" B&W 259 

NEC Green Screen 12" 239 



Dysan disks (pkg. 10) 50 

Memorex disks (pkg. 10) 40 

Opus disks (pkg. 10) 35 

Televideo 912C 699 

Televideo 920C 749 

Verbatim disks (pkg. 10) 30 



LEEDEX VIDEO 100 
12" BlackS White $11 9 



jfe MONTHLY jfc 
^ SPECIALS * 



CENTRONICS 737 
$737 



cable extra 




OUR PRICE CALL 



LARGE STOCK OF SOFTWARE & ACCESSORIES 






(714) 579-0330 • MAIL TO: 1251 broadway, el cajon, ca. 92021 



Circle 51 on inquiry card. 



speed it uses about 18 /ts every % 
second — only 0.1% of the machine's 
time. (Changing notes at top speed 
uses less than 0.4% of the time.) As 
for whether or not it meets the first 
criterion, you'll have to judge for 
yourself: "interesting" is in the ear of 
the beholder. I enjoy it, although it's 
certainly nowhere near Bach's Art of 
Fugue... then again, nothing is. 

The algorithm description which 
accompanies this listing (see the text 
box "Algorithm Description") should 
make its method of operation clear. 
The theory of music is beyond the 
scope of this article (and me!), but in 
brief, the program works as follows: 
first it generates eight intervals, 
chosen from a musically "nice" set of 
possibilities (see Arthur Benade's 
book, and other references, for more 
details). Beginning with a base note, 
eight notes are played, each related to 
the previous note by one of the 
chosen intervals. After a measure of 
eight notes is completed, the bit pat- 
tern (voice) being used by the shift 
register is changed, one of the eight 
intervals is inverted, and another 
measure is played. (Inversion simply 
amounts to a sign change: an interval 



of +7 (a fifth) is inverted to —7.) 
After all eight intervals have been in- 
verted, one is replaced by a new, ran- 
domly-chosen interval, and the whole 
process is repeated. The "random" 
numbers are influenced by the con- 
tents of page zero, so if the user is do- 
ing something, or running any pro- 
gram, the musical patterns produced 
will never repeat for long. 

As always, I will be delighted to 
learn of any improvements that 
readers make in this musical pro- 
gram. The best way to test ideas for 
musical pattern generation is to run 
them as non-timeshared BASIC pro- 
grams. Then they're easily modified 
and debugged, and if they sound 
good, they can be coded in assembly 
language. In Tiny Timesharing Music 
as presently written, it's easy to 
change the tempo of the notes: just 
POKE 881,X where X is the length of 
the notes in units of V 60 second 
(values of X between 4 and 16 seem to 
work best). The contents of memory 
location 918 govern the changes be- 
tween one voice and the next: the 
number there (and in location 922) 
may be changed to vary the sequence 
of bit patterns used. The table of 



musical intervals in locations 
993-1000 can be varied according to 
taste, as can the table of notes 
(1000-1023; note that one table entry 
is in common, to save space). I use a 
digital approximation to a well- 
tempered scale, but you may prefer 
another choice.! 



References 

1 .Apel, Willi and Ralph T Daniel. The Harvard 
Brief Dictionary of Music. Pocket Books, 
1960. 

2.Benade, Arthur H. Horns, Strings and Har- 
mony. Doubleday Anchor Books, 1960. 
3. BYTE magazine, September 1977. Several 
interesting and useful articles, especially one 
by Hal Chamberlin, page 62. 
4.Crawford, Frank S. Waves — Berkeley 
Physics Course, Volume 3. McGraw-Hill, 
1968. 

5.Feynman, Richard P. The Feynman Lec- 
tures on Physics, Volume 1 , lecture 50. 
Addison-Wesley, 1963. 
6. Foster, Caxton C. Programming a 
Microcomputer: 6502. Addison-Wesley, 
1978. 

7.Kinnard, J R. "Generating square waves 
with the PET," PET User Notes, Volume 1, 
Number 3. Published by Gene Beals, POB 
371, Montgomeryville PA 18936. 
8.Rabiner, Lawrence R and Charles M 
Rader, Editors. Digital Signal Processing. 
IEEE Press, 1972. 



"^-^^ Anti-Static a j^~^ 

DustCcwers 

Protect your computer and accessories. 

• Anti-static vinyl helps prevent static from 
damaging sensitive components and caus- 
ing faulty operation. 

• Double-fold stitching will not rip out and is 
unmatched for strength and long life. 

• Heavy gauge textured vinyl blends 
with any decor and folds easily for 
convenient storage. 

• Over 1000 custom designs gua 
ranteed to fit precisely. 

• 100% satisfaction guarantee 
means we stand behind our 
product. 

Yes, there are differences ,« 

in Dust Covers. Differences 
which can be vitally 
important to the proper ■ "^58 

functioning of your system. 




THE BEST 
DUST COVERS 
AT ANY PRICE 



MOST PRICED 

$7.95 to $11.95 

PLUS POSTAGE AMD 

HANDLING 

VISA-MasterCharge 



At Cover Craft we've manufactured the 
highest quality Dust Covers for the electronics 
industry for more than six years. We've been 
selected by major equipment manufacturers 
to make covers for their products. Our covers 
are in use in every state and in more than 50 
countries. We know what it takes! 



So visit your dealer or contact Cover Craft for 
our latest catalog and list of over 200 dealers. 

C COVER CRAFT 
P.O. BOX 555 • AM H ERST , N H 03031 • (60: 



(603)889-6811 



90 February 19B1 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 52 on Inquiry card. 



BASIC SOFTWARE LIBRARY 

NOW • 10 • Volumes and Growing 

For Homeowners, Businessmen, Engineers, Hobbyists, Doctors, Lawyers, Men and Women 
This month we will highlight some of the many extra assets contained in Volumes 




"Volume I $24.95 

Business & Personal 
Bookkeeping Programs 

'Volume II $24.95 

Math & Engineering 

'Volume III $39.95 

Advanced Business Programs 

'Volume IV $9.95 

General Purpose Programs 

'Volume V $9.95 

Experimenters Programs 

'Volume VI $49.95 

General Ledger Programs 

"Volume VII $39.95 

Professional Programs 

"Volume VIII $19.95 

Homeowner Programs 

"Volume IX $19.95 

Travelers Programs 

"Volume X $69.95 

Total Business Package 

* See Dec. 80 Byte Ad for complete table of 
contents. 



VOLUME III - ADVANCED BUSINESS PROGRAMS 

Tens of thousands of satisfied customers have purchased this volume. It is one of our three 
most popular volumes and has been for the last four years. While containing only eight 
proprams with an average program length of 12K Bytes they have proven to be real winners! 
The Billing, Inventory and Payroll programs are designed to be used with non-disk computer 
systems and just as most such systems can be upgraded to disk operating, modification 
details are already included in this volume so that at the same time you upgrade your system 
you may convert these programs for disk usage. Sold for $1500 each, nationally, for several 
years before inclusion in our software library, these programs will print paychecks, customer 
bills, mailing labels, tabulated reports and allow over a dozen different modes of operation. To 
assist the businessman in making some costly decisions we have some very special programs 
that will help — schedule shipments of goods based on different demands, assign resources 
and people power efficiently; based on your priorities, analyze the risk factors for certain 
capital investments, compute the intrinsic value of stocks and lastly to compute the effects on 
bond yields when planning a switch. All of the programs contained in this volume are modular 
in structure (comprised of subroutines for each main function) allowing you to use the sub- 
routines separately or to link them together to generate more highly specialized programs. 

VOLUME X - A TOTAL BUSINESS SYSTEM 

This program was sold for years for over $10,000, now yours for only $69.95. 

This volume contains the most comprehensive business — accounting — financial program 
package available in the micro field. Set up to handle businesses using the accrual system and 
standard double entry ledgers it can also be used by cash system businesses. Computer 
system requirements are at least 24K Bytes of free memory, 100K Bytes minimum of disk 
storage, and a printer. The programs will operate under Microsoft Disk Extended Basic and 
also under "M Basic" on those systems equipped with CP/M. The programs in this volume will 
perform all necessary bookkeeping and accounting functions presently being handled by 
clerks and accountants. Besides providing routine business functions such as: A/R, Payroll 
accounting, Billing, Inventory control, etc.; there are sections for Fixed Asset accounting, 
maintenance of mailing lists, Taxes (both quarterly & annually), a comprehensive A/P section 
and a special Financial section that provides you with Profit & Loss statements and Balance 
Sheets — whenever you want them. It performs all check writing functions and the Check 
Register routine even allows for the addition of manually written checks. Eliminates the need 
for multiple recordings of the same transaction. Sales entries are made once, when the sale is 
made, the program will them update Cash on Hand or A/R, Inventory for Sale, and your Daily 
Sales Report — PLUS cut an immediate invoice; if desired. Another "special" feature of this 
package allows for FULL updating of all data files including customer and inventory data, daily 
sales, checks, assets, etc. on a daily basis, or weekly, or even hourly if you have specialized 
needs that can only be met in this way. Overall the program routines are about 80K Bytes long 
and automatic paging techniques are used to allow small systems to utilize the programs. 



Almostevery single program included in these volumes will run in every Computer 
system that operates in Basic. A few changes may be required for some Basics 
but most of these changes are covered in one of the Tables and Appendices 
included in Volumes III, V, VI, VIII, and X. 

Volume VI — Disk programs are 
compatible with TRS-80 disk basic 

The disk programs in Volumes VI, VII and X are written in (CP/M) M Basic and Disk Extended 
Microsoft Basic. Other programs written in 8K Basic. 



Unconditional Money Back Guarantee. 

Add $1.50 per volume handling, all domestic shipments sent U.P.S. except APO and 
P.O. Box which go parcel post. Foreign orders add $6.00/volume for air shipment and 
makepayable in U.S. dollars only. 

AVAILABLE AT MOST COMPUTER STORES 

Master Charge and Bank Americard accepted. 

Our Software is copyrighted and may not be reproduced or sold. 

Unlike others we have NOT raised our prices in five years 



KEMCO, LTD. 

P.O. Box 2096 Ashland, VA 23005 

Sales HOTLINE 804-798-1147 



IN GERMANY 

Ing. W. Hofacker, GmbH 
Holzkirchen, W. Germany 



IN HOLLAND 

Nanton Press B.V. 
Bilthoven, Holland 




III 



IN USE TODAY 



COMPUTER 
FORMS KIT 



with continuous business forms 
for small computer systems 

Each kit contains samples, programming 
guides, flyers, prices and order forms for 
checks, invoices, statements, envelopes, 
stock paper and labels to fit almost every 
computer system. 

• Available in quantities of 500, 1,000, 2,000 
4,000, 6,000 

• Low Prices (500 checks only $32.50) 





INVOIBB 



jzt 



XT 



itwy*,- 



ZET 



Z3ZT 



• PAST SERVICE — It is our policy to ship 
within 6 working days following our 
receipt of your order. 

• MONEY BACK GUARANTEE — If for any 
reason you are not completely satisfied, 
your money will be promptly refunded. 

Fasf Service by mail or. . .PHONE TOLL FREE 
1 + 800-225-9550 

Mass. residents 1 + 800-922-8560 
8:30 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. Eastern Time Monday — Friday 



Please Ship FREE Kit To: 
Name 



CODE 460 



Company 



Street 



City, State and Zip 



Phone 



Computer make & model 



f '3 „ Nebs. _ 

* mm — — — — ■ Computer Ftnms -J 

78 Holtis Street, Groton,M ass. 01450 

A division of New England Business Seivice, Inc. 
92 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc Circle 53 On Inquiry Card. 



Programming Quickies 



Converting 
Pitch to Frequency 

Robert Katz, 248 E 90th St, #3B, New York NY 10028 

This program converts pitch to frequency and can use 
either the piano tuner's scale (based on a perfect fifth in- 
terval), or the scientific, or "just," scale (based on a 
perfect octave interval). The scales are equally tempered 
in either case. 

The program is written in RPN (reverse Polish nota- 
tion) for a Hewlett-Packard calculator. Step 8 includes a 
GTO instruction. If your calculator has labels instead of 
step numbers, use a label at steps 8, 10, 32, and 35. 

To use the program, place a number from 1 to 7 in the 
x register. This represents one of the notes from C to B in 
the 12-note scale. To indicate the standard "whole" tones, 
use a whole number (such as 1 for C, 6 for A, etc). To in- 
dicate an accidental, use an integer plus 0.5 (6.5 for A#, 
2.5 for D#). If the tones are to be in the octave of middle 
C, make sure a is contained in the y register. Otherwise, 
the number in the y register should be an integer 
representing the number of octaves above or below 
middle C. For example, 5.5, —2 represents G§, two oc- 
taves below the octave of middle C. Once the pitch has 
been entered, all you have to do is press R/S. For 
example, enter (6, 0) and press R/S. This will display 440, 
which is the pitch of A in the octave of middle C. 

The formula is: 

261.25 X (-3T ) Pl+P2 



Listing 1: A program to convert pitch to frequency. This listing 
is in the RPN (reverse Polish notation) for a Hewlett-Packard 
calculator. If your calculator uses labels instead of step 
numbers, a label must be used at steps 8, 10, 32, and 35. In a 
calculator with continuous memory, steps 15 thru 21 and steps 
24 thru 29 can be replaced with a constant recalled from 
memory. 



1 


f fixO 


20. 


q 1/x 


? 


1 


21. 


f r 


a 




22. 


x~y 


4 


2 


23. 


f r 


S 


X 


24. 


2 


6, 


5 


25. 


6 


7. 


f x<y 


26. 


1 


8 


GTO 32 


27. 




q 


i 


28. 


2 


in. 


x~y 


29. 


5 


11. 


1 


30. 


X 


17 


2 


31. 


GTO 00 (or q RTN) 


13. 


X 


32. 


1 


14. 


+ 


33. 


1 


IS. 


1 


34. 


- 


16. 




35. 


GTO 10 


17. 


5 






18. 


ENTER 






19. 


7 







WHY CIS COBOL 

LETS YOUR 

MICROCOMPUTER 

PERFORM LIKE A 



MAINF 



Now, you can use a microcomputer for 
sophisticated business applications 
. . . because now there's CIS COBOL. 
Micro Focus developed this COBOL so 
your microcomputer can run the same 
programs as a minicomputer or a 
mainframe. 

CIS COBOL is Micro Focus' Compact, 
Interactive, Standard COBOL which 
offers the advantages of COBOL . . . 
powerful data structure features, English- 
like language, existing programmer 
expertise ... to provide you with a full 
commercial language. You won't be 
restricted by size either: a 64K byte 
microcomputer will compile up to 8000 
lines of COBOL, more if the program's 
split into dynamically loaded modules. 

Choose a Compact Compiler. 

The Compact compiler runs on 32K byte 
microcomputer systems. Its powerful 
subset includes full support for random, 
indexed and sequential files. 

Or choose the 
Standard Compiler. 

The Standard CIS COBOL compiler 
requires a minimum 48K of user RAM. 
A super-set of the Compact compiler, 
implementing ANSI 74 COBOL to 
Federal Low-intermediate Level. 



The same CIS COBOL 
extensions for conversational 
working, screen control, interactive 
debugging, and special peripheral sup 
port are in both compilers. And there are 
more reasons to consider CIS COBOL: 

• It conforms fully to the ANSI 74 stand- 
ard, so programs are portable upwards 
and downwards to minis or mainframes. 

• Its interactive features enable main- 
frame programmers to get results fast. . . 
working on inexpensive microcomputers. 

Forms 

The FORMS utility lets you build a 
screen layout online at the CRT. Then 
it automatically generates COBOL 
record descriptions for inclusion in your 
program. 

Forms-2 

A superset of FORMS, it eliminates the 
need to write simple data entry and 
inquiry programs, because the programs 
can be automatically generated from 
screen definitions. 

Environment 

CIS COBOL products run on the 8080 
or Z80 microprocessors under the CP/M* 
operating system, and on the LSI-11 
or PDP-11 processors under RT-11. 
They are distributed in a variety of disk 
formats and come with a utility that 
enables you to use any make of CRT. 

OEMs 

Intel has adopted CIS COBOL and offers 
it (as iCIS-COBOL) for their Intellec and 




Intellec II systems. Ideal 
for OEM's or private label, 
CIS COBOL was developed 
entirely by Micro Focus. Send 
inquiries for CIS COBOL object packs 
and application vendor terms to MICRO 
FOCUS or its licensed distributors. 
Distributor terms also available from 
MICRO FOCUS. 



Send me more information for: B2 

□ Single Copy Users 

□ Reseller and Distributor Licensing 

Name 

Title 

Company 

Address 

City/State 



Zip/Phone 

Computer Model. 
Version of DOS_ 



MICRO FOCUS' 



Micro Focus Inc. ■ 1601 Civic Center Drive ■ 
Santa Clara ■ CA 95050 • Tel: (408) 984-6961 • 
Telex: 171-135 MISSION SNTA 

U.K. Office • 58 Acacia Road • St. Johns Wood • 
London NW8 6AG • Tel: 01 722 8843 ■ Telex: 
228536 MICROF G 



CIS COBOL distributors include: Vector Graphic, Onyx Systems, Altos Computer Systems, Lifeboat Associates, Research Machines, Telecomputing, Modular Business Systems, Rair, Midlectron, 
Rostronics and Johnson-Laird Inc. tlntellec is a trademark of Intel Corp. *CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research Inc. 

BYTE February 1981 93 



where Pi is a power within the octave of middle C. P 2 is a 
power that will reach any octave above or below middle 
C. Steps 15 thru 21 compute the seventh root of 3 / 2 , 
which is the relationship of a semitone within the piano- 
tuner's scale, based on perfect fifths and stretched oc- 
taves. Replace steps 15 thru 21 with the twelfth root of 2 
and you will have the standard, perfect octave scale. 
When using the perfect octave scale, you may have to 
change steps 24 thru 29 to 261.63 to obtain an A 440. 
Steps 24 thru 29 are the frequency of middle C, on which 
the program is based. Note also that steps 32 thru 35 are a 
correction factor based on the half step between E and F 
in the scale.! 



BYTE's Bits 



NSF Awards 
Education Grant 

The NSF (National 
Science Foundation) has 
awarded Educational Solu- 
tions Inc a grant for the 
development of courseware 
that will demonstrate new 
ways to teach numeration, 




$115.00 UNI 
QUANTITY 

A handful of compact switching power St the incredibly low price 
of$115! 

But don't be mislead by price. This is no stripped down, coverless 
pretender that tries to pass as a switcher.^ 

POWER-ONE'S new SD Series is a true high performance switching 
power supply in every sense of the word. It meets- impressive specifi- 
cations while employing the absolute latest state-of-the-art power 
conversion techniques. Yet it's smaller, lighter, and more reliable than 
the rest. 

All at a cost that combines affordability with the finest features of 
switching technology. The result is a dramatic new dimension in 
switching power supply value. 

See for yourself. For fast action, write or phone for our new 1980 
Catalog with complete details on the exciting new SD Series. 
ModelsChart 



MODEL 


VOLTAGE 


CURRENT 


SD5-10 


5V 


10A 


SD12-4.2 


12V 


4.2A 


SD15-3.4 


15V 


3.4A 


SD24-2.1 


24V 


2.1A 


SD28-1.8 


28V 


1.8A 



mmwm°oi 




d.c. power supplies 



Power-One, Inc. 
(805) 484-2806 



Power One Drive • Camarillo, CA 93010 
(805)987-3891 • TWX 910-336-1297 



addition, and subtraction. 
The New York City-based 
research and development 
organization's approach 
stresses learning through 
insight and practice rather 
than rote memorization. 
Feedback from the instructor 
helps guide and refine the 
student's growing insight. 
According to Educational 
Solutions's hypothesis, 
perceptual activities, feed- 
back, and practice eventual- 
ly teach the student practical 
skills. 

Under the provisions of 
the grant, Educational Solu- 
tions must first produce a 
prototype of the course- 
ware, then test it on public 
school students. After anal- 
ysis, the courseware will be 
revised and prepared for 
distribution. 



OSU's TABS Project 

The College of Education 
at OSU (Ohio State Univer- 
sity) is busily at work on 
project TABS. The purpose 
of this project is to develop 
and disseminate curricular 
materials in which high 
technologies are used to 
teach basic mathematical 
skills such as problem solv- 
ing, estimation, and com- 
puter literacy. Funded by 
the US Department of 
Education, project TABS's 
goal is to collect and 
evaluate existing educational 
software for microcomputers 
and select the highest quality 
programs for distribution. 
The programs are to be field 
tested and distributed 
nationally. 

Individuals or groups who 
have developed mathematics 
software for the upper 
elementary-school level are 
invited to submit their work 
for possible inclusion in the 
project. To have materials 
considered, send a cassette 
tape or floppy disk with a 
printout, machine docu- 
mentation, and any related 
information to Dr Suzanne 
K Damarin, TABS Project, 
Arps Hall 202-A, 1945 N 
High St, Columbus OH 
43210, (614) 422-1257. ■ 



94 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 54 on Inquiry card. 



Free software ($50-$120 worth). Plus a cash 
rebate when you buy the programmable. 




B.E./ 

INVESTMENT 

MODULE 



□ $40 



□ $40 



□ $40 



□ $40 



Fluid 

Dynamics 


(Mm 




□ $10 


Lab 
Chemistry 


r m ) 




D$io * 


3D Graphics 


f A 1 






RPN 
SIMULATOR 
MODULE 



□ $45 



□ $10 * 



□ $10 



□ $10 





Production/ 
Planning 






>. ^ J 











□ $10 



□ $10 



Electronic 
Engineering 


<sSm 


i 


□ $io 




Oil/Gas/ 
Energy 



□ $10 



Statistical 
Testing 



□ $10 



LD$io 



2 FREE modules, 2 FREE 
Pakettes with a TI-59. 

1 FREE module, 1 FREE Pakette 

with a V^^m 

TI-58C. - ^ 



Free software plus cash rebates. 

A $10rebateon aTI-58C--$25rebateonaTI-59. 




ip 



The TI-58C. An exceptional value. 

Up to 480 program steps or 60 mem- 
ories. Plus Constant Memory™ that 
retains data when turned off. $130. 

The TI-59. Top-of-the-Line. 

Up to 960 program steps or 100 
memories. Magnetic card read/ 
write capability. $300. 

Modules turn a programmable 
into a dedicated calculator. Pakettes 
have selected programs you key in. 



□ I've bought a TI-58C. Send me the one module and the 
one Packelte listed below, plus my $10 rebate. 

□ I've bought a TI-59. Send me the two modules and two 
Packettes listed below, plus my $25 rebate. 
MODULES: PAKETTES 



~P 



Name 



Address 



ALTERNATE. 



. ALTERNATE . 



City 



State 



Zip 



Send to: Texas Instruments Free Software Offer 

P.O. Box 725, Oept. M, Lubbock, Texas 79491 Calculator Serial Number (from back ol unit) 

Return this coupon with (1) Customer Information Card (packed with calculator), (2) Dated copy of proof of purchase between 
January 1, 1981 — March 31, 1981. Items must be postmarked by April 14, 1981. Please allow 30 days lor delivery. Offer void 
where prohibited. Offer good in U.S.A. Tl reserves the right to substitute items. See your Tl Dealer lor complete details. 



U.S. suggested retail prices. * For use with TI-59 only. 



Texas Instruments 



©1981 Texas Instruments Incorporated 



INCORPORATED 



45746A 



Apple en castellano 

Tercer Medio 
presenta 
su sistema 
administrativo 

(T.M.A.) para Apple 11 

Disenado de acuerdo con los principios 
contables aceptados en todos los pai'ses 
de habla hispana. 

APLICACIONES COMERCIALES 
YCIENTIFICAS 



• CONTABILIDAD 
GENERAL 

Diario General 
Resumen del Diario 
Consulta parcial al Diario 
Mayor General 
Balance de Comprobacion 
Balance General 
Ganancias y Perdidas 
Catalogos de Cuentas 
Consultas por pantalla 



• CUENTAS 
POR COBRAR 

Catalogo de Cuentas 
Listado de Transacciones 
Antiguedad de Saldos 
Saldos por Veneer 
Relacion de Cobranzas 
Relacion de Pagos 
Estado de Cuentas 
Consultas varias por pantalla 



INVENTARIO Y FACTURACION 

CONTROL DE BANCOS 

PERT/CPM 

CUENTAS A PAGAR 

CONTROL DE COSTO DE OBRAS 

VENTAJAS DEL SISTEMA T.M.A. 

Son completamentes conversacionales. 

El chequeo de la informacion es instantaneo. 

Los reportes impresos o por pantalla guardan 

los formatos generalmente aceptados. 

Estan pensados para adaptarse a cualquier 

empresa. 

Toda la informacion esta instantaneamente 

disponible. 

Precision Expandida. 

Numeros de hasta ± 999.999.999.99 



53 



Tercer Medio 

Sistema de Informacion C.A. 

APARTADO DE CORREOS 62533 
CARACAS 1060-A - VENEZUELA 
TELEX: 27.876 - CPBTH -VE. 
TELEFONOS: 283.60.88 - 284.74.68 

'Apple es marco regisirada por APPLE COMPUTER INC 



Software Review 



Infinite BASIC and 
Infinite Business 

Scott Mitchell, 346 S Taylor St, Manchester NH 03103 

Infinite BASIC is a software-utility package for the 
Radio Shack TRS-80 sold by Racet Computes. The pack- 
age has a suggested retail price of $49.95, with an op- 
tional Infinite Business package available for $29.95. 

The purpose of these packages is to add extra com- 
mands to either your disk BASIC or Level II cassette 
system. Infinite BASIC adds eighty commands to your 
BASIC vocabulary, so if you thought the Level III add-on 
for your cassette system was a good deal, you'll consider 
this a steal for the same price. Level III BASIC (from 
Microsoft Consumer Products, Bellevue, Washington) 
always consumes 4 K bytes of memory, even if you use 
only one or two of its features in your program. Infinite 
BASIC lets you take only the features you want and put 
them on a system tape or disk file, thereby saving 
memory space. Also, you can place the resulting object 
code in memory anywhere you wish. These two features 
make Infinite BASIC a versatile package for both disk 
and tape users. 

Infinite BASIC — Matrix and Strings 

Infinite BASIC is the foundation of the program set. 

Text continued on page 100 





Name 


Language 


Infinite BASIC and 


Z80 machine language 


Infinite Business 






Computer 


Type 


Radio Shack TRS-80 


BASIC extension soft- 


with either disk BASIC 


ware system with in- 


or Level II cassette 


dependent application 


system 


modules 






Documentation 


Manufacturer 


Printed booklets 14 by 


Racet Computes 


22 cm (5Vi by 8V2 


702 Palmdale 


inches); for Infinite 


Orange CA 92665 


BASIC, two booklets 


(714) 637-5016 


totaling 84 pages; for 




Infinite Business, one 


Price 


booklet with 21 pages 


Infinite BASIC: 




$49.95; Infinite 


Audience 


Business: $29.95 


Business, game, and 




general programmers 


Format 




5-inch floppy disk or 




tape cassette 





96 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 55 on Inquiry card. 



But no matter what the size, they all give you increased sales, 
greater security, and lower costs. 

Choose from the VIP (315K bytes with optional add-ons uptol.2M 
bytes), the Vector 2800 (2M bytes with 91 msec average access time), 
or the Vector 3030 (32M bytes with 34 msec average access time). 

Each one gives you more disk speed and capacity than compet- 
itive models. So you can offer a less expensive system with more 
capacity than your competition, or one with much greater capacity for 
the same money. 

Our multiple configurations with transportable software do not 
lock you into one level of system. For reliability, Vector builds industry 
standards into each Economy Sized Computer. Standard software and 
components include CP/M2® operating system, Microsoft BASIC-80? 
S-100 bus, 4 MHz, Z80A processor, RS-232C serial ports. 

Our modular systems use common Vector 3 mainframes, boards, 
and printers. They save you time and money on inventory, service, 
staff, and training. Software transportability from one system to the 
next eliminates the cost of -,-. « j ^ 

rewriting or converting Economy Sized Computers 

software and data. Our now Come in small, 

advanced software develop- medium and large. 

ment tools reduce de- 
velopment time dra- 
matically. And since 
we have such a wide 
range of models, we hel p 
you make more sales. 

All this goes to 
prove one thing. 

That is, no mat- 
ter what size system 
you're building, an 
Economy Sized Com- 
puter can be a big help. 

For more infor- 
mation, write Vector, 
31364 Via Col inas, West- 
lake Village, CA 91362. 
Or call 213/991-2302. 





Economy Sized Computers 



Circle 56 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



97 



Stack Work's 



A full, extended FORTH interpreter/compiler 
produces COM PACT, ROM ABLE code. As fast as 
compiled FORTRAN, as easy to use as interactive 
BASIC. 




SELF COMPILING 

Includes every line of source 
necessary to recompile itself. 



:: EXTENSIBLE 
§« Add functions at will. 

CP/M* COMPATIBLE 
Z80or 8080 ASSEMBLER included 

Single license 

Supplied with extensive user manual and tutorial 

$175.00 

Documentation alone: $25.00 

OEM's, we have a deal for you! 

CP/M Formats: 8" soft sectored, 
5" Northstar, 5" Micropolis Mod II, 
Vector MZ.TRS-80 Mod II 

Please specify CPU type. 
Z80or8080 

All Orders and General Information: 
SUPERSOFT ASSOCIATES 
P.O.BOX 1628 
CHAMPAIGN, IL 61820 
(217)359-2112 

Technical Hot Line: (217) 359-2691 
answered only when technician is available) 





VfSA 



SuperSoft 

First in Software Technology 

*CP/M registered trademark Digital Research 



Listing 1: Sample string-manipulation program and run. Note 
that the commands are small and compact. The program in- 
itializes string AS, performs a function on it, and prints it out. 
After each printout of the modified string, AS is reset to its 
original contents and the next operation is performed. With 
each command that modifies AS, the modified string is stored in 
]$. However, it could simply be put back into AS. The program 
runs quite fast. 

I CLS 

10 GOSUB1000 

I I PRINT:PRINT"A$ = (";:PRINTA$; :PRINT")" 

20 J$ = &SLR$(A$,6):' LEFT ROTATION COMMAND 

21 PRINT'XEFT ROTATE BY 6 = (";:PRINTJ$;:PRINT")" 
30 GOSUB1000 

40 J$ = &SRR$(A$,6):' RIGHT ROTATION COMMAND 

50 PRINT"RIGHT ROTATE BY 6 = (";:PRINT]$;:PRINT")" 

60 GOSUB 1000 

70 J$ = &SLJ$(A$):'LEFT JUSTIFICATION COMMAND 

80 PRINT"LEFT JUSTIFIED = (";:PRINTJ$;:PRINT")" 

90 GOSUB1000 

100 J$ = &SRJ$(A$):'RIGHT JUSTIFICATION COMMAND 

110 PRINT"RIGHT JUSTIFIED = (";:PRINTJ$;:PRINT")" 

120 GOSUB1000 

130 J$ = &SLT$(A$):'LEFT TRUNCATION COMMAND 

140 PRINP'LEFT TRUNCATED = (";:PRINTJ$;:PRINT")" 

ISO GOSUB 1000 

160 J$ = &SRT$(A$);'RIGHT TRUNCATION COMMAND 

170 PRINT'RIGHT TRUNCATED = (";:PRINTJ$; :PRINT")" 

180 GOSUB 1000 

190 J$ = &SLS$(A$,4):' LEFT SHIFTING COMMAND 

200 PRINT"LEFT SHIFTED BY 4= (";:PRINTJ$;:PRINT")" 

210 GOSUB1000 

220 J$ = &SRS$(A$,6):' RIGHT SHIFTING COMMAND 

230 PRINT"RIGHT SHIFTED BY 6= (";:PRINTJ$;:PRINT")" 

240 GOTO240 

1000 A$ = " ABCD EF " 

1010 RETURN 

9999 END 

RUN 

A$ = ( ABCD EF ) 

LEFT ROTATE BY 6 = (D EF ABC) 

RIGHT ROTATE BY 6 = ( EF ABCD) 
LEFT JUSTIFIED = (ABCD EF ) 
RIGHT JUSTIFIED = ( ABCD EF) 
LEFT TRUNCATED = (ABCD EF ) 
RIGHT TRUNCATED = ( ABCD EF) 
LEFTSHIFTEDBY 4 = (BCD EF ) 
RIGHT SHIFTED BY 6 = ( ABCD) 



Listing 2: Program and run showing the packed-decimal 
mathematics function. The numbers must be saved into strings, 
then converted into packed decimal by the proper command. 
One may initialize precision up to 500 places; however, the 
more places you specify, the slower the operation will become. 
When the answer arrives, it is converted back to a string for 
printing or further normal mathematics functions. The precision 
of the exponent printed out in the answer is also initialized to 
either 10-" to 10" or I0" 3276S to 10 327 ". 

10 CLS:DEFINTC 

20 CLEAR2000 

30 N$ = 'T':X$ = "3994949" 

40 J = &BPRC(120,2):'SETS UP 120 DECIMAL PLACES PRECISION 

50 ' + OR -32767 EXPONENT RANGE 

60 N$ = &BCP$(N$):X$ = &BCP$(X$):'CONVERTS X$ + N$ PACKED 

DECIMAL 
70 A$ = &BDP$(N$,X$):' DIVIDES A$ BY X$ PACKED DECIMAL 
80 N$ = &BPC$(A$):'CONVERT ANSWER TO PRINT 
90 PRINT" 1/3994949= ";:PRINTN$:'PRINTS ANSWER 
99 END 

RUN 

1 A3994949 = 2.5031 6086638402642937369 1 629 1 04651 899 185696 
7385566 1 2362260444376 1 35965690675900993980 1 484324330548 
39999209001 16622264764D-00007 



98 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



wv 



.Threaded Interpretive 

Languages 




R. G. Loeliger 



Threaded languages (such as FORTH] are an exciting new class of languages. They are compact 
and fast, giving the speed of assembly language with the programming ease of BASIC, and com- 
bine features found in no other programming languages. An increasing number of people are 
using them, but few know much about how they work. Is a threaded language interpreted or 
compiled? How much memory overhead does it require? Just what is an "inner interpreter?" 
Threaded Interpretive Languages, by R. G. Loeliger, concentrates on the development of an 
interactive, extensible language with specific routines for the ZILOG Z80 microprocessor. With 
the core interpreter, assembler, and data type defining words covered in the text, it is possible to 
design and implement programs for almost any application imaginable. Since the language itself 
is highly segmented into very short routines, it is easy to design equivalent routines for different 
processors and produce an equivalent threaded interpretive language for other development sys- 
tems. If you are interested in learning how to write better FORTH programs or you want to design 
your own powerful, but low-cost, threaded language specific to your needs, this book is for you. 



Din i a 



This and other BYTE/McGraw-Hill 
books are available from BYTE 
Books or your local computer store. 

Please send 



ISBN 0-07-038360-X 
Price $18.95 



copies of Threaded Interpretive Languages 



Company 



Street 



City 



State/Province 



Code 



Call TOLL FREE: 800-258-5420 
or Mail To: 



Bill I'M 70MainSt 



Peterborough, NH 03458 



Check enclosed in the amount of $ 

_ Bill Visa G Bill Master Charge 

Card No 

Exp. Date 

Add 75<r per book to cover postage and handling. 
Please remit in U.S. funds or draw on a U.S. Bank. 



Text continued from page 96: 

The extra commands available handle functions that, if 
done as a routine in standard BASIC, would take up to 
fifty times longer. The commands provide capabilities for 
matrix and string manipulation, graphics, and data com- 
pression. 

There are twenty-three commands in the matrix cate- 
gory. Some of the many functions that they speed up are 
copying, scaling, solving simultaneous linear equations, 
matrix inversion, and operations on a matrix from con- 
stants or another matrix. 

The speed of these commands is far superior to conven- 
tional BASIC. For instance, if you want to invert a 10 by 
10 matrix, the command is J = &MINV(A,B,C), where A 
is the matrix to be inverted, B is the array where the in- 
verted matrix is to be stored, and C is the size of the 
matrix to be inverted (default is the dimension of A), J is 
the return argument. J is if a solution is found and —1 if 
not. The command A = &MINV(A,B,3) is certainly much 
faster to execute and requires less syntax than standard 
BASIC commands. For another example, suppose you 
want to multiply matrix A by matrix B. This is performed 
by the simple statement J = &MELM(A,B). All matrix 
commands are of similar format, execution time, and 
simplicity. 

There are fourteen string-compression routines, which 
are extremely useful for compressing data for increased 
storage efficiency. However, you must know the type of 
data with which you are dealing and exactly what you in- 
tend to do to the data in the program. You can compress 
or expand in 4-, 5-, 6-, or 7-bit formats. You can use this 



in random-file formats but not in sequential files (since 
some control characters may be in the data). You can also 
convert data to lowercase or uppercase and remove 
multiple characters. 

There are fourteen string-manipulation commands 
provided, and they handle left and right character shift- 
ing and rotating, justifying, and truncating. You can also 
invert a string, sort a string (multiple-key sort), delete a 
substring, pack string text, and more. (See listing 1, page 
98, for an example.) 

The graphic commands allow drawing and erasing 
lines between any two coordinate points. Four com- 
mands allow scrolling of the screen up, down, left, or 
right. There is no wraparound feature, so scrolling up 
and down will result in a loss of what was at the top or 
bottom of the screen. These commands can best be used 
to improve screen presentation of data, and fast execu- 
tion means little time is lost. 

Other available commands include the writing of 
matrix data onto tape and the transfer of string and 
variable arguments to a subroutine in the program and 
back again. There are decimal-to-hexadecimal conver- 
sion commands. 

Infinite Business 

Infinite Business is an add-on package giving twenty 
commands that, among other things, control a printer, 
provide multiple-precision mathematics, search string ar- 
rays for matching elements, and provide hash number 
generation. (The package needs Infinite BASIC before it 
will work.) 



ATTENTION ALPHA MICRO AND MPM USERS: WE HAVE THE MISSING LINK 

Micro Pathways introduces the ZSIO, a four channel RS-232 interface and Real Time Clock board. Applications include 
Multi-User data processing and high speed telecommunications. The ZSIO board is capable of handling asychronous and 
sychronous byte oriented protocals such as IBM BISYNC and sychronous bit oriented protocals such as HDLC and IBM 
SDLC. 

For Alpha Micro users it is an ideal high speed communicationsboard as well as a four channel RS-232 upgrade. MPM users 
can enjoy the convenience of having the Real Time Clock and four serial channels all on one board. 

The ZSIO can be totally interrupt driven with no additional hardware to process restart instructions or interrupt vectors. 
Additional features include programmable baud rates from 75 to 19.2 k, solder less modem direction jumper areas and daisy 
chain capabilities to any number of boards. The ZSIO board conforms to the IEE-696 (S-100) standard bus interface. Full 
documentation includes users manual, theory of operation, schematic and extensive application notes. 



ZSIO board complete with 
documentation, RS-232 cables and 
mounting hardware $599.00 

ZSIO with Alpha Micro interface 

drivers $899.00 

ZSIO manual (credited upon board 
purchase) $ 25.00 

Dealer inquiries welcome 

Micro Pathways 

21162 Lorain Road 

Fairview Park, Ohio 44126 

216-333-8864 




100 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 58 on inquiry card. 



SYNCHRO-SOUND 



The ORIGINAL Computer People 

who KNOW Computers 

and offer EVERYTHING you need 

in Small Computer Systems 



TERMINALS 

ADDS Regent 25 



T0 ^ JSSR 





SY STEM! 



LEARSIEGLER 

ADM3A 
ADM 31 
ADM 42 




' m P™ Printer 

Printing rectl0nal 



9 r °me mco 
Computer 

ONLY $5? 95 



Hveitine 
?,? Vi ^o 

& er& low* 




SOROC 
Technology 

IQ 120 

IQ 140 




HAZELTINE 

Executive 80 Series 

Model 20 Model 30 



PRINTERS 

QUME Sprint 

5/45 KSR 5/55 , 




COMPUTERS 

NORTHSTAR 

HORIZON II 
HORIZON II Quad 



CROMEMCO 

System 3 




DECwriter IV 

LA 34 



TELETYPE 

43 




MORE SPECIALS 



OKIDATA 

Microline 80 $570. 
Model SS1 for 
Atari 800 $695. 



Integral Data Systems 
Model 445 Printer $695.00 

Centronics 779-2 . . . .775.00 

Televideo Model 950 .. .1295. 

Industrial Micro Systems 
1 6 K static memory . .349.00 



MANY OF OUR PRICES ARE TOO LOW 
TO ADVERTISE. PLEASE CALL OR WRITE 



Livermore Accoustic 
Coupler $195.00 

Centronics 
MicroPrinter 349.00 

5"Scotch Diskette 
Box 



8" Scotch Diskette 
Box 



34.95 
39.95 



We carry a full line of Alpha-Micro Products. 

We have a full staff of Programmers and Computer 

Consultants to design, configure and deliver a Turnkey 

Computer System to meet your specific requirements. 



ENTERPRISES, INC 



COMPUTER PEOPLE 

193-25 Jamaica Ave., Jamaica. New York 11423 • TWX 710-582-5886 



PHONE ORDERS CALL: 
New York 212/468-7067 
Los Angeles 213/628-1808 

Chicago 312/641-3010 
Dallas 214/742-6090 




The single board 

microcomputer 

that's perfect 

for CP/ Net" 



Everything you need for a network slave is built in: 
Z-80 processor, 64K dynamic RAM, even the console 
serial port. The forthcoming expansion board will add 
additional ports, priority interrupt control, and IEEE 
S-100 bus master capability for the network master 
processor. And MuSYS delivers all the software sup- 
port you need to take advantage of CP/NET™ and the 
advanced MP/M™ operating system. For your multi- 
user system, it's the ideal way to add stations, share 
common resources (peripherals, programs, data bas- 
es), and increase total throughput, while maintain- 
ing hardware isolation for each user. 

Just $1,395 ea. Generous dealer and quantity dis- 
counts available. Call or write today for more details. 



CP Net and MP/M are trademarks of Digital Res 




Multi-user Microsystems 



1451 Irvine Blvd., Suite 11, Tustin, CA 92680 

(714) 730-5692. TWX: 910-595-1967 

CABLE: MUSYSTSTN 

Circle 59 on Inquiry card. 



I found the automatic page headings and pagination to 
be the most helpful feature in the printer category — just 
define the header or footer and run the program. This 
feature can be turned on or off and reset within the pro- 
gram. 

I have found that packed-decimal mathematics is very 
interesting to most people who have Infinite Business. 
With it, they can add, subtract, multiply, and divide with 
up to 500 significant places of precision. I would have 
liked to have seen some more mathematics functions here 
such as squares, square roots, logarithms, and other 
technical-mathematics functions. (See listing 2, page 98, 
for an example.) 

Conclusions 

• In checking over these packages, I saw two problems. 
In trying to assemble an Infinite BASIC module for use in 
low memory on tape, I set an upper limit of hexadecimal 
7FFF and the assembler bombed out. I assume this is a 
result of the assembler placing its code in the same 
memory that I had specified during the assembly process, 
thus clobbering the disk operating system. It is unfor- 
tunate that the assembler cannot make the object 
modules in high memory and save them on tape or disk. 
If this were so, the object modules could then be loaded 
into the memory locations the user specified. As it is, the 
assembler will save the object code to tape, but saving to 
disk requires typing in a cumbersome dump command. 
The assembler gives everything needed to type for this 
dump, but it would be much easier if the user did not 
have to intervene (and if the disk operating system clob- 
bering were eliminated). 

• The second problem is that the setting of memory size is 
difficult for those BASIC programmers who are not 
especially familiar with machine language. The Infinite 
BASIC documentation spends little time with examples of 
how to do this with user-created object modules. 

•The Infinite BASIC documentation is about as difficult 
to understand as the Radio Shack Level II manual. There 
are three manuals. Two are for Infinite BASIC — one 
being a general description with lots of examples, the 
other a definition of the command formats. The Infinite 
Business manual has both of these elements incorporated 
into one volume. All the information is there, but there 
are not enough examples to cover every case, so the result 
may be that the 100 available commands will be hard for 
the less experienced programmer to understand. As the 
command statements are fairly involved, frequent 
references to the manuals are necessary. 

• These packages would be of great help to the more 
skilled business, game, and general programmer who 
could best understand and make use of the available 
power. However, in comparing these to other similar 
packages, almost anyone would find enough of the 100 
commands useful to make it worth the price. ■ 

Give to the college 
of Your choice. 



OF 



Councillor Financial A.dloErlucalion inc 
BSQKiim Avenue New York ny i00'9 



A Public Service ol This Maqa/ine 
& The Advernsing Council 




The Perfect Fit 



The Micromodem II data communications system 
and the Apple II* computer. What better combination to 
maximize the capabilities of your personal computer! 

This popular direct connect modem can transmit 
data between an Apple II and another Apple II, a 
terminal, another microcomputer, minicomputer or 
even a large time-sharing computer anywhere in North 
America. The Micromodem II has unique automatic 
dialing and answer capabilities which further increases 
the communications possibilities between the Apple II 
and another computer or terminal. 

You can send and/or receive messages or data 
when you are out of your office, home or out of town. 
Your branch business locations can communicate with 
each other regarding inventory and other matters over 
the phone. Or you can communicate with friends 
across the country. And you can access information 
utilities like the SOURCE for various business and 
personal applications. 

The Micromodem II consists of two parts. One part 
includes the printed circuit board which holds the 
Micromodem II, ROM firmware and the serial interface. 
The board plugs directly into the Apple II providing all 
the functions of a serial interface card plus 
programmable auto dialing and auto answer 
capabilities. The on-board ROM firmware enables the 
Micromodem II to operate in any of three modes to 
perform different tasks-terminal mode, remote console 
and program control mode. 



The other part of the Micromodem II datacomm 
system is a Microcoupler which connects the 
Micromodem board and Apple II to a telephone line. 
The Microcoupler gets a dial tone, dials numbers, 
answers the phone and hangs up when a transmission 
is over. There are none of the losses or distortions 
associated with acoustic couplers. The Microcoupler is 
compatible with any North American standard 
telephone lines and is FCC-approved for direct 
connection in the U.S. It works with standard dial 
phone service or Touch-tone service. 

The Micromodem II is completely compatible with 
Bell 103-type modems. Full and half-duplex operating 
modes are available as well as speed selectable 
transmission rates of 1 1 and 300 bps. 

Why not increase your Apple ll's capabilities by 
outfitting it with the sophisticated Micromodem II data 
communications system? The Micromodem II is 
available at retail computer stores nationwide. For the 
store nearest you, call or write: 

Circle 60 on inquiry card. 



©Hayes 



Hayes Microcomputer Products Inc. 

5835 Peachtree Corners East, Norcross, Georgia 30092 (404) 449-8791 

TU Micromodem II is a trademark of Hayes Microcomputer Products, Inc. 

'Apple II is a registered trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 

The Micromodem II can also be used with the Bell & Howellcomputer. 





And one that costs you a buck. 



One: Buy a new TeleLink® I cartridge for your 
ATARI 400® or ATARI 800® computer and 
get one free hour of CompuServe Information 
Service time. 

Two: Visit a Radio Shack® computer center. Most 
are equipped to access the CompuServe 
Information Service now. Log in and see what you 
can get. The service is compatible with any 
TRS-80® including the new VIDEOTEX® unit. 



Three: Send $1.00 to us and we'll send you the 
current "menu" of services, including the 
sophisticated big mainframe power of MicroNET. 
Send $1.00, name and address to: CompuServe, 
Information Service Division, 5000 Arlington 
Centre Boulevard, Columbus, Ohio 43220. 



Radio Shack, TRS-80 and Videotex are trademarks of Tandy Corporation. 
ATARI 400 and ATARI 800 are trademarks of ATARI, Inc. 



All this is yours to command. 







Access to news and 
entertainment databases, 
computer games and art, 
regional newspapers, 
newsletters, programs, 
languages, storage (up to 
128k free!) and lots more is 
yours for 8V3 cents per 
minute (between the 
hours of 6 pm and 5 am 
weekdays and all day 
weekends), billed to 
your charge card. It's 



a local phone hook-up in more than 260 U.S. cities. 



CompuServe is 
working with 11 
major regional 
newspapers to 
bring you their 
electronic 
editions, as well 
as the Associated 
Press news and 
sports wires. 





Simple games and 
graphics for the 
beginner. And, when 
you're ready — try the 
really tough ones on 
MicroNET(see 
MicroNET service). 
You haven't lived 

until you discover a 
player from Los Angeles 

in your dungeon! 



CompuServe is continually adding new on-line 
information resources. 
So, order our current 
menu and watch for new 
features such as an 
electronic encyclo- 
pedia, travel infor- 
mation, food 
preparation and 
gardening tips, 
government pub- 
lication data — 
and much more! 





MicroQuote has his- 
torical and statistical 
data on almost every 
stock, bond or option 
you can buy. Corporate 
financial information, 
commodity prices 
and financial 
newsletters are 
also available. 



And, when you're ready for big-time computer action. 

You need a 

computer to 

use all the 

MicroNET 

services which 

put you in 

command of 

our big, fast 

mainframe 

computers. 

But even with 

the simplest 

terminal you can send electronic mail to any other user, 

use the CB simulator, and try to zap the enemy's 

spaceships in real — and very fast — time. Many 

networking multi-player games available. 



See for yourself 
what a 

state-of-the-art 
electronic 
information 
^ service can do. Get 
I a demonstration at 
a Radio Shack® 
computer center or 
send$1.00for 
a current 
menu 
today. 




Not 1985. 

NOW! 




CompuServe 

Information Service Division 
5000 Arlington Centre Blvd. 
Columbus, Ohio 43220 
(614) 457-8600 



Circle 61 on inquiry card. 



A Pascal Library Unit for 
the Micromodem II 



Thomas H Woteki 

814 D Street NE 

Washington DC 20002 

(MicroNet 70220,165) 



The Micromodem 

The Hayes Microcomputer Pro- 
ducts Micromodem II is a powerful 
combination of hardware and firm- 
ware that facilitates computer-to- 
computer communication. The on- 
board ROM (read-only memory) 
contains programs for originating 
and answering calls (including dialing 
the telephone) and an ACIA (asyn- 
chronous communications interface 
adapter) device for parallel-to-serial 
conversion. In addition, the accom- 
panying owner's manual provides a 
wealth of information on how to 
custom program the modem for such 
applications as repertoire dialing, 
modifying hardware defaults, and 
dumb terminal communications. All 
of the examples given are in BASIC. 

At the time I purchased a Micro- 
modem for my Apple II computer, 
Pascal software for driving it was not 
available. In fact, certain parts of the 
modem's firmware refer to locations 
and routines used by the old Apple 
monitor; these routines are accessible 
from BASIC but don't exist under 
Pascal. Having forsworn BASIC and 
being faced with the modem as my 
only non-Pascal application, I was 
determined to develop a suitable 
library of Pascal programs. With a 
little help from the friendly folks at 
Hayes Microcomputer Products (who 
are about to release their own Pascal 



About the Author: Thomas H Woteki has 
a PhD in statistics and is currently developing 
an interactive statistics package for the Apple 
II. His interests include applications program- 
ming in Pascal and systems development for 
the Apple II. 



software), and through close study of 
the manual, I was able to do just that. 

The Library Unit 

The routines are housed in an in- 
trinsic unit dubbed "micromodem" 
(see listing 1). Library units are a 
UCSD addition to Pascal; commonly 
used routines can be stored in a 
library unit that can be called by any 
Pascal program. Intrinsic units have 
the advantage that the object code of 
the unit is never entered into the code 
file of the host program, thereby 
maximizing disk storage space. A 
slight disadvantage is that the library 
containing the unit must be on-line 
(available for access) whenever the 
host program is executed. I have the 
unit stored in my system library on 
the boot disk. 

UCSD Pascal units consist of two 
major syntactical components: an 
"interface" block and an "implemen- 
tation" block. The interface block 
contains the declarations for all the 
structures available to the calling pro- 
gram, just as if they were declared in 
the global-data segment of that pro- 
gram. The implementation portion 
contains declarations used by the unit 
but not available to the host, as well 
as definitions of all the procedures 
declared in the interface. All "exter- 
nal" procedures (the independently 
assembled machine-language pro- 
grams used by the unit) must be 
declared at this point and linked in 
later. 

Our interface block begins with the 
declaration of several constants 
which correspond to the addresses of 
certain locations in the modem's 
ROM and the Apple's memory. The 



constants are appropriate to having 
the modem card in slot 2 on the Ap- 
ple's motherboard. This is the set-up 
expected by the Apple's low-level I/O 
(input/output) drivers, the BASIC 
I/O Subsystem, or BIOS. If you wish 
to install the card in another slot you 
will have to modify the addresses and 
the BIOS accordingly. 

The values "acia" and "modem" are 
the addresses of the ACIA and the 
modem control and status words, 
respectively. Both of these registers 
(actually pairs of registers) have the 
property that what is written to them 
(the control word) is not what may be 
read from them (the status word). 
Since it is important to know what 
was last written as the modem control 
word, a copy of this data is stored in 
location "modemcopy" in a portion 
of the Apple's memory. 

The value "keybde" is the address 
of the Apple's keyboard, and 
"datain" is the address where 
characters received by the modem 
can be found. The value for "outa" is 
the address of a routine in the mo- 
dem's firmware which transmits char- 
acters; this routine expects to find the 
characters in "dataout". Fortunately, 
the output routine does not reference 
any "old" monitor locations. 

The constants "resetflag" and 
"selftest" correspond to two special 
bits in the modem control word. Set- 
ting bit 3 of the word puts the modem 
into the self-test mode, wherein the 
modem communicates with itself. 
Setting bit 4 prevents the ROM from 
automatically applying default set- 
tings to the ACIA. 

The next two sets of declarations 
establish two variables, "br" and 



106 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 62 on inquiry card. 



Order out of Chaos 



The International 
Microcomputer 
Software 
Directory 

At last! Your Software needs 

answered by One single 

comprehensive source. 
Essential for everyone 
concerned with microcomputers 



The Directory 

The International Microcomputer Software Directory has 
three sections: 

1 Lists software according to specific subjects organised 
within seven major categories, Commerce, Education, Home, 
Industry, Professions, Sciences, Systems. Within the categories 
programs are listed with: • Name • A unique ISPN (inter- 
national standard program number) • A short description 

• Systems with which it is compatible (machine and operating 
system) • Software house • Price. 

2 Lists in ISPN order (thus in Software House order) the 
programs with a full description of: • Features • Special 
requirements • Method of distribution. 

3 Lists by machine (make and model), then within general 
categories and subjects the names and ISPNs of compatible 
programs. 

Appendices include details of compatibility between 
machines and operating systems, plus a glossary of computer 
terms. Also included is a special consumers' guide to buying 
software. 




Comprehensive 

Every effort has been made to obtain full details from every 
reliable supplier of microcomputer software. 
International 

With offices in Britain, America, and Hong Kong, we are well 
placed to keep in touch with developments in these major 
centres. We also employ a team of translators to obtain up-to- 
date information from software centres throughout the world. 
Independent 

The publishers have no affiliation with any of the software 
houses whose programs are listed in the directory. 
Easily-accessed 

The clear cross-referencing system outlined above enables 
the reader to select programs by specific applications, 
operating systems, and price. 
Up-to-date 

Information is stored immediately it becomes available in a 
large computer database which generates fully indexed and 
cross-referenced camera ready copy. Thus we are able to 
include software made available immediately prior to 
publication. 



INTERNATmiML 

SOFTWARE 



Uggri^ mm 




po fgfi* [p/ ^ mm 
3>l.z.oo piusp&psi.os 



Also Available 

The International Microcomputer 
Software Directory Supplements 

Available for individual machines or operating 
systems the Supplements contain listings of soft- 
ware compatible only with particular machines 
or operating systems. Supplements are 
organised as in the first two sections of the 
Directory section above. 



_ copies of the International Microcomputer Software Directory, 



Please send me 

and/or copies of Software Directory Supplements, state which 



Name (Block letters Please) 
Address 



OR phone yourorderthrough now 
(24 hr. service) giving yourcreditcard 
number, and oddress (800) 525 5992 

Imprint Software 

420 South Howes St. 

Fort Collins. CO 80521 (303) 493 2710 



Circle 63 on inquiry card. 



Z8000 



The System X8000 MICRO-MINI ,M based on 
the 16-bit Zilog Z8000 processor is available 
for Immediate delivery. 

FEATURES (partial list) 

• Zilog Z8000 CPU 

• Intel Multibus compatible 

• Unique memory management system 
allows up to 16 megabytes of memory 

• Optional 951 1 arithmetic processor 

• 8-level vectored + non-maskable interrupts 

• Two programable timers 

• On-board monitor ROM option 

• Full "Multimaster" capabilities allow multiple 
processors and/or DMA devices on the 
same bus 

• Flexible and/or hard disk controller 

• Powerful disk-based operating system 

• Memory boards: 16K, 32K, 48K, 64K, 96K, 
128K 

• 1 5-slot backplane 

• Heavy-duty switching power supply 

• Industrial quality throughout 

Prices start from $998. System discounts. 
Call for prices on complete custom systems. 



SYSTEM X9020 

(CPU Manual $19.95} 




*4195 



W The SUPER-MICRO'" 
READY TO RUN 



SYSTEM FEATURES (partial lilt) 
Pascal MICROENGINE"X9000 

■ 16 bil P-code CPU 

• 64KbytesRAM/Full DMA 

• Floppydisk controller (SSor DS) 

■ Floating poinl hardware (IEEE standard) 

• Syslem solt.ware with enhancements 

■ 2 serial, 2 parallel ports 

■ Pascal compiler, texleditor s. lile manager, 

CPU & memory diagnostics, symbolic Pascal debugger. 



. utililie 



andn 



Floppy Dlih Drives (2) 

• 1M combined memory 

• Double density, single sided 
■ Standard 8" diskettes 

• 6 ms track to track 




$900* 

With CPU 



MODEL X-920 

DISPLAY/EDIT TERMINAL 

•LIMITED TIMF cash price. 10%DOWN guarantees 

priority. Master Charge & VISA cards accepted. 
System discounts 

ADM3A+ plus RG graphics (51 2x256) ...$1995 

NEC Spinwriter 5510 or5530w/trac 2895 

Anadex D P-9500 printer (60dpi) 1 595 

X-912 CRT (less 18 function keys) 799 

P-E550 CRT ("Bantam") 740 

Siemens standard 8" drive (ss/sd-dd) .... 399 

t—^ 312 684-3183 

y«f™COMPUTEX 

jijlV \ Microcomputer Syst«mi % 

' ^\ V 5710 Dreiel. Chicago, It. 60637 



"md", that may assume the values 
"low" (corresponding to 110 bps [bits 
per second]) and "high" (300 bps), 
and "answer" and "originate" respec- 
tively. Following this is a set of 
declarations for boolean-valued func- 
tions that report on various aspects of 
ACIA and modem status. The inte- 
ger-valued functions "aciastatus" and 
"modemstatus" return a complete 
status report. The interface block 
concludes with a series of procedure 
declarations for setting the ACIA and 
modem control words and for per- 
forming such chores as dialing the 
phone, waiting for the other system 
to turn on its carrier, and sending and 
receiving characters. Several of these 
routines call external procedures 
declared in the implementation block. 
The implementation block begins 
with a set of declarations that 
facilitate direct-money accessing 
from Pascal. The declarations 



establish the type "freeunion", a 
variant record, and a variable 
("memory") of that type. The vari- 
able has two names (it is a free union; 
see Peter Grogono's Programming in 
Pascal, listed in the references) and 
will be interpreted differently depend- 
ing on the name used. When referred 
to as "memory .addrs" it will be 
treated as an integer, but when re- 
ferred to as "memory .pntr" it will be 
treated as a pointer to an array of the 
type "word". Thus, both the location 
pointed to and its contents can be 
manipulated from Pascal as indicated 
in the following fragment: 



VAR x:0..255; (x takes 
values from to 255) 



integer 



memory .addrs: = acia; (point to 

location acia) 

x: =memory.pntr[0]; (read the 

Text continued on page 124 



Listing 1: Library unit "micromodem" for Apple Pascal system. These routines can be 
called for use by any Pascal program, but they are intended to drive the Hayes 
Microcomputer Products Micromodem II. 

c*$lprinter:*) 

u$s+*)(* swapping requirci: for units *) 

UNIT micromodecir INTRINSIC CODE 23 DATA 245 

INTERFACE 

CONST d3t3in= -16217) C JC0A7 3 
3ci3= -16218.' { SC0A6 } 
B0dem= -1621?; £ $C0A5 3 
Keabde= -16384; C JC000 3 
outs* 

d3t,30ut= 1912J 
nodeiiiCOpy=1658; 



-15870)' C $C202 
{ $0778 
C I067A 



TYPE 



resetfl33= 9; 
selftest= 16) 

b3udr3te=( lowfhi^h )i 

oode= ( 3nswer )0ri3in3te )J 



vAR ad: mode? 

br Jb3udr3te; 

FUNCTION rin^inSIBOOLEAN) 

FUNCTION csrrier: BOOLEAN) 

FUNCTION rcvrfullIBOOLEANJ 

FUNCTION trsnseffiptyrBOOLEAN) 

FUNCTION 3Ci3error:B00LEAN) 

FUNCTION 3Ci3ststus:iNTEGER) 

FUNCTION modemststus: INTEGER) 

PROCEDURE init3ci3( word! INTEGER)) 
PROCEDURE en3bletr3nsmit) 
PROCEDURE setmode(md:node)br:b3udr3te)) 
PROCEDURE picKuP) 

Listing 1 continued on page 110 



108 Febmary 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 64 on inquiry card. 



TOLL FREE 1-800-528-1418 





ZENITH-HEATH Z-89 
ALL-IN-ONE COMPUTER 

FREE HDOS and 48K RAM in- 
cluded! Built-in minifloppy 
drive, smart terminal with 25 x 
80 display! 

CALL FOR PRICE! 




" 



LEXICON LX-11 

Priced lower than Novation, 
lower than Livermore! New Bell 
103A compatible, RS-232 com- 
patible modem has special 
battery-powered option! 

CALL FOR PRICE! 




ATARI 800 SYSTEM 

MicroWorld now offers com- 
plete systems based around 
the Atari 800 Personal compu- 
ter.. . choose from a selection 



of printers, disk drives, and 
Atari's comprehensive soft- 
ware library! Program re- 
corder, modem, joysticks, and 

more! CALL FOR PRICE! 



OKI DATA 

MICROLINE 80 

MicroWorld is now featuring the Okidata Microline 
80 printer, an ideal choice for small micro-system 
applications— business systems, personal systems, 
CRT hardcopy, manufacturing work stations, tele- 
communications applications, and distributed 
processing applications! The reliable M-80 is a 
compact printer capable of printing 80 characters 
per second in a 9 x 7 dot matrix format. In addition 
to normal upper and lowercase printing, the M-80 
prints both double width characters (80 columns 
per line) and condensed characters, (1 32 columns 
per line) at six or eight lines per inch. Font selection, 
character spacing and line spacing are all under 
program control. Okidata warrants the M-80 print 
head for 200,000,000 characters or one year's nor- 
mal operation! *„._-.-. 

$569.00 



miCRQ 
SHOPPER 




MICROSHOPPER 

New edition of the best-selling 
computer consumer guide! In- 
cludes more than 100 photos, 
dozens of product reviews . . . 
feature articles, glossary, and 

more! $10.00 post paid 




DIABLO 630 RO 

Letter-quality, up to 40 cps 
printer offers complete inter- 
changeability between metal 
and plastic print wheels! 
Universal interface, baud 
rates to 9600, optional forms 
tractor. $ 2 ,499.00 



MICROWORLD SPECIALS 



Atari 400 $460.00 

Atari 825 $745.00 

Atari 820 $509.97 

Atari 830 $149.33 

Atari 850 $164.00 

BASF Diskettes $ 4.25 

Centronics 730 Parallel . $599.00 
DEC LA-120 KSR . . . Call For Price 

Hazeltine 1500 $999.00 

Hazeltine 1421 $810.00 

ADM 3A+ $860.00 



Visicalc for Atari . Call For Price 
Visicalc lor Apple . Call For Price 
Perkin Elmer Bantam CRT $499.00 

SoroclQ 120 $750.00 

Soroc IQ 140 Call For Price 

Tl 810 BASIC $1,643.00 

Tl 820 RO BASIC . . . Call For Price 
Tl 810 With FLC and CP $1,816.00 

Zenith Z-89 $2,399.00 

Televideo 912B ... Call For Price 
Televideo 912C . . . Call For Price 



Prices are subject to change and offers subject to withdrawal without notice. 

MOQWOnD 

1425 W. 1 2th Place, Tempe, AZ 85281 
Master Card and Visa orders welcomed! 



Circle 65 on inquiry card. 







64K Horizon II $26691 

Don't be fooled byourlow prices. These aren'tjustany I 
64K Horizon It's. They're Thoroughly rested, enhanced, 
and backed by fasrworraniy service. Also, we discount I 
the total system from game disks to hard disks. Call for I 
our price on your system. 

Horizon II 64K Quod $3069 I 

Horizon II 32K DD $2339 

Horizon II 32K Quad $2689 | 

PRINTERS 

Okidata 

Microline 80 

y 5519 

Epson MX-60 

Centronics 737 $769 

C-lroh 1 540 ( 1 50 cps./1 32 col.) .... $899 | 

Paper Tiger 460G $11491 

Anadex 9500. 9501 $1299 

TI-81 Dasic $1489 

NEC 5510 $2589 j 

COMPUTERS 





Atari 800 $747 

Zenith (Heath) Z-89 48K $2149 j 

Industrial Micro 5000 DD $2499 

Altos ACS-8000-5 $4995 

Onyx C 8000 2 (4-user) $1 2995 | 



TERMINALS 

I P.E. Bantam (while they lost) $599 

SoroclQ 120 $729 

Zenith Z-19 $769 

Televideo 920C $769 i 

| Televideo 950C $989 | 

HOW TO ORDER 



Mail Older Only 
I 2% cash discount incl. Prices subject to change. Product 
I subject to avail. Az. residents add 5%. F.O.B. Scottsdale. 
1 0-20% restocking fee for returned merchandise. 
I Warranties included on all products. We Export. 



Scottsdale 
Systems 

6730 E. McDowell Rood #100 
t Scottsdale. Az. SS257 

™ Open 6 ID 6 PM - M-Sot. 

(602)941-5856 



Listing 1 continued: 



PROCEDURE dial( number !STRING)J 

PROCEDURE waitforcarrier? 

PROCEDURE hangup.* 

PROCEDURE seU.odem< word: INTEGER). 

PROCEDURE sendchsr? 

PROCEDURE getchsKUAR ch'CHAR)! 

IMPLEMENTATION 

TYPE uord=PACKED ARRAYC0..13 OF 0..255J 

freeunion=RECORD CASE BOOLEAN OF 
TRUEK addr s "INTEGER). 

FALSE'Cvslue'tword)! 

end; 

VAR »emory*freeunion J 

FUNCTION ringing.* 

C Determine whether the phone is rinsing } 
BEGIN 

Beisor y . addr s ! =M0DEM J 

ringing !=meisory.v3luet[0K128» 

end; 

FUNCTION carrier; 

( Test for presence of carrier } 
BEGIN 

memory .addr s!=acia; 

carrier!=memory .valuetCO] MOD 8'Ai 

end; 

FUNCTION rcvrfuli; 

C ChecK if ACIA receiver register is full } 

BEGIN 
memory. sddr s * = 3 c i s ! 
rcvrfull*=ODD( memory. vsluetCO]); 

end; 

FUNCTION transempta; 

C ChecK if ACIA transmitter register is empty 3 
BEGIN 

memory .3ddrs!=3cia; 

tr3nsempty!=0DD( memory. vslueKOJ DIV 2)J 

end; 

FUNCTION sciserror? 

C ChecK for ACIA error } 
BEGIN 

memory .sddr s !=3ci3j 

sciserror !=isemory . valuet[0]>3i 

end; 

FUNCTION aciastatus; 

C Determine ACIA status } 
BEGIN 
Bemory.addrs!=3cia; 
aciastatus! =memory .valuetCOIi 

end; 

FUNCTION modemstatus! 

C Determine last value written to models 3 
BEGIN 

semory .addrs!=modemcopy; 

Bodemstatus!=memory.valuet[03; 

end; 

Listing 1 continued on page 112 



110 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 66 on inquiry card. 



from 



•Dfaruiici! 



♦ ♦ ♦ 




DISCOS 



USER'S e 



r 



illU 



DISCOVERY n ._ • " V fi[ 



MULTIPROCESSOR 



giJarnifo 



o/sco 



"<e*y 




iftulti oou 



*,*«««•«•'""•'■ 





THE World Class Multiprocessor 






* From Guangzhou, China to Norwich. England. From Banphai. 
Thailand to Pasadena. California. A proven record of performance 
and reliability in installations throughout the World makes the 
DISCOVERY MULTIPROCESSOR the international choice in 
multiuser microcomputer systems. 

WORLD CLASS SOFTWARE WORLD CLASS HARDWARE 



Our Distributed Processing Oper- 
ating System, dpos/2 ", resides in 
the Service Processor, establishing a 
CP/Mt environment for each user 
and managing access to the shared 
system resources. Multiuser facilities 
are provided for print spooling, for 
interprocessor communication and 
forprivate, public and shared-update 
files. Several processors can be em- 
ployed concurrently by a single user 
via the enhanced batch submit facil- 
ities. And with DISCOVERY all 
CP/M compatible programs will 
execute without modification, thus 
protecting your software investment. 



The ACE 64K Distributed Process- 
ing single board Computer, the 
dpc- 180 " gives the DISCOVERY 
MULTIPROCESSOR its unique 
architecture. One DPC is dedicated 
to each user providing exclusive use 
of the onboard Z-80, 64K ram and 
serial I/O. Shared storage is pro- 
vided by an expanded DPC used as 
the Service Processor. Additional 
users can be added at any time by 
simply inserting additional DPC's 
into the standard S-100 bus — up to 
16 in a single chassis! 

"f CP/M is a registered TM of Digital Research. Inc. 



Whatever your requirements, Whatever your language. No matter 
how you say it — DISCOVERY is THE World Class Multiprocessor. 







S e< 



J 




The ACE DISCOVERY MULTIPROCESSOR dedi- 
cates a complete. 64K Z-80 Distributed Processing single 
board Computer, the dpc-180'" to each user. An 
expanded DPC coordinates all of the system activities. 



Multiuser mainframes with 192K ram start at 
under $6000. The 64K dpc-180" is priced at 
$1395. Immediate delivery. A complete line of 
standard peripherals including a 26Mbyte hard 
disk subsystem can be supplied on request. 
Dealer and OEM inquiries are invited. 



Action Computer Enterprise, Inc. 



55 West Del Mar Boulevard, Pasadena, California 91105 USA • Cable ACEPAS Pasadena • (213) 793-2440 



NO FRILLS! 

NO GIMMICKS! 

JUST GREAT 

DISCOUNTS 

MAIL ORDER ONLY 



ATARI 800 

Personal Computer 

System $79900 

NORTHSTAR 

Horizon II 32K 234900 

Horizon II Quad 279900 

Horizon II 64K 299900 

Horizon Quad 64K 339900 

TELEVIDE0 

912 74900 

920 79900 

HAZELTINE 

1420 79500 

1500 84900 

1510 104900 

1520 122900 

0KIDATA 

Microline80 55900 

S0R0C Technology 

IQ 120 69900 

iq 140 99900 

CR0MEMC0 

System 3 569500 

Z2H 799500 

TELETYPE 

43 94900 

Acoustic Coupler 17900 

DECwriter IV 

LA34 97900 

TEXAS INSTRUMENT 

810 Multi Copy 
Impact Printer 149900 



We'll meetor beat any advertised prices! 



Most ilems in slock lor immediate delivery. 
Factory sealed canons Full manulacturer's guarantee. 

DATA DISCOUNT CENTER 

135-53 Northern Blvd.. Flushing, NY. 11354 

Visa- Master Charge- N.Y S residents add SalesTax 

Shipping F.O.FJ. N Y. 

Phone Orders Call 212-465-6609 



Listing 1 continued: 



PROCEDURE initacia; 
C Unitialize ACIA 3 
UAR dummy? INTEGER? 
BEGIN 

senior y . addr s ?=bc i 3 i 

■e(6ory.v3luetC0]!=3f 

ttemory.v3luet[0j;=word; 

REPEAT dummy !=0 UNTIL NOT carrier 5 

end; 

PROCEDURE newmodemv3lue(newbits? INTEGER)? 

external; 

C Logical or the value last written to 
location modem (stored in modemcopy) 
with the argument? store the result 
in modemcopy and write it to models » 3 

PROCEDURE enabletransmit; 

C Turn on the modem transmitter 3 
BEGIN 
newmodemvalue(2 )i 

end; 

PROCEDURE setmodeJ 

C Set the mode and baud rate 3 
BEGIN 
newmodemvalue( 4*ord( md )+ord( br ) )i 

end; 

PROCEDURE picKu^; 

C PicK up the phone? wait for dial tone } 

UAR dummy?wait?INTEGER; 

BEGIN 

newmodemvalue( 128 )r 

C wait for dial tone3 

FOR waitt=0 TO 3000 DO dummy:=0i 

end; 

PROCEDURE dialit( number! STRING); EXTERNAL? 

C Dial the indicated numberi display the dibits 
as they are dialed 3 

PROCEDURE dial! 

C Dial the indicated number 3 
BEGIN 

URITE( 'Dialing...' )! 

dialit( number )i 

writeln? 

end; 

PROCEDURE waitforcarrierJ 

C Wait for carrier after dialing 3 
VAR datajwaitJINTEGER; 
BEGIN 
wait:=0> 

WHILE NOT csrrier AND (waiUlOOOO) DO 
BEGIN 

wait!=wait+i; 
memory. 3ddrs!=datain; 
dat3!=memory.v3luetC0]; 

end; 
end; 

PROCEDURE setmodemJ 

C Urite 3 new vslue to the modem 
control word 3 



112 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Listing 1 continued on page 114 
Circle 68 on Inquiry card. * 



SayAhh... 




Our New graf ixPLUS™ 80-column printer 
opens wide for easy servicing. 



Introducing the newest members of our 
grafixPLUS™ family— the DP-9000 Series 80/132 
column printers— built on the same tradition of 
quality printout, solid design and low cost of 
ownership established by our 132/220 column 
DP-9500 Series. 

A Case for Serviceability 

Not that is comes up often, but want to get inside? 
Simple. Just remove a few screws and the clam- 
shell case swings open exposing all major compo- 
nents. This easy access plus built-in self-test and 
minimum component count yields an MTTR of one- 
half hour. The 9-wire print head replacement's even 
simpler . . . two screws and it's out. Without 
opening the case. And without a service call. 

Performance Plus 

The DP-9000 Series prints the full ASCII 96 charac- 
ter set, including descenders and underlining, bi- 
directionally, at up to 200 CPS. Number of columns 
can go up to 80 or 132, depending on character 
density— switch or data source selectable from 10 
to 16.7 characters per inch. And all characters can 
be printed double width. The print head produces . 
razor-sharp characters and high-density graphics 
with dot resolutions of 72X75 dots/inch under 
direct data source control. 

Interface Flexibility 

The three ASCII compatible interfaces (parallel, 
RS-232-C and current loop) are standard, so con- 
necting your computer is usually a matter of plug- 



it-in and print. Also standard are: a sophisticated 
communications interface for printer control and 
full point-to-point communications, DEC PROTO- 
COL, and a 700 character FIFO buffer. An addi- 
tional 2K buffer is optional. 
When you're ready for a printer (or several 
thousand), look into the grafixPLUS DP-9000 Series 
from Anadex— you'll find an open and shut case 
for quality. Contact us today for details, discounts 
and demonstrations. 



nnadex 

k ...the plus in printers 






...close please 



SALES OFFICES: San Jose, CA (408) 247-3933 

Fullerton, CA (714) 871-0501 •Wakefield, MA (617)245-9160 • Austin, TX (512) 32V -„ 

ANADEX, INC. • 9825 DeSoto Avenue • Chatsworth, California 91311 U.S.A. • Telephone; (213) 998 

ANADEX, LTD. • Dorna House, Guildford Road • West End, Woking, Surrey GU24 9PW, England • Tel: Chobham(09905) 6333 • Telex: 858762 ANADEX < 



CROSS-COMPILE 

FORTH ! 



Nautilus Systems' Forth Cross-compiler is now in use 
by individuals, universities, and major companies 
around the world. 

OSES: 

• To produce a modified or tailored version of Forth 
on a host computer. 

• To produce Forth systems for computers that have 
none. 

• To produce applications that use the minimum 
required nucleus code. 

• To do all the above in a RDM/RAM environment. 

FEATURES: 



Written entirely in high level fig-Forth. 

Automatic forward reference to any word or label. 

Cross-compiles to any location in the host for any 

base address in the target. 

Cross-canpiles to any screen in the host for any 

base address in the target. 

Cross-canpiles vocabularies. 

Can produce headerless code. 

Can produce ramble code. 

Load map that shows address, type of symbol and 

name. The map appears in readable column format, and 

page width and length are selectable. 

A comprehensive list of undefined symbols is 

produced showing undefined CFAs, DOES? pointers, 

labels and words on a vocabulary-by-vocabulary 

basis. 



MACHINE READABLE VERSIONS FOR THE FOLLOWING SYSTEMS: 



TRS-80 
NORTHSTAR 



APPLE 
CP/M 



H-89 
LSI-11 



Each includes an executable version of fig-FORTH model 
1.0, Cross-canpiler, cross-canpilable source, 
utilities, and documentation. 
(This program is not intended for newcaners to FORTH) 

Price $150.00 (Includes shipping). Calif, residents 
please add sales tax. 



NAUTILUS SYSTEMS 

P.O. BOX 1098 SANTA CRUZ, CA. 95061 

FOR THE SERIOUS 
FORTH USER 

TRS-80 is a trademark of Radio Shack, a division of Tandy Corp. 

APPLE is a trademark of Apple Computers Inc. 

CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research. 

LSI- 11 is a trademark of Digital Equiptment Corp. 

COPYRIGHT ° 1981 NAUTILUS SYSTEMS 

HOST — TARGET 



off the modem 3 



Listing 1 continued: 

BEGIN 
•emor y . addr 5 ! =modemcop y > 
»enora.v3luetC0!It=0; 
newniodemvalue( word )> 

end; 

PROCEDURE hangup; 

C Hang up the phone? turn 
BEGIN 
seUiodent )J 

end; 



PROCEDURE sndchar J EXTERNAL; 

C Get a character from the Keaboard> 
transfer it to the modem output lo- 
cation dataout» and transmit the 
character via the modem routine 
located at ouLs } 
PROCEDURE sendcharJ 
BEGIN 
sndchar; 

end; 

FUNCTION StchartCHARJEXTERNAL; 

C Fetch the character stored in the 
inodea input location datain and 
send it to the screen. Pass the 
character as a function result. 3 
PROCEDURE Setchar; 
BEGIN 
ch! = 3tchar J 

end; 

BEGIN 
setitiodem( resetflaS ); 
END. 



Listing 2: The assembly-language programs called in the imple- 
mentation block of listing 1. These low-level utility routines are 
stored as part of a file called NAT1VECODE in a library unit, 
and may be accessed from any Pascal program. 



I I 'I I "l I V i I i i I '( I 1 1 I 1 i I I 

these routines are stored in the 
system library! 

f'0ke( value, addrs: integer)! 

f'eek( addrsi integer )t integer? 

call(addrs: integer)! 

dialit(numeer:string); 

neumodehvaluef uordt integer ) ; 

sndchar; 

gtchar; 



THOMAS H.U0TEKI 
LAST UPDATE HAY 1980 



.MACRO pop 
pla 

3TA %1 

PLA 

STA £111 



Listing 2 continued on page 116 



Hi February 1981 © BYTE Publications Ire 



Circle 69 on inquiry card. 




Circle 70 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 115 



TOLL FREE OUTSIDE CAL 1(800) 421-0347 



ocommodore 

Call for latest price on: 



8000 

iness computer 
CBM 2001 
3usiness computer 
CBM 2001 
PET 

CBM 2022 
Printer 
CBM 2023 
Printer 
CBM2040 
Dual Drive 
Floppy Disk 
CBM 8050 
Dual Drive 
Floppy Disk 




apple II & 
II plus 



Here is THE computer from NEC. 
Centronics and RS232 interfaces are 
standard. Up to 64 K (RAM). SEND FOR 
PRICE AND INFO., OR CALL TOLL FREE 



16K-Call 
32K-Call 
48K-Call 
toll Iree 



monitors 



9" Black and white. Only $185. 

Also available In Sanyo 

12" Black and white 
15" Black and white. 



TRS-80 



All TRS-80 Compatible Hardware 
and Software. Call us and tell uswhal 
you need! y\^ ao is a lr;»Uniark til" Tiimlv (irfi 

print wheels and thimbles 

Huge selection for Qume, Diablo, 
NEC. Plastic or metal. 
Call 1-800-421-0347. 



ill ATARI 825 
yiK Printer..$799 



apple cards 



m> 



Hi-Speed Serial Interface 
Communications Interface 
Parallel Prtnter Interface 
Centronics Printer Interface 
Hobby/Prototype 
Integer Basic Firmware 
Applesoft Firmware 



Call 
Call 
Call 
Call 
Call 
Call 




NEC 




Letter quality high speed printer, bi- 
directional, high resolution plot- 
ting, graphics. 

RO with Tractor Feed $2865. 
KSR with Tractor Feed $2995. 

Paper Tiger (1P440) $949. 
With Graphics 
Anadex DP9500 $1449 
DP8000 $849. 
Epson MX 80 $645. 




CALL FOR 
EE CATALOG 



Everything that 400 has plus Basic 
Language Cartridge. 16K memory (ex- 
pandable to 4BK) Only $798. 

4^ Bonus 8K Memory Module good till 

t" 12/31/80. 

Atari Program Recorder. Only $68.95 

Atari Expansion Memory 8K $89.95 
16K $159. 

% apple II 
inventory control system 

The first truly professional system 
that can tackle up to 8,100 items, 
transaction register/audit trail, in- 
ventory status report, re-order 
report, keeps track of purchase 
orders automatically, will handle 
multiple departments or divisions, 
fast data retrieval. Minimum hard- 
ware requirements: Apple II Plus 
with 48K. one disk drive and 80 
column printer. Available also for 
the new DOS 3.3. 

j[ysan diskettes 

8" (Box of 10) 

3740/1 sgl sibe/sgl density 
$4.50 on. 
3740/1D sgl side/dbl den 

$6.65 •■ 
5" (Box ol 5) 
104/1 soft sector. 
107/1 10 sectors, 
105/1 16sectors $4.50 M. 




The HP-85 is a powerful 
BASIC language computer 
alete with keyboard, 
CRT display, printer, and 
tape drive -all in one com- 
pact unit. 



I CalH 

Prices subject to change without 
notice. Please allow ample time tor 
checks t o clear. Please add 2% for 
shipping and handling. California 
residents please add 6% sales tax. 
Sorry, no COD. 



£& 




m 



Micromodem 100 Ca 
Micromodem II OnlyS325 

In California Call (213) 371-1660 

/MICRO 

BUSINESS WORLD 

15818 Hawthorne Blvd., 
Lawndale. CA 90260 



Immediate response to your orders 



U.S. and International Dealer] 
uiries Invited. 



Listing 2 continued: 

.ENDM 

•MACRO PUSH 

LDA n+i 

FHA 

LDA XI 
PHA 
.ENDM 

.GLOBAL EQUATES 

PASCAL .EQU 00 

PASCALHI .EQU 01 

BI0SIN ' .EQU 0COS3 

PICSOUT .EQU 0C08B 

CONCHECK .EQU 0D681 

VIIiQUT .EQU 0D7E7 



.PR0C POKE. 2 i2 PARAMETER WORDS 

? 

5 PROCEDURE'. VALUE. ADDRS : INTEGER) 

i effect: 

V 

i VALUE IS STORED AT ADDRS 



ADDRS .EQU 02 

ADDRSHI .EQU 03 

FOP PASCAL 

LDY *00 

POP ADDRS 



."INITIALIZE Y-REG 

.SAVE ADDRESS 
,'ARGUEMENT 



PL A ,'LSB OF VALUE 

STA 8ADDRS.Y ,'STORE VALUE AT 

.ADDRS 
F1A ."DISCARD MSB VALUE 



PUSH PASCAL 
RTS 



,'BACK TO PASCAL 



.FUNC PEEK.l ,'1 PARAMETER WORD 

FUNCTION PEEK( ADDRS I INTEGER ) ! INTEGER 
5 

; effect: 

5 

5 THE CONTENTS OF ADDRS ARE 

i RETURNED BY PEEK 



ADDRS 


.EQU 02 


ADDRSHI 


•EQU 03 




POP PASCAL 




PLA 




PLA 




PLA 




PLA 




F0F ADDRS 



.DISCARD 4 BYTES 
.OF STACK BIAS 
fASSOCIATED WITH 
FUNCTIONS 

.SAVE ADDRESS TO 
iPEEK 

Listing 2 continued on page 118 



116 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 71 on inquiry card. 




The best news since CP M . . . 
customizable full screen editing 



As a serious computer user you spend much of 
your time editing, whether it be for program development 
or word processing. Make the best use of your time with 
the help of VEDIT, an exceptionally fast and easy to use full 
screen editor. VEDIT is a highly refined and proven editor 
which is easy enough for novices to learn and use. Yet its 
unequalled set of features also makes it the choice of 
computer professionals. And because VEDIT is user 
customizable, it adapts to your keyboard, hardware, 
applications and preferences. 

In VEDIT, the screen continuously displays the 
region of the file being edited, a status line and cursor. 
Changes are made by first moving the cursor to the text 
you wish to change. You can then overtype, insert any 
amount of new text or hit a function key. These changes 
are immediately reflected on the screen and become the 
changes to the file. 

VEDIT has the features you need, including 
searching, file handling, text move and macros, plus it has 
many special features. Like an 'UNDO' key which undoes 
the changes you mistakenly made to a screen line. And a 
mode which allows a programmer to enter all text in lower 
case and let VEDIT convert the labels, opcodes and 
operands, but not the comments, to upper case. The 
screen writing is almost instantaneous on a memory 
mapped display or can use your CRT terminal's editing 
capabilities. Disk access is very fast too, and VEDIT uses 
less than 1 2K of memory. The extensive 70 page, clearly 
written manual has sections for both the beginning and 
experienced user. 

Totally User Customizable 

Included is a setup program which allows you to 
easily customize many parameters in VEDIT, including 



the keyboard layout for all cursor and function keys, 
screen size (up to 70 lines, 200 columns), default tab 
positions, scrolling methods and much more. This setup 
program requires no programming knowledge or 
'patches', but simply prompts you to press a key or enter a 
parameter. 

The CRT version supports all terminals by allowing 
you to select during setup which terminal VEDIT will run 
on. Features such as line insert and delete, reverse scroll 
and reverse video are used on 'smart' terminals. Special 
function keys on terminals such as the HI 9, Televideo 
920C and IBM 3101, and keyboards producing 8 bit 
codes or escape sequences are also supported. 

New Features and Support 

The new release includes disk write error recovery, 
indent and undent keys for structured programming, and 
the ability to insert a specified line range of another file at 
the cursor position. Versions for MP/M and the Apple 11 R 
SoftCard R are now also available. 

Ordering 

Specify the CRT version, your video board or 
microcomputer, the 8080/Z80 or Z80 code version, and 
disk format required. 

Standard Package: Disk and manual $110 

Manual: Price refunded with software purchase 15 

VISA and MASTER CARD Welcomed. 
Attractive Dealer Terms. 

CP/M and MP/M are registered trademarks of Digital 
Research, Inc. Apple 11 is a registered trademark of Apple 
Computer, Inc. SoftCard is a trademark of Microsoft. 



North Star • Heath H8/H89 • SuperBrain • Apple 11 SoftCard • Sorcerer • TRS-80 Model I 
TRS-80 Model 11 • MP/M • Most other CP/M R Systems with CRT or Memory Mapped Displays 

CompuView Products Inc. 

618 Louise, Ann Arbor, Michigan 48103 • Telephone (313) 996-1299 



Circle 72 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



117 




OS-9™ MULTIPROGRAMMING 
OPERATING SYSTEM 



/•true multitasking, real time operating system for 
/ M timesharing, software development, database, 
L m process control, and other general applications. 
This versatile OS runs on almost any 6809-based computer. 

■ UNIX™ -like file system with hierarchical directories, 
byte-addressable random-access files, and full file security. 
Versatile, easy-to-use input/output system is hardware in- 
dependent and expandable. 

■ Powerful "shell" command interpreter features: I/O 
redirection, multiple job stream processing, and more. In- 
cludes a complete set of utility commands. 

■ OS-9 Level Two uses hardware memory management 
and can address over one megabyte of memory. Also 
includes pipes and filters for inter-process data transfers. 

■ OS-9 Level One runs on systems without memory 
management hardware having up to 56K memory. 
DOS-9 Level Two $495* □ Level One $195 

BASIC09™ PROGRAMMING 
LANGUAGE SYSTEM 

Extended BASIC language compiler/interpreter with 
integrated text editor and debug package. Runs 
standard BASIC programs or minimally-modified 
PASCAL programs. 

■ Permits multiple named program modules having local 
variables and identifiers. Modules are reentrant, position 
independent and ROMable. 

■ Additional control statements for structured 
programming: IF . . . THEN . . . ELSE, FOR ... NEXT, 
REPEAT . . . UNTIL, WHILE ... DO, LOOP . . . ENDLOOP, 
EX1T1F . . . ENDEXIT. 

■ Allows user-defined data types and complex data 
structures. Five built-in data types: byte, integer, 

9 digit floating-point, string and boolean. 

■ Runs under OS-9'" Level One or Level Two. D$195* 

OTHER OS-9™ FAMILY SOFTWARE 

■ Stylograph 1 " Screen-Oriented Word Processor 

■ Interactive Assembler ■ Macro Text Editor 

■ Interactive Debugger 

BASIC09 and OS-9 are trademarks of Microware® and Motorola. UMX is 
a trademark of Bell Laboratories.* Most software is available on ROM or 
diskette in versions for many popular 6809 computers. Contact 
Microware® for specific availability. 




MICROWARG® 

Microware Systems Corp., Dept. B2 

5835 Grand Avenue, Des Moines, Iowa 50304 

(515) 279-8844 • TWX 910-520-2535 



Listing 2 continued: 




LDA *00 


.INITIALIZE 


TftY 


JY-REG 


PHA 


.PUSH MSB OF 




JRETURNED VALUE*. 




JZER0 


LDA 8ADDRS.Y 


.LOAD A WITH LSB 




5 OF RETURN VALUE 


PHA 


.PUSH ON STACK 


PUSH PASCAL 




RTS 


J BACK TO PASCAL 


.PR0C CALL.l 


! 1 PARAMETER WORD 



PROCEDURE CALLt ADDRS)? 

EFFECT t 

CALLS THE ROUTINE LOCATED AT ADDRS 
AND RETURNS TO PASCAL 

USES A FORM OF INDIRECT ADDRESSING 
SUGGESTED BY KENNETH SKIER IN THE JAN 
19S0 OF BYTE. P. 118.: 

A JSR INSTRUCTION FOLLOWED BY "ADDRS" 
ARE LOADED INTO CONSECUTIVE LOCATIONS 

^BEGINNING AT LOCATION "JUMP". CALL THEN 
JEXECUTES A JSR TO THAT LOCATION THEREBY 
JTRANSFERRING CONTROL TO THE ROUTINE 
"LOCATED AT "ADDRS". 
5 

JUHEN THE RTS IN THE DESTINATION ROUTINE 
"IS ENCOUNTERED. CONTROL IS RETURNED TO 
^LOCATION "DONE". THEN TO THE MAIN BODY 
50F CALL, THEN TO PASCAL. 







JUMP 


.EQU 02 


ADDRS 


.EQU 03 


ADDRSHI 


.EQU 04 


DONE 


•EQU 05 




POP PASCAL 




LDA *20 




STA JUHP 




LDA *60 




STA DONE 




POP ADDRS 5SAVES ADDRESS OF 




J DESTINATION ROU- 




TINE 




JSR JUHP 




PUSH PASCAL 




RTS 



,PR0C DIALIT.l 
» 
» A PROCEDURE TO DIAL THE PHONE USING 

Listing 2 continued on page 120 



118 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 73 on inquiry card. 



MULTIUSER 



III 



iiimmimim 




L 



COMPUTER 

ON S- 1 DO BUS 
DESIGNEO TO 
SATISFY A WIDE 
VARIETY OF ' 

APPLICATIONS. 

STANDARD FEATURES 

INCLUDE: CP/M . 
OPERATING SYSTEM, E4K 
EXPANDABLE, BANKSE- 
MEMORY,4MHZ 
ZSDA CPU WITH 4 SERIAL 
AND 3 PARALLEL PORTS, 
RELIABLE B" FLOPPY DISK 
DRIVES IN A STURDY ALL 
METAL CABINET. 

$ 49DO 

MP M OPTIONAL. 

;? - tii m» u registered trade marks oh t gum ke 



fpl 



r~ 



WM 



. .O. BOX 1847 SAN DIEGO, CA. 32112 
333 MISSION CENTER RD SAN DIEGO.CA. 321QB 

(714] 296-9183 






Listing 2 continued: 
THE D.C. HAYES MICROMDEM II. 

THIS ROUTINE IS CALLED BY THE PROCEDURE 

DIAL(NUMBERISTRING) 

IN THE LIBRARY UNIT MICROMDEM. 

THIS ROUTIINE ASSUMES THE MICROMDEM 
IS IN SLOT 2 ON THE MOTHER BOARD. 
IT SHARES "MODEMCOPY". 
WHICH CONTAINS A COPY OF THE MODEM 
CONTROL WORD* WITH THE LIBRARY UNIT. 



hODEh .EQU OCOA5 
MODEMCOPY. EQU 067A 

WAIT61 .EQU 9? 

UAIT3? .EQU 7A 

LOCATION .EQU 02 

LENGTH .EQU 04 

HANGUP .EQU 06 

PICKUP .EQU 07 



."SAVE THE PASCAL RETURN ADDRESS 
POP PASCAL 

.POP THE HEhORY ADDRESS OF THE 
(TELEPHONE NUMBER 
POP LOCATION 

.'INITIALIZE LOCATIONS HANGUP 




MODEL PC-10: Finger Controlled 




Desoldering 
Systems 

REMOVE ANY COMPONENT 

FROM ANY PCB 

. . . QUICKLY AND SAFELY 



MODEL PC-20: 
Footpedal Controlled 



STANDARD SYSTEM FEATURES 

■ Lightweight and Portable 

■ Internal Vacuum Pump 

■ Sodr-X-Tractor Handpiece 

■ Variable Temperature Control 




INCORPORATED 

9893 Brewers Court ■ Laurel, Md. 20810 ■ phone (301) 490-9860 



(AND PICKUP FOR 


PROPER 


DIALING 


LDA 


MODEMCOPY 








AND 


♦7F 








STA 


HANGUP 








LDA 


MODEMCOPY 








ORA 


#80 








STA 


PICKUP 








i REMEMBER HOW MANY 


DIGITS IN 


;the 


TELEPHONE 


NUMBER 




LDY 


♦00 








LDA 


0LOCATION.Y 








STA 


LENGTH 








(INITIALIZE TO 


GET 


THE 


FIRST 


(DIGIT 








LDY 


♦ 01 








NXTDIGIT TYA 










PHA 


(SAVE DIGIT 


NUMBER 


ON STACI 



LDA BIOSIN iSWTICH TO BIOS 

LDA SLOCATION.Y (DISPLAY DIGIT 

JSR VIDOUT >0N CONSOLE 

LDA BIOSOUT .'BACK TO PASCAL 

PLA (RECOVER DIGIT NUMBER 

TAY 

LDA @LOCATION,Y (GET DIGIT AGAIN 



START 



PULSE 



(CONVERT DIGIT FROM CHARATER FORM 


SEC 








SBC 


*30 






BNE 


START 






LDA 


*0A (IN CASE 


DIGIT 


IS 


(INITIALIZE X TO 


COUNT 


PULSES 


TAX 








(DIAL THE DIGIT 






LDA 


HANGUP 






STA 


MODEM 






LDA 


♦UAIT61 






JSR 


WAIT 






LDA 


PICKUP 






STA 


MODEM 






LDA 


♦WAIT39 






JSR 


WAIT 






DEX 








BNE 


PULSE 







(WHEN DONE WITH A DIGIT CHECK 
(TO SEE IF DONE WITH NUMBER 





CPY 


LENGTH 










BEQ 


DONE 










(IF 


NOT. WAIT A 


WHILE 


THEN 


GET 




(THE 


NEXT DIGIT 










JSR 


LONGWAIT 










INY 












BPL 


NXTDIGIT 








DONE 


PUSr 


1 PASCAL 










RTS 










LONGWAIT 


LDX 


♦05 








AGAIN 


LDA 
JSR 
DEX 
BNE 
RTS 


♦OFF 
WAIT 

AGAIN 









Listing 2 continued on page 122 



120 February 1981 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 75 on Inquiry card. 



WHY GROWING CONCERNS PICK 
OUR FLOPPY BASED SYSTEMS 



Growing concerns require 
fresh ideas. Ideas that 
stimulate growth. Ideas 
that manage growth. Ideas 
that are designed to grow 
with the business. 

Altos Computer 
Systems, a world leader in 
single board microcom- 
puter technology, cultivates 
these ideas and delivers 
them in an attractive 
assortment of economical 
floppy disk based systems. 

Take the compact, 
portable ACS8000-2 family, 
for example. This dual 
floppy system with 64 
KBytes of RAM is perfect 
for inexpensive work station appli- 
cations such as business accounting 
and word processing. 

Altos' versatile and upgradable 
ACS8000-5 system is the solution for 
growing storage capacities. Simply 
add chips to Altos' reliable, fully 
socketed single board computer to 
upgrade to any of Altos' ACS8000-6 
hard disk or multi-user systems. 
Choose up to 208 KBytes of on- 
board RAM storage which can be 
accessed in 48 KByte banks— one 
bank for each of four users. Like all 
Altos family members, the 
ACS8000-5 has full asynchronous, 
bisynchronous, and networking 
communications capabilities. 

All Altos systems are packaged 
with the most select features, such 
as the single board Z80A* CPU, 




quality Shugart drives, and optional 
DMA and floating point processors. 
And every Altos system must endure 
extensive reliability testing including 
48 hours of in-process burn-ins. 

Altos supports three industry 
standard operating systems: single/ 
multi-user CP/M,** OASIS} and Altos' 
proprietary AMEX.'" Seven high level 
programming languages are offered 
which are CP/M or AMEX compatible. 

Weed through the micro- 
computer system alternatives. No 
matter what your application, you'll 
pick Altos. 

For specific details about 
pricing or performance, call or write-. 
Altos Computer Systems, 
2360 Bering Drive, San Jose, CA, 
95131, (408) 946-6700, Telex 171562 
ALTOS SNJ. 



1-4 Users 



System 
Software 




Floppy 
Disks: 
.5Mb-2Mb 
And Cartridge 
Tape Back-Up 



Packed with 
Fresh Ideas 

COMPUTER SYSTEMS 



*ZB0A is a registered trademark of Zilog. Inc. 



'CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research. Inc. 10ASIS is a registered trademark of Phase One Systems. Inc. © I980 Altos Computer Systems 



Circle 76 on inquiry card. 



BVTE February 1981 



121 



Listing 2 continued: 



WAIT 


SEC 


WAIT2 


PHA 


UAIT3 


SBC #01 




BNE UAIT3 




PLA 




SBC #01 




BNE UAIT2 




RTS 



;bits to be set and update 

(MODEM 

PLA 

ORA MODEMCOPY 

STA MODEMCOPY 

STA MODEM 

PLA (DISCARD MSB OF 
JNEUBITS 



.PROC NEWM0DEMVALUE,1 

A PROCEDURE TO CHANGE THE CONTENTS 
OF LOCATION «0A5 UHICH IS THE (SLOT 
2) LOCATION OF THE MICROMODEM CONTROL 
WORD. THIS IS A ROUTINE WRITTEN ESPE- 
CIALLY FOR USE BY THE LIBRARY UNIT 
MICROMODEM. 

THE ROUTINE LOGOCAL ORS ITS ARGUMENT WITH 
THE CONTENTS OF MODEMCOPY. J067A, SAVES 
THE RESULT IN MODEMCOPY AND WRITES IT TO 
MODEM. *C0A5. 



MODEMCOPY ,EQU 067 A 
MODEM .EQU 0C0A5 

POP PASCAL 



iPULL THE VALUE OF THE NEW 



TERMINALS FROM TRANSNET 



PURCHASE PLAN • 12-24 MONTH FULL OWNERSHIP PLAN • 36 MONTH LEASE PLAN 

PURCHASE PER MONTH 

DESCRIPTION PRICE 12M0S 24MDS 36MDS 

LA36 DECwriter II $1 ,695 S162 S 90 S 61 

LA34 DECwriter IV 1,095 105 58 40 

LA34 DECwriter IV Forms Ctrl. .. 1,295 124 68 46 

LA120 DECwriler III KSR 2,495 239 140 90 

LA120 DECwriler III RD 2.295 220 122 83 

VTIOOCRTDECscope 1,895 182 102 69 

VT132 CRT DECscope 2,295 220 122 83 

TI745 Portable Terminal 1 ,595 153 85 58 

TI765 Bubble Memory Terminal . 2,595 249 138 93 

TI783 Portable KSR, 120 CPS .. . 1,745 167 93 63 

TI785 Portable KSR, 120 CPS . . . 2,395 230 128 86 

TI787 Portable KSR, 120CPS... 2,845 273 152 102 

TI810 ROPrinler 1,895 182 102 69 

TI820 KSR Printer 2,195 211 117 80 

730 Desk Top Printer 715 69 39 26 

737 W/P Desk Top Printer 895 86 48 32 

704 RS232-C Printer 1,795 172 96 65 

6081 High Speed Band Printer . . 5.495 527 293 198 

DT80/1 CRTTerminal 1,795 172 96 65 

DT80/1L 15' Screen CRT 2,295 220 122 83 

DT80/5APLCRT 2,095 200 112 75 

DT80/5LAPL15';CRT 2.595 249 138 94 

ADM3A CRTTerminal 875 84 47 32 

ADM31CRT Terminal 1,450 139 78 53 

AOM42 CRT Terminal 2,195 211 117 79 

1420 CRT Terminal 945 91 51 34 

1500 CRTTerminal 1,095 105 58 40 

1552 CRT Terminal 1,295 125 70 48 

'.nm- _ Letter Duality KSR, 55 CPS 3,395 326 181 123 

' iiJi'jl- ■ Letter Duality RO, 55 CPS 2,895 278 154 104 

2621A CRT Terminal 1,495 144 80 54 

2621PCRTTerminal 2,650 255 142 96 



DEC 



TEXAS 
INSTRUMENTS 



CENTRONICS 



DATAMEDIA 



LEAR SIEGLER 



HAZELTINE 



HEWLETT PACKARD 



FULL OWNERSHIP AFTER 12 OR 24 MONTHS • 10% PURCHASE OPTION AFTER 36 MONTHS 



ACCESSORIES AND PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT 

ACOUSTIC COUPLERS • MODEMS ■ THERMAL PAPER ■ RIBBONS • INTERFACE MODULES • FLOPPY DISK UNITS 



OTHER POPULAR TERMINALS, COMPUTER PERIPHERALS AND COMPUTERS AVAILABLE. 



RA NSiXET corporation 

1945 ROUTE 22 • UNION, N.J. 07083 • (201) 688-7800 

TWX 71 0-985-5485 



.BACK TO PASCAL 
PUSH PASCAL 
RTS 



.PROC SNDCHAR 

i APROCEDURE TO OUTPUT ONE CHARACTER 

i THROUGH THE MICROMODEM LOCATED IN 

> SLOT 2. 

i 

r ROUTINE IS CALLED FROM THE LIBRARY 

5 UNIT MICROMODEM. 



RPTR 


.EQU 


0BF18 


WPTR 


.EQU 


0BF19 


CONBUF 


.EQU 


03B1 


BUMP 


.EQU 


0D72C 


DATAOUT 


• EQU 


0778 


OUTA 


.EQU 


0C202 




LDA 


BIOSIN 




JSR 


CONCHECK 




LDX 


RPTR 




CPX 


WPTR 




BEG 


HOME 




JSR 


BUMP 




STX 


RPTR 




LDA 


CONBUF »X 




STA 


DATAOUT 




JSR 


OUTA 


HOME 


LDA 
RTS 


BIOSOUT 



.FUNC GTCHAR 

A ROUTINE TO GET ONE CHARACTER FROM 
THE MICROMODEM DATA INPUT LOCATION 
DATAIN. THE ROUTINE ASSUMES THE RE- 
CEIVER REGISTER IS FULL. 

AFTER FETCHING THE CHARACTER THE ROU- 
TINE OUTPUTS IT TO THE CONSOLE SCREEN 
AND RETURNS THE VALUE TO THE CALLING 
PROGRAM AS A FUNCTION RESULT. 

THIS ROUTINE IS PART OF THE LIBRARY 
UNIT MICROMODEM. 



DATAIN 



.EQU 0COA7 
POP PASCAL 



Listing 2 continued on page 124 



122 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 77 on inquiry card. 



Moke 

Vour 

Dreams 

Come True 





Imagine sitting down ot Your computer 
system and developing that specialized 
application you've always dreamed 
about — with absolutely 
no programming! 

Now you can with PRISM™ — the First 
Data Base Management System that 
provides the Total Solution to your 
information management needs. UJith 
PRISM™, you can have your application 
up and running in a matter of minutes - 
not months. 



PRISM requires CP/M and C6P.SIC. (CP/M is a registered 
trademark of Digital Research. CSRSIC is a trademark of 
Complier Systems.) 



PRISM's flexibility and ease of use are 
combined with its full spectrum of 
features and capabilities to make it the 
ideal DBMS for a wide range of business 
applications. Mailing Lists, Patient 
Records, Real (Estate Listings, and Client 
Billings are just a few of the possibilities. 
And PRISM™ provides the quality, 
performance, and affordability you have 
come to expect from MAG software 
products. 

To find out how your dreams can 

become realities, see your PRISM™ 

dealer today. 

Micro Applications Group, 7300 Caldus 

Avenue, Van Nuys, California 91406, 

(213)881-8076. 



PRisnn 



TM 



"The Total Solution" fUlMB 



£ MAG 1980 



Circle 78 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 19B1 123 



Text continued from page 108: 

status of the acia) 

memory. pntr[0]:=x; (write the 

acia control word) 

This technique is used in the code for 
several of the listed routines. Im- 
plementation of the technique may be 
machine dependent. The alternative 
is to link externally assembled 
machine-language programs to per- 
form the work of BASIC'S PEEK and 
POKE. Such programs are illustrated 
below. 

The procedure "initacia" performs 
initialization of the ACIA by setting it 
up for characters of the length spec- 
ified by the parameter value. It then 
waits for a no-carrier-detected signal 
before returning. 

Several of the procedures call the 
external procedure "newmodem- 
value" which is used to set selected 
bits in the modem control word to 
logical 1 without affecting the status 
of any other bits. By contrast, "set- 
modem" sets all bits (except the sel- 
ected ones) to logical 0. 

Procedure "waitforcarrier" waits a 
period of time to detect a carrier after 
dialing the phone. Unloading the loc- 
ation "datain" in the WHILE... DO 
loop is necessary to satisfy the ACIA, 
as suggested on pages 38 and 39 of the 
owner's manual. 

The procedures "sendchar" and 
"getchar" are Pascal hosts for calling 
the external procedures "sndchar" 
and "gtchar" which are the work- 
horses for simple modem I/O. "Get- 
char" passes the character it gets to 
the calling program via the variable 
parameter "ch" in case the user wishes 
to process "ch" further (say, by send- 
ing it to the system printer). I have 
done this to retain printed copy of 
terminal sessions. 

The statement "setmodem (reset- 
flag);" in the body of the unit will be 
executed as an initialization step 
when the host program is executed. 
Setting the reset flag informs the 
ACIA that default initializations are 
not to be applied when the ACIA is 
first called for input or output. 

The External Procedures 

The assembly-language programs 
called in the implementation block of 
the unit (see listing 2) are part of a file 
called NATIVECODE. I have stored 
these and other low-level utility 
routines, such as the PEEK and POKE 
routines, in a library unit. Therefore 
they can be called from any of my 



Listing 2 continued 


I; 




PLA 


(DISCARD 4 


BYTES OF FUNC- 


FLA 


;tion BIAS 




PLA 






PLA 






LDA 


BIOSIN 




JSR 


CONCHECK 




;get 


' CHARACTER 


AND 


,'PUSH FUNCTION 


RESULT 


LDA 


♦00 




PHA 






LDA 


DATAIN 




PHA 






fOUTPUT TO CONSOLE 


JSR 


VIDOUT 




LDA 


BI0S0UT 




PUSH 


PASCAL 




RTS 







.END 



Listing 3: The Pascal program called "fullduplex". This program makes use of the com- 
piled code of the unit, linked with the assembled code of NATIVECODE. 

PROGRAM full duplex; 

USES Oiicromodeni j 

FUNCTION peeKC Iocs t ion! INTEGER it INTEGER,' EXTERNAL? 

PROCEDURE dialupj 
VAR number ' STRING) 
wordHNTEGER; 



PROCEDURE sSetaeiacntrKVAR 


word 


I INTEGER)! 


BEGIN 








REPEAT 








P33e( output )> 








3oto>;y( r 3 ) » 








wri teln( ' Select 


the ACIA 


control word! ' ) > 


wri telnfwri teln 


1 






wntelnC'CHAR 


PARITY : 


3T0P 


CONTROL-' )» 


writeln< 'LENGTH 


BIT 


BITS 


WORD ' )» 


■ . * , / 






- — ' i : 










uritelnC ' 7 


EVEN 


4- 


r ); 


uritelnC' 7 


ODD 


-1 


5' ); 


uritelnC ' 7 


EVEN 


1 


9' ); 


uritelnC ' 7 


ODD 


1 


13' ),' 


uritelnC' 8 


NONE 





17' j; 


wri telnC ' 8 


NONE 


1 


2i' ); 


uritelnC 8 


EVEN 


1 


25' ;; 


uritelnC' 8 


ODD 


1 


29' ); 


wri teln) 








unteC 'ACIA con 


trol word 


~"*V 


>; 


readlnC word )> 








UNTIL word IN CI 


,5,9,13,1 


7,21,25,29]; 


END) C Setcntrlword 3 







BEGIN C dislup 3 
setroodenK resetf ls£ ); 



Listing 3 continued on page 126 



124 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 




GOmPUTER WAREHOUSE 



CALL TOLL FREE 1-800-528-1054 



ATARI 

800 (16K) S775 

400 S440 

810 Disk Drive $520 

825 Printer $750 

850 Interface $160 

16K Memory $110 

410 Recorder $ 70 

830 Modern $145 

Star Raiders $ 45 

Software From $ 10 

Special 32K 800 System 

800 w/32K, recorder 

star raiders, joystick $970 

MODEMS 

Lexicon 
LEX-II $115 

Novation 

CAT $ 1 50 

D-CAT $160 

MONITORS 

APF-9" Monitor $123 

Sanyo - 9" Monitor $1 47 

VIDEO TERMINALS 

Hazeltine 

1500 $848 

1420 $795 

Soroc 

iq 120 $693 

IQ 140 $1099 

Televideo 

912 B $724 

912 C $724 

920 B $773 

920 C $773 

Zenith - Z - 19 $789 

PRINTERS 

Centronics 

730 Serial $650 

730 Parallel $598 

737 Serial $854 

737 Parallel $765 

Diablo 

1640 630 $2400 

1650 Call 

Epson-MX-80 Call 

NEC 

5510 Call 

5520 Call 

Okidata - Microline 80 $524 

Qume 

5/45 Call 

5/55 Call 

Teletype 

Model 40 Call 

Model 43 w/Pinfeed . . 
Texas Instruments 

810 Basic. . .' 

810 Loaded 

820 KSR Basic 

820 KSR Package . . . 



$1005 

$1516 
$1739 
$1732 
$1916 




COMPUTERS 

Altos Call 

Dynabyte Call 

Northstar 

HRZ II-32K D (Assm) $2300 

HRZ II-32K Q (Assm) $2665 

Zenith 

Z-89 48K $2210 



DISKETTES 

BASF 

5V4-0 Sector S/S D/D (Qty 10) $33 
5/4-10 Sector S/S D/D (Qty 10) $33 
5V4-10 Sector D/S D/D (Qty 10) $37 

Memorex 
5 7.-10 Sector S/S D/D (Qty 10) $27 

Dysan 

574-10 Sector S/S D/D (Qty 10) $37 
574-10 Sector D/S D/D (Qty 10) $42 

Scotch 

574-0, 10, 16 Sector (Qty 100) $275 
8"-0, 32 Sector (Qty 100) $275 



(BUY, SELL, TRADE 



Experienced Equipments 

Soroc IQ 120 ..$500 Centronics 779 
Tl 810 Basic . . $1200 

TVI 912 $550 

TVI 920 $600 

Qume Call 

Diablo Call 



Centronics 730 
Teletype 40 $3400 NEW | 

Comprint $400 

Z-89 Call 

Sanyo15"Monitor $195 




Prices reflect 3% cash discount. Product shipped 
in factory cartons with manufactures warranty. Add 
2%, a minimum of $5, for shipping and handling. 




|UJ 



GOmPLTTER _^_ 
uJR RjHOUg £$ 



2222 E. Indian School Rd. • Phoenix, Arizona 85016 
(602) 954-6109 

Store Hours: Tues.- Friday 1 0-6 MST Saturday 1 0-5 MST 



Pascal programs. As mentioned 
above, when appropriate, POKE and 
PEEK can be substituted whenever 
the variable "memory" is used to ad- 
dress memory. 

When a call-by-value is made to an 
external procedure using scalar 
parameters, the Pascal interpreter 
places the values of the parameters on 
the stack in reverse order of declara- 
tion in the procedure, followed by the 
Pascal return address. External func- 
tions have 4 additional bytes added to 
the stack before the Pascal address. 
When a call-by-variable (or a call-by- 
value using nonscalar parameters) is 
made, a pointer to the variable is 
loaded on the stack. The difference in 
these calls is illustrated in the defini- 
tions of POKE, PEEK, and DIALIT. 

The declarations for NATIVE- 
CODE start with the definitions for 
two macros and several global 
equates; these declarations are 
available to all the routines in the file. 
One macro pops (removes) 2 bytes 
from the stack (this implementation 
of Pascal is 2-bytes-per-word ori- 
ented) and saves them in successive 
locations specified by the parameters 
in the call; the other macro reverses 
this. 

The global equates BIOSIN and 
BIOSOUT establish the addresses of 
two soft switches for gaining access to 
the Apple's BIOS. One reference to 
BIOSIN switches it into program- 
mable memory while two successive 
references enable writing to the BIOS 
section of memory; a reference to 
BIOSOUT switches the BIOS out and 
the Pascal interpreter in. The declara- 
tion for CONCHECK establishes it as 
the starting address in the BIOS for 
the routine that polls the Apple's 
keyboard. VIDOUT is the address of 
the routine for displaying characters 
on the video monitor. 

The procedure DIALIT illustrates 
call-by-value with a nonscalar value: 
a pointer to the number to be dialed is 
passed to the program. After storing 
the pointer, the routine prepares to 
dial by setting the temporary loca- 
tions HANGUP and PICKUP and 
finding the length of the number. 
Dialing is accomplished by alter- 
nating the phone between the onhook 
and offhook states. (We assume the 
phone is off the hook when the 
routine is called.) The recommended 
dialing protocol is 61 ms onhook 
followed by 39 ms offhook with an 
interdigit delay of at least 600 ms. 

The procedure SNDCHAR is used 



Listing 3 continued: 

P32e( output )i 

2oto;;y( 0»5 )» 

writeln 1 ; 'Enter the Fhone number.'); 

writeln i 

write* ' — > ' )r 

re3dln'! number )r 

2et3ci3cntrl( word )i 

P32e( output )»' 

2oto>;yi Of 5 )■ 

writei ' Preparing to di3l» pie3se wait...' )r 

init3cis( word )? 

picKupJ 

setniode( originate »hiah ) > 

writeln( 'OK' )i 

disl( number )i 

writeln > 

writeln( 'U3itir,a for carrier. .»' )> 

w3itforc3rrier» 

end; 

PROCEDURE terminal? 
VAR chrCHARi 

error {INTEGER; 

1 
BEGIN 
p3Se(output )i 
2oto>;y(0i5)i' 

writelnt 'C3rrier OK. Begin coBaunic3tions.' )> 
en3bletr3nsnii t j 
REPEAT 
IF sci3error 
THEN IF NOT C3rrier 
THEN BEGIN 

unitcle3r( 1 )> 
exit( terminal )i 
END 
ELSE BEGIN 

write( '*' )i 
error i=peek( d3t3in )i 
END 
ELSE IF rcvrfull 

THEN 2etch3r(ch) 
ELSE sendch3r; 
UNTIL NOT C3rrierr 

end; 

FUNCTION tryssSsmtBOOLEAN; 
YAR snswrtCHARi 
BEGIN 
REPEAT 

P32e( output ); 

2oto>:y(0>5)i' 

write('No C3rrier. Try 333in? (Y/N )->')> 

re3d( 3nswr )! 

writeln? 

try323inl=3nswr IN C'Y'r'y']; 
UNTIL 3nswr IN L'V ,'N' , 'y'.'n' li 

end; 

BEGIN C fullduple;-: 3 
REPEAT 
di3lup; 
IF C3rrier 
THEN termin3i; 
UNTIL NOT try3=J3in; 
h3naup; 
END. 



126 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 79 on inquiry card. 



STOP PLAYING GAMES 



ilFHiliMJiriKM i 



Corvus Transforms the Personal Computer 
into a Powerful Business Tool. 

In business, professional offices, and schools through- 
out the world, thousands of Corvus intelligent peripherals 
bring mass storage, increased speed, and multi-user 
capability to a variety of microcomputers. Current applica- 
tions include accounts receivable and payable, medical 
records, mailing lists, inventories, word processing, insur- 
ance, mathematics and science, and other large and 
complex files. 

Corvus proven Winchester disk technology provides 
10 to 80 million bytes of capacity, fully compatible with 
your current operating system. This is up to 500 times the 
capacity of a floppy disk. 

The Corvus CONSTELLATION links up to 64 com- 
puters in a state-of-the-art multi-processor network. It 
provides shared mass storage, pipes for inter-computer 
communication, and system spooling for sharing of 
peripherals such as printers. Performance far exceeds 
that of larger and more expensive networks. 

Backup data protection and archival storage are pro- 
vided by the Corvus MIRROR (Patent Pending), a low- 
cost backup using standard video cassette recorders. 

Contact your local Corvus dealer for the full story 
about these innovative new products. . 

CORVUS SYSTEMS 

., • 2029 OToole Avenue 
: * San Jose, California 95131 
t (408) 946-7700/TWX 91 0-338-0226 



& 








Circle 80 on inquiry card. 



Texas Instruments 



INCORPORATED 





Stock market programs, oil field 
calculations, real estate software, and 
data for insurance rates are some of 
the many programs originally written 
for the Tl 59/58 calculator and 
then converted to a custom Solid 
State Software" module. Companies 
or individuals can permanently 
store up to 5000 program steps of 
their unique software in this 
nonerasable module. 

The services at American Micro 
range from shipping finished modules 
created from submitted formulas or 
programs to renting and selling the 
emulator software system that 
enables onsite development. 

COSTS 

Programs less than 

1000 steps ........ $16/module 

Programs between 1000 and 

2000 steps $30/module 

Programs between 2000 and 

5000 steps $50/module 

Minimum order is 250 modules 

705 Bowser 

Richardson, Texas 75080 

(214) 238-1815 



Here is a complete 
package of building 
blocks for developing 
remote communica- 
tions systems. 

to transmit characters through the 
modem. It does not check to see if the 
ACIA transmitter register is empty; 
this should be done in the calling pro- 
gram using "transempty". Location 
CONBUF is the start address for the 
BIOS's console keyboard buffer, and 
WPTR and RPTR indicate the num- 
ber of characters written to and read 
from the buffer. BUMP is the address 
of a routine that updates these 
numbers. 

SNDCHAR first polls the console 
keyboard. If there is a character in the 
buffer, it loads it into DATAOUT, 
then calls the output routine on the 
modem. At the end of all this, the ad- 
dress for returning to Pascal is still on 
the top of the stack, so an RTS (re- 
turn from subroutine) instruction 
transfers control to the calling pro- 
gram. 

In GTCHAR, VIDOUT is the ad- 
dress of the BIOS routine for sending 
characters to the video monitor. 
GTCHAR (analogous to SNDCHAR) 
assumes the ACIA's receiver register 
is full, a condition that should be 
checked in the calling program. The 
routine starts by saving the Pascal 
return address, discarding 4 bytes of 
stack bias, and polling the Apple's 
keyboard. It then fetches the charac- 
ter from the input location DATAIN, 
pushes it on the stack as the function 
result, and jumps to VIDOUT to 
display the character. 

Using the Unit 

At this point, we need only compile 
the unit, assemble the file NATIVE- 
CODE, link the two, and store the 
resulting final code in a library in 
order to use the unit. The program 
"fullduplex" (see listing 3) illustrates 
the use of the unit. The program also 
makes a call to the external function 
PEEK. 

The main body of "fullduplex" and 
the procedure "dialup" are self- 
documenting. As for "terminal", the 
procedure continues sending and re- 
ceiving characters until an ACIA er- 
ror is found. If the error is the lack of 
a carrier, the program hangs up the 



phone, clears the keyboard buffer of 
any junk, and exits "terminal" to 
"tryagain". If any other error is en- 
countered, the character "§" is writ- 
ten to the video display and the re- 
ceiver register is emptied to clear the 
error condition. I have used this pro- 
gram to communicate with several 
time-sharing systems and it has no 
problem keeping up at 300 bps. 

Modifying the Apple's BIOS 

The procedures presented thus far 
are quite adequate for a variety of 
dumb terminal applications, but they 
are not particularly well suited to 
mass-data transfer applications such 
as transmitting preprocessed files or 
whole volumes. For the latter, we 
would like to make use of the reper- 
toire of UCSD Pascal intrinsic pro- 
cedures for processing files. The key 
to using these procedures is an 
understanding of the BIOS (basic in- 
put/output system). 

Each implementaton of UCSD 
Pascal, such as Apple's, requires an 
interpreter and a BIOS to support it. 
Roughly speaking, the interpreter 
translates p-code (the code emitted by 
the Pascal compiler) into machine 
language, and the BIOS handles the 
physical I/O to system devices. The 
BIOS modifications discussed below 
apply only to the Apple and may re- 
quire revision if new versions of the 
BIOS are released. Hints on modify- 
ing another system's BIOS may 
perhaps be found in the UCSD Pascal 
User's Manual published by SofTech 
Microsystems. However, it is likely 
you will need a commented listing of 
your BIOS; I obtained a copy of the 
Apple BIOS from Apple in the form 
"The Preliminary Guide to Inter- 
facing Foreign Hardware." 

To fully explain the operation of 
the BIOS and the options the pro- 
grammer has for modifying it would 
require a great deal of discussion. In- 
stead I will provide a summary of its 
operation and offer a set of modifica- 
tions that have worked for me. 

Whenever a call for input or output 
is made from a Pascal program, the 
interpreter formats the data and 
determines which device is being 
called. Following this, the BIOS is 
switched in and then determines how 
the device is interfaced with the 
system. As currently configured, the 
Apple's interpreter and BIOS can 
recognize four types of external 

Text continued on page 136 



128 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



THE UNBEATABLE S-100 



MEMORY 



?,,* 







That's the MEASUREMENT systems & con- 
trols DMB Series of S-100 bus memory 
modules, fully compatible with ALPHA 
MICRO, CROMEMCO, DYNABYTE , NORTH 
STAR, MP/M, and most other S-100 systems. 

Definitely a winner, the DMB Series is avail- 
able with Bank Select (DMB6400) or without 
(DM6400) and utilizes industrial quality con- 
struction, provides outstanding reliability, 
and is backed by dedicated customer service 
and a one year guarantee. 

The DMB6400 uses I/O port addressing for 
the bank select feature. A switch provides the 
ability to select any one of the 256 I/O ports 
for addressing the memory banks. The mem- 
ory is configured as four totally independent 
16K software selectable banks, with each 
bank addressable on any 16K boundary. 



Systems 



Group 



a Division of MEASUREMENT systems &. controls 

incorporated 



Outstanding features such as those listed 
below make the DMB series the UNBEATABLE 
S-100 Memory: 

• Four independent 16K software select- 
able banks. 

• Each bank is independently addressable 
on any 16K boundary. 

• Switch selectable bank sizes — from 
16K to 64K in 16K increments. 

• Eight banks (51 2K) per I/O port for each 
of the 256 ports. 

• Z-80 4MHz operation with no wait 
states using transparent refresh. 

• On-board diagnostic LED's. 

• Low power — 8 watts maximum. 

• Reliable, tested and burned-in memory. 

• IEEE S-100 compatible timing. 

• One year guarantee. 

• Attractive Dealer & OEM Prices. 

See your nearest computer dealer, or contact 
us for the complete story on the UNBEAT- 
ABLE S-100 Memory. 



867 North Main St. / Orange, Calif. 92668 / (714) 633-4460 
TWX/TELEX: 678 401 TAB IRIN 









Libraries everywhere have found the 
easy way to fill photocopy requests 
legally and instantly, without the need to 
seek permissions, from this and over 
3000 other key publications in business, 
science, humanities, and social science. 

Participation in the Copyright Clear- 
ance Center (CCC) assures you of legal 
photocopying at the moment of need. 
You can: 

Fill requests lor multiple copies, 
intertibrary loan (beyond the CONTU 
guidelines), and reserve desk without 
fear of copyright infringement. 

Supply copies simply and easily from 
registered publications. The CCC's 
flexible reporting system accepts 
photocopying reports and returns an 
itemized invoice. You need not keep any 
records, our computer will do it for you. 

The Copyright Clearance Center is 
your one-stop place for on-the-spot 
clearance to photocopy for internal use. 
You will never have to decline a 
photocopy request or wonder about 
compliance with the law for any 
publication registered with the CCC. 

For more information, just contact: 




"1 



Copyright 
Clearance 
Center 



21 Congress Street 

Salem, Massachusetts 01970 

(617) 744-3350 

a not-for-profit corporation 



NAME 




TITLE 


ORGANIZATION 


ADDRESS 


CITY 


STATE 


ZIP 


COUNTRY 




TELEPHONE 



Listing 4: External procedure that modifies Apple BIOS for use 
with the Micromodem II. This expands the Apple's utility 
beyond that of a dumb terminal, allowing mass transfer (and 
processing) of whole files via the Micromodem II. 



.PR0C SYSGEN 



BIOSIN 


.EQU 0C083 


BI0S0UT 


.EQU 0C08B 


C0NCHECK 


.EQU 0D681 


ACIA 


.EQU 0C0A6 


DATAOUT 


.EQU 0778 


DATAIN 


.EQU 0C0A7 


M0DEH 


•EQU 0C0A5 


0UTA 


.EQU 0C202 


IC0M 


.EQU 0D7A3 


RINIT 


•EQU 0D79C 


RWRITE 


.EQU 0D80? 


UC0H 


.EQU 0D81F 


RC0M 


.EQU 0D85D 


RREAD 


.EQU 0D84E 




LDA BIOSIN 




LDA BIOSIN 




LDY #00 


XRINIT 


LDA PRG2,Y 




STA RINITfY 




INY 




CPY #03 




BCC XRINIT 




LDY #00 


XlCOtt 


LDA PRG3,Y 




STA ICOhSY 




INY 




CPY #0A 




BCC XIC0M 




LDY #00 


XRWRITE 


LDA PRG4,Y 




STA RURITErY 




INY 




CPY #06 




BCC XRWRITE 




LDY #00 


XUCOM 


LDA PRG5,Y 




STA WCOMfY 




INY 




CPY #11 




BCC XWC0M 




LDY #00 


XRREAD 


LDA PRG6,Y 




STA RREAD »Y 




INY 




CPY #03 




BCC XRREAD 



130 February 1961 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Listing 4 continued on page 132 
Circle 82 on Inquiry card. > 




o 

c 



V 



> 

>s = 

.o r 
rt c 

z- 

o c 

»t <" 

ib +, 

i/i 

>s 
CO 

>s 
l. 
I. 
V 

•O 

>s 



o 
o- o 
co in 
03 ' 

El 

+: CD 
Q. . 

E^ 

O -Q 
>. 03 

^ b 



?co 
i'i 

O CD 
" > 

CO *- 
0) IS 



+-r CD 

CD 2 O 
-_. 03-^ 

o <" S 

51.1 

g CO T3 



"5 

CD ^3 
O 05 

5 5 

CO £ 
> cc 



CD 



CD 



ca c 
^ Q) 






CO 

E 

CO _- 

b) QJ 
25 

a.- . 

Q CD 
Q) O 

go 

o 



o 5 
E~ 

82 

•£3o 



T3 
CD 

t X 
03 CO 

> 



co 



CD 



03 



§ t£ 



CD 





CO 

gO-E 



a 5 
c o 

o <" 

i 03 

O -C 



3 

a. 

03 CO -^ 
CO > c 
<S CO 
^, O 



CO 

E <D 

Q3 ^ C 
% 03 O 

>Oco 



co 

03 

E-c 

-4= o 



03"°?^ 

n as O 
> £00 
4g ccO 

S 03Q 

S o ca 



ES 



5g 



co . co 
CD C .i= 
CO O " 
Q3 CO— CO 



3 

o 
5.5 



s= o 



03 C - 



03 03 co o a? 

X rn -i '. 



en 



CO ^ 



co 

1° 

CC 



h- _o ^; 



o^EO 

« ,- CD 

^ CO 0) O 



D- i —• 

D 6 > «' 

W — m S fc 

>co IS ti o 

c < w ™ S cc 

o = C5 5 ^O 
00 — cc •" ,„ (/J 
j, a> uj .E J° ^ 

O £s o^S 

o 5 § § « o 

awES£ 



CD 

CO 

CO 

d o 
in id 

w> o. 

Ifil s 



OE |2 O 

S3 §S jo 




T3 

C 
<0 

w 
o 

JO 
0) 

w 



Circle 83 on Inquiry card. 



WHAT'S 

BETTER 

THAN AN 

ISAM 



And Will Turn 

MICROSOFT'S 

BASIC 

COBOL 

FORTRAN 

DIGITAL'S 
PL/1-80 

CBASIC 

PASCAL/ MT+ 

S-BASIC 

CROMEMC0 16K BASIC 

info first class application 
languages? 



MICRO B+ 



The first and most complete 
implementation of B-TREE 
index structures for micro- 
computers. B-TREES eliminate 
index file reorganization. 



Search 

An index of over 

10,000 Key 

Values In Less 

Than One 

Second 

On A Floppy Disk System 
for only 

$260.00! 



System Houses: 
MICRO B+™ 

Available in Language C 



Fair Com 



2606 Johnson Owe 
Columbia. MO 65201 
(314)445-3304 



^'1980 Fair Com 

Shipping $4 USA / $8 Foreign 
We accept VISA and MASTERCARD 

PL/l-80 is o trademark of Digital Research 
C8ASIC is a trademark of Compiler Systems. Inc. 
S- BASIC is a trademark of Topaz Programming 
PASCAL/MT- Is a trademark of MT Micro Systems 



Listing 


4 continued: 
LDY #00 






XRCOH 


LDA PRG7,Y 
STA RCOMfY 
INY 

CPY *0F 
BCC XRCOM 

LDA BIOSOUT • 
RTS 






PRG2 


•BYTE 4Cf0A3f0D7 


JJMP 


ICOM 


PRG3 


.BYTE 0A9f03 


jlda 


♦03 




• BYTE 8DfOA6fOC0 


J STA 


ACIA 




•BYTE 0A9f 15 


JLDA 


♦ 15 




.BYTE 8Df0A6f0C0 


JSTA 


ACIA 


PRG4 


.BYTE 0A8 


JTAY 






•BYTE 0A2f00 


JLDX 


♦00 




.BYTE 4CflFfOD8 


JJMP 


WCOM 



rRG; 



•BYTE 20f81»0D6 JJSR CONCHECK 
.BYTE OADfOA6fOC0JLDA ACIA 
.BYTE 29f02 
•BYTE 0F0f0F6 
.BYTE 8Cf78f07 



.BYTE 20f02»0C2 
.BYTE 60 



JAND #02 

JBEQ WCOM 

JSTY DATAOUT 

JJSR OUTA 
JRTS 



PRG6 
PRG7 



.BYTE 4C»5DfOD8 JJMP RCOM 

.BYTE 20f81f0D6 JJSR CONCHECK 
.BYTE OADfOA6fOC0JLDA ACIA 
.BYTE 4A JLSR A 
.BYTE 90,0F7 JBCC RCOM 
.BYTE OADfOA7,OC0JLDA DATAIN 
.BYTE 0A2»00 JLDX ♦OO 
.BYTE 60 JRTS 



.END 

PROGRAM startupJ 

PROCEDURE sysSenJEXTERNALJ 

BEGIN 
suss^en J 

3oto>;y(0f5)J 

writeln* 'Welcoee to Dr. Wo's Apple Pascal!' )J 
writelnJ 

writeln('The satem has Just been modified to' )J 
writeln< ' enable communications through the' )f 
writeln( 'Hicrotodem II in slot 2.')J 
writelnJ 

writeln( 'Please set the DATE usins 1 the Filer.' )J 
END. 

Listing 5: A program to test the Micromodem II system. The program prompts the 
operator, then puts the modem through its various modes of operation. 

PROGRAM tesUodem! 

(This program tests the transmission and reception of the printing 
characters through the Micromodem II installed in slot 2 on the 
Apple's board. The program uses the Library Unit '»icromodem' and 
custom 1/0 drivers installed as modifications in the Apple's BIOS.} 

Listing 5 continued on page 134 



132 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Time is precious 

let, 

y lose it? 






tATTERY SUPPORTED 
CALENDAR CLOCKS 

PDP-11 1 ........... TCU-100- $495 w 

,rT ffft TCU-150«$460 
LSI-11/2 1 TCU-50D • $325 

Multi-Bus 2 TCU-410 • $325 

EXORcisor ; , TCU-68 • $325 

HP 2100 TCU-2100 • $395 Serial Line Clock . SLC-1 • $640 

Lockheed SUE TCU-200 *$550 (RS 232 or 20mA) Microprocessor controlled. 
*■ ■ -i»«- -a "-i-^i i ^^ Z nnr - Auto message intercept and response. 
Naked Mini 4 TCU-310 • $385 10 Digit display option $190. 

If automatic and accurate date and time entry three months). Timing is provided by a crystal 
is important to your system on power-up — controlled oscillator. Prices are U.S. domestic 
you need a Digital Pathways battery sup- single piece. Quantity discounts available. 
ported calendar clock. All Digital Pathways' 

TCUs have on board NICAD batteries to maintain For more information on these timely products, 
date and time during power down (typically up to contact: 

j. ill 

^~" ff ^v Digital Pathways Inc. 

[Trademark of Digital Equipment Corp. S ll^m^\ 1260 L'Avenida 

trademark of Intel Corp. ( ^^w-Zr - ^^ I ««_ * ■ \r ^* „.«„..« 

^Trademark of Motorola Inc. \f^Kli J Mountain View, CA 94043 

4 Trademark of Computer Automation Inc. >> >s ^ ## ^ ^ Phone : (415) 969-7600 

DIGITAL PATHWAYS 

Circle 84 on inquiry card. . byte February i98i 133 



Circle 85 on inquiry card. 




^TV eystems, inc. 

No. P7 Zenith Data Systems Z89F Microcomputer with Z47 8" Dual Disk Drive 

ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS LIST OUR PRICE 

Z89-FA Microcomputer System $2,895 $2,495 

48KB, 5.25' Disk, HDOS 
Z89-G A Microcomputer System $2,595 $2,259 

48KB, HDOS (No Disk) 

Z19 CRT Terminal SPECIAL $ 950 $ 795 

Z87 Dual 5.25" Disk Unit (200 KB) $1,195 $1,095 

Z47-BA Dual 8" Disk Unit (2MB) NEW $3,695 $3,295 

CP/M V.2.2 for Z89 $ 150 $ 140 

HDOS Operating System (with BASIC) $ 150 $ 140 

Microsoft BASIC V5.1 for CP/M $ 175 $ 160 

Microsoft BASIC V5.1 for HDOS $ 150 $ 140 

Microsoft FORTRAN $ 195 $ 180 

Microsoft COBOL $ 395 $ 350 

Word Processing for Z89 $ 395 $ 375 

To Order: Send Check or Money Order to: PK Systems, Inc., 113 North 

Center, Bloomington, IL 61701. Allow two weeks for personal checks to clear. 

For COD Orders, add 5% for handling and service charge. Rush orders, add 

$50.00. 

Shipping: Freight collect, FOB Bloomington. We ship UPS, atr freight, or 

motor freight. 

PK Systems is an Authorized Zenith Data Systems Dealer and Zenith Seivice 

Center PE^^SBW < 
B^MalrfVr-'iiHllKl CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research 



SPECTACULAR 

Offers* 



BASF"FL£XYD1SK" 
Superior quality 
data storage medium, 
certified and 
guaranteed 100% 
error free. 



5V4" or 8"* . _ . 

Diskettes 10/524 



5V4" or 8" Vinyl 
Storage Pages 



10/$5 



Write for quantity discounts 
"Single sided / Single Density 




SFD CASSETTES 
"Super Ferro Dynamic" 
Using the finest 
Agfa PE 61 1 tape 
in a professional 
quality housing. 



C-1 Cassette 

Sonic Weld ._ 

Housing 10/$ / 

Add 10C p/cassette for 5 screw housing 

Cassette Album , . __ 

Page $1.89 

Write lor quantity discounts 




■•" • r X7 



LIBRARY CASE 
3-ring binder album, 
Protects your valuable 
programs on disks or 
cassettes. Fully 
enclosed and 
protected on all sides 
similar to Kas-sette 
storage box. 



Library 3-ring binder $6.50 

5'/«'miniKas-sette/10 $2.49 
8" Kas-sette/10 $2.99 



Write for quantity discounts 




DISKETTE DRIVE 
head cleaning kits 
prevent head 
crashes and insure 
efficient error- 
free operation. 



5V4" or 8" KIT 

INTRODUCTORY 
PRICE 
$19.50 



HARDHOLE 8" applicator $4.00 

reinforcing ring of 51/,- applicator S3.00 

tough mylar protects g., ,„ hardho | es , s0 , . s8 . 00 
your disks from Lrf., h.,Hh n l.. ,Bni aft nn 

damage. 



5V<" mylar hardholes (50) SB. 00 




ABM 



PRODUCTS 
631 "B" St 
San Diego, 
CA 92101 
(714) 235-6602 



VISA • MASTERCHARGE • MONEY ORDERS 
CERTIFIED CHECK* FOR PERSONAL CHECKS 
ALLOW 2 WEEKS • COD. REQUIRES A 10% 

DEPOSIT • CAL RES. ADD 6% SALES TAX 

MIN. $2 SHIPPING & HANDLING • MINIMUM 

|ORDER $10 • SATISFACTION GUARANTEED 

OR FULL REFUND. 



Listing 5 continued: 

USES roicroniodeniT 

CONST lowch3r= ' ' i C blank 3 
hi5hch,3r = 'z' J 

VAR choutrchin.CHAR; 
error count! INTEGER? 
«! ARRAYl mode] OF STRINGC10], 
bJARRAYCbsudrste] OF STRINGC103J 
remin»remout! INTERACTIVE, 

BEGIN C main 3 

reset( reminr renin !' )> 
rewrite( remout.'remout!' )> 

m[ answer ]!=' answer' J 
ni[ori5in3te]! = 'oris : in3te' 5 
b[low]! = '110 baud', 
b[hiah]! = '300 baud' i 

FOR nid! = 3nswer TO originate DO 
FOR br.=low TO hish DO 
BEGIN 
FBSeC output )> 
5oto>;a(0»5), 

writeln( ' Testing ' rraCnid]?' mode> '»b[br])» 
writelnJwriteln? 

writeln( ' Resetting modem and ACIA.')» 
write( 'Please wait...' )> 
setmodemf self test-fr-esetf 135 )> 
initsci3(21 )i 
picKupj 

setmode(mdfbr )5 
writelnCOK' )i 
writeln? 

write( 'Please wait for carrier...'); 
enabletransait J 
waitforcarrier J 
writelnC'OK' )> 

writeln? 

writeln( ' Beeir; test*..')? 
errorcount!=OJ 

FOR chout!=lowchsr TO hishchar DO 
BEGIN 

write( remoutfchout )> 

resdf remin»chin )> 

IF (ord(chout )-ord( lowchar ) ) HOD 40<39 
THEN write(chout) 
ELSE writeln( chou t )J 

IF choutOchin 
THEN BEGIN 

errorcount.=errorcount+l 5 

writelnC 'Error in sending '»chout)i 

end; 
end; 

writelnJwriteln; 

writeln( ' Total errors this test= ' »errorcount )» 

writelnj 

write('T«pe <ret> to continue. ..' )>readln; 

end; 



134 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 86 on inquiry card. 



Circle 87 on inquiry card. 



i^c 



NEW DISK SYSTEM 
POLISHES APPLE 







I 



I 




Micro-Sci's new disk drive family 
really makes your Apple shine. 

Both the A-40 and A-70 offer 
extra performance plus the ability 
to read existing diskettes written 
on Apple Disk II systems. 

And a jumper selectable boot 
prom for 13 and 16 sector interger 
Basic or 8 sector Pascal comes 
standard. 

The Model A-40 actualy costs 
a lot less than Apple Disk II drives. 
Yet it provides 40 tracks instead of 




35, along with up to 20K increase 
in capacity. Maybe an extra 20K isn't 
anything to write home about, but 
the speed sure is — 5 ms track to 
track vs. Apple's 15 ms. 

The Model A-70, on the other 
hand, features twice the tracks and 
capacity of the Apple Disk II, but 
it costs only a few dollars more. 

The secret of outstanding per- 
formance and reliability is a state- 
of-the-art design incorporating a 
band positioner, instead of a plastic 



fj-sa 



cam, plus an improved media 
centering system. 

SPECIAL DISCOUNT. 

One A-40 plus controller is priced 
at only $495 and the second drive 
isjust$395.You can save 
up to $200 per system over Apple II 
drive prices. 

And you can save even more if 
you act now. Contact us today for 
a special $50 introductory discount 
on your Micro-Sci A-40 or A-70 
system order. 



MICRO-SCI 
1405 E. CHAPMAN AVENUE ■ SUITE E • ORANGE, CALIFORNIA 92666 

MICRO-SCI IS A DIVISION OF STANDUN CONTROLS, INC. 
Apple and Apple II are registered trademarks of APPLE COMPUTERS INC., SAN JOSE, CALIFORNIA 



714/997-9260 



Text continued from page 128: 

physical devices — consoles, printers, 
disks, and remote input/output 
devices (such as modems) — provided 
these devices are interfaced via an 
Apple-brand card. For nondisk I/O, 
the Apple's BIOS recognizes the Ap- 
ple communications, serial, and 
parallel-printer cards. If a foreign 
card is plugged into a slot, the Apple 
will know that something is there, but 
will not know how to communicate 
with it unless the card's setup happens 
to coincide with one of the Apple 
cards. Such is the case for the 
Micromodem interface: the Apple 
thinks it is communicating with a 
remote device via an Apple com- 
munications card, but it can't do I/O 
because of an address mismatch. The 
solution is to insert the correct ad- 
dresses. 

The Apple's BIOS is set up to do 
three things with the modem: init- 
ialize it, read from it, and write to it. 
In each case, the BIOS receives con- 
trol from the interpreter, jumps to a 
location reserved for the appropriate 
operation with the remote I/O de- 
vice, determines which type of card it 
is dealing with, then jumps to a loca- 
tion reserved for that combination of 



card and operation. After completing 
I/O, it returns control to the inter- 
preter. This combination of jumps 
was observed in my modifications. 
Since I have no Apple communica- 
tions cards connected to my system, I 
customized the locations to suit the 
requirements of the Micromodem. 
These modifications are applied at 
system startup time via an external 
procedure SYSGEN hosted by the 
program "startup". 

The procedure SYSGEN (see listing 
4) first enables writing the BIOS. 
Then it modifies the routine located 
at RINIT so that a JMP to location 
ICOM is made. In the unmodified 
BIOS, RINIT is the name of a routine 
for initializing the remote device: it 
first determines what type of card is 
in slot 2; after finding a communica- 
tions card it jumps to ICOM to in- 
itialize the card. Under these modifi- 
cations, control is transferred to 
ICOM immediately. SYSGEN next 
modifies RWRITE, the "write-to-re- 
mote" routine, and WCOM, the 
"write-to-comm-card" routine. Simi- 
lar to the unmodified initialization 
routines, the interpreter passes con- 
trol to RWRITE, which determines 
the type of card occupying slot 2. 




DIGITAL 

SPEECH 
is now a 
way street. 

p(Jt/Output Speech Digitizer. Permits talking 
p'rograms. I/O capability allows interactive 
teaching programs and speech-prompted data 
input formats. Use output for speech directed 
activities in business systems, announcements 
in a control-room, or sound effects in entertain- 
ment programs. Easy to use because input as 
well as output is under user control with special 
software operating system. 
Available at Apple Dealers worldwide. 



ma 





mntain Computer 

I ncorporatkd" 

300 Harvey West Blvd., Santa Cruz, CA 95060 
(408) 429-8600 TWX 910 598-4504 



Upon finding a communications card, 
it transfers control to WCOM. 
SYSGEN closes with modifications to 
RREAD and RCOM. 

One can implement the modifica- 
tions, as I have, in a program that is 
executed each time the system is 
booted up. First assemble SYSGEN, 
then link it to a Pascal host "startup", 
and then store the final code in the file 
SYSTEM. STARTUP on the boot 
disk. The program will be executed 
automatically at boot time. 

A Test Program 

The program "testmodem" tests the 
modem and the BIOS modifications. 
It starts by opening the files "remin" 
and "remout" and associating them 
with the volumes "remin:" and 
"remout:" respectively. The latter are 
the names given to remote I/O de- 
vices under Apple UCSD Pascal. 
Following this procedure, the pro- 
gram sets up some strings to prompt 
the operator, and the nested 
FOR... DO loops put the modem 
through its various operating modes. 

When the statement "write 
(remout, chout);" is encountered, the 
interpreter determines that a call for 
output to slot 2 is being made. At this 
time control is transferred to the 
BIOS location RWRITE. In order for 
execution to proceed satisfactorily 
from there, the system must recognize 
the card in slot 2. The situation is 
similar for the statement "read 
(remin, chin);". Thus, the program 
serves as a test of the BIOS modifica- 
tions as well as the modem. 

Summary 

The library unit "micromodem" 
and the BIOS modifications presented 
here are a complete package of 
building blocks for developing 
remote communications programs us- 
ing the Micromodem running under 
the Apple implementation of UCSD 
Pascal. Techniques similar to those 
described here should enable 
operators of other systems to enjoy 
the same advantages. ■ 



References 

1. Grogono, P. Programming in Pascal. 
Addison-Wesley, 1978. 

2. Hyde, D J. Micromodem II Owner's 
Manual, 2nd edition. Norcross GA: Hayes 
Microcomputer Products Inc, May 1979. 

3. "The Preliminary Apple Pascal Guide to 
Interfacing Foreign Hardware." Cupertino 
CA: Apple Computer Co, Dec 1979. 

4. UCSD Pascal User's Manual. San Diego 
CA: SofTech Microsystems, 1978. 



136 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 88 on inquiry card. 



Circle 89 on inquiry card. 




LOBO'S NEW LDOS 

Puts muscle in your 

TRS-80* 



LOBO DRIVES' new LDOS™ 
Disk Operating System is loaded 
with outstanding features that will enable you 
to realize the full power and potential of your 
TRS-80r With LDOS, you can support up to 
eight drives (5 1 /4 and 8-inch drives, double-sided 
drives, double-density drives, 80-track drives), 
including the new 8-inch and 5 1 /t-inch 
Winchester fixed disk drives, in any 
combination. 

Other LDOS muscle building features 
include: ISAM accessing techniques; keyboard 
typeahead; Graphic string packer; Dated files, 
Marked files; File transfer by class; Built-in 

•TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Radio Shack, a Tandy Company. 



drii/esr^ 



I 



INTERNATIONAL 



LOBO DRIVES, INT'L 
354 South Fairview Ave. 
Goleta, CA 931 1 7 
(805) 683-1 576 



lower case display drivers; 
Non-breakable AUTO and DO 
commands, and many, many more. 

LDOS is the perfect operating system to 
use with your LOBO DRIVES LX-50 or LX-80 
expansion interface and disk drive 
subsystems. There's even an 800 number 
for instant service. To find out how you can 
put more muscle into your TRS-80, contact 
your nearest LOBO Drives dealer or call or 
write. ~7~, 

LDOS is available: 

A. Operating System Diskette 
with Master Reference 
Manual 
$139 

B. Master Reference Manual ' 
Only 
$25 




Circle 90 on inquiry card. 




8" DISK CONTROLLER 

NOW- DOUBLE SIDED OPTION! 

• DOUBLES APPLE ][ STORAGE 

• APPLE DOS COMPATIBLE 

• SHUGART 800 OR 850 COMPATIBLE 

• IBM 3740 DATA ENTRY CAPABILITY 

• CP/M, UCSD PASCAL CAPABILITY 
Available at your local APPLE Dealer: $400. 



SORRENTO VALLEY ASSOCIATES 

11722 SORRENTO VALLEY RD. 
SAN DIEGO, CA 92121 




FEBRUARY 




ALL ITHACA 

INTERSYSTEMS 

HARDWARE 



20 



% 

OFF 
LIST 



We carry the largest variety of S-100 products in theworld. For a special cash 
price please call. 

For our 1981 Catalog, please write 

Subject to available quantities. Shipping and insurance extra. VISA and 
Master Charge accepted at no additional charge lor orders over $500.00. 



S-IDD,inc. 

7 White Place 
Clark, N.J. 07066 TQ1 
201-382-1318 






Hours: Mon. - Fri. — 10 a.m. to 6 p.m. 



Technical Forum 



Recording with Current 
Instead of Voltage 



David Hein 
2821 Chariot Lane 
Garland TX 75042 

Most of the articles I have seen on the theory of mass 
storage using cassettes begin with a discussion of how the 
magnetization of the tape depends on current flow, and 
how changing the head-drive current creates cells of dif- 
ferent magnetization. During a read, it is normally as- 
sumed that the sharper the transitions between current 
and lack of current, the higher the output and the greater 
the density (or speed) that can be used. 

Yet after all this discussion on current, head drive is 
most often performed by a voltage amplifier driven to 
saturation. Current devices should be driven with current 
rather than voltage. 

The circuit I use for this is simple. It consists of two 
current drivers, some control gates for writing, an RS 
flip-flop for reading, and an amplifier with a gain of 200, 
capacitively coupled to a differential sense amplifier (see 
figure 1 on page 140). 

Four channels along with voltage amplifiers easily fit 
on a two-sided, 4- by 6-inch card with standard 22-pin 
connectors (see photo 1). That's enough circuitry for two 
tracks each on twin transports. 

My tape deck, which has digital (narrow-gap) heads is 
capable of 8 K bps (bits per second) at 5 ips (inches per 
second). My neighbor's standard cassette deck is capable 
of 2400 bps at 1% ips. ■ 




Photo 1: Finished version of the circuit shown in figure 1. This 
4- by 6-inch board with 22-pin connector has enough room for 
the circuitry of two tracks each on dual recorders. 



138 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 91 on inquiry card. 



Thinking of Data Base 
for Your Micro? 



Check these results from MDBS: 

Leonard Overton, President of LS Business 
Systems, reports: 

"The MDBS data base system is now the 
foundation for our future application 
products. This is because MDBS helps us to 
produce more flexible applications. . . 
quicker. System design changes are made 
easily. Time required for loading and 
debugging is greatly reduced." 




Check these features and support: 

•MDBS is more complete — 

j Network and hierarchical data 
structures 

J Non-procedural query language 

J Host language support including: 
BASIC, COBOL, FORTRAN, 
PASCAL, PL/I 

■j Data base recovery 

v/Data base restructure utility 

</ Available for popular Z-80, 8080, 
6502, 8086 and Z-8000 based systems 



• MDBS has complete documentation- 

■J DBMS Guide and Primer for 
fundamentals 

yMDBS systems documentation 

• MDBS has complete service and 
support, including — 

•j System updates and enhancements 

/Training 

J Phone consultation 

-/ Newsletter 



So if you're thinking of data base, check with us. 

Use the coupon below. . .or better yet, give us a call today. 



Setting standards of excellence (or data base 
software. . .worldwide. 



Micro 
Data Base 
Systems, inc. 

Market Square, Box 248 
Lafayette, Indiana 47902 
317-448-1616 

Dealer/distributor/OEM inquiries invited. 



YES, please send me more information on the 
remarkably flexible MDBS Data Base System. 




Name 



(Please print) 



Title 



Company 
Address _ 
City 



(State) 



(Zip) 



Phone 



MAIL TO: Micro Data Base Systems, Inc. 
Dept. B 
P. O. Box 248 
Lafayette, IN 47902 



Circle 92 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 139 




lA m 



ia |6 



Figure 1: /4 circuit for driving record heads with current rather than voltage. This simple circuit enables data transfer rates of up to 
2400 bps (bits per second) on a standard cassette tape recorder. 



140 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 




anew 






is Dor n! 











a better computer system 
any way you look at it. 



The facts speak for themselves. The QUAY 500 SERIES 
offers more for the money than North Star Horizon® 
computers. 

MORE TECHNICAL FEATURES. A single board computer in- 
stead of a backplane with multiple boards, means fewer parts, 
fewer interconnections and fewer problems □ additional disk 
capacity for more program storage □ DMA controlled disk 
transfers for increased system performance o on-board expan- 
sion capabilities for additional parallel and serial ports, and 
EPROM □ AC convenience outlets □ a more compact design. 
IMMEDIATE DELIVERY. The 500 SERIES is available off the 
shelf for virtually immediate delivery. No waiting for far off de- 
livery dates for this one. 

LOWER PRICE. The advanced technology engineered into 
Quay computers actually lowers our cost to manufacture. 
The price of the 500 SERIES is about 20% lower than the 

Horizon-2-32K-D — and 
our 520 SERIES also offers 
significant savings over the 
Horizon-2-32K-Q. 
The bottom line is simple. 
There is a new star in the 
computer field. The 500 
SERIES by Quay. It out- 
shines all of the competi- 
tion. 



COMPARE FOR YOURSELF: 




SPECIFICATION 


QUAY 500 


HORIZON-2-32K-D 


Architecture 


Single Board 


S100 bus 


CPU 


Z80A, 4MHz. 


Same 


Dynamic RAM(std) 


64Kb. 


32Kb. 


Disk drive type 


Doubledensity 


Same 


No. of drives (std/max) 


2/4 


Same 


Capacity per drive (on-line) 


200 Kb. 


180 Kb. 


Direct Memory Access (DMA) 


Yes 


No 


CP/M® disk operating system 


Standard 


Optional 


Unit Price 


$2,995. 


$3,095. 



Advanced single board modular design. 



SPECIFICATIONS 


QUAY 520 


HORIZON-2-32K-Q 


Disk drive type 


Quad density 


Same 


Capacity per drive (on-line) 


400 Kb. 


360 Kb. 


Unit Price 


$3,495. 


$3,595. 



The QUAY 500 offers technical superiority — availability — a $2,500 price! 



CP/M ^ is a registered trademark ol Digital Research 

Horizon is a registered trademark ol North Star Computers, Inc. 

ouAa 



CORPORATION 

P.O. Box 386, Freehold, New Jersey 07728 ■ (201) 681-8700 
Factory: Route 34, Wall Township, New Jersey 07719 

DISTRIBUTOR AND REPRESENTATIVE INQUIRIES WELCOME 



Circle 93 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 141 



Dynamic Memory: 
Making an Intelligent Decision 



Larry Malakoff 

Measurement Systems and Controls 

867 N Main St 

Orange CA 92668 



Mention the words dynamic 
memory to an S-100 bus user and the 
responses will vary from one end of 
the spectrum to the other. In the early 
days of the S-100 bus, many users 
had bad experiences with poorly 
designed dynamic-memory boards. 
The problems varied from inadequate 
memory refreshing to designs that 
worked with only a particular pro- 
cessor board. However, things have 
come a long way since then. For the 
vast majority of today's applications, 
dynamic memory offers the best 
cost/performance ratio available. 
With so many of the large S-100 com- 
puter manufacturers such as 
Cromemco, North Star, Vector 
Graphic, and others using dynamic 
memory in their systems, all users 
should seriously consider the advan- 
tages of including dynamic memory 
in their next system design. 

Dynamic vs Static 

In the S-100 world, static memory 
is the alternative to dynamic 
memory. When comparing the two 
types, three major advantages of 
dynamic memory are apparent. First, 
dynamic boards contain more 
memory than static boards. Even 
with the supporting control logic that 
dynamic memory requires, today's 
largest available S-100 memory- 
board sizes are 64 K bytes for 



About the Author 

Larry Malakoff is the Marketing Director of 
Measurement Systems and Controls Inc, 
located in Orange, California. He has been in- 
volved in the design of 5-100 dynamic-memory 
boards and is currently working with 
customers to solve their application re- 
quirements for system memory. Larry received 
his Master of Science in Engineering from 
UCLA and has been involved in electronic 
design for over eight years. 



dynamic memory and 32 K bytes for 
static memory. For those systems that 
require large amounts of memory, 
such as the Cromemco and Alpha 
Micro multi-user systems, the in- 
creased density of dynamic memory 
can mean the difference between hav- 
ing enough available slots on the 
motherboard for all the cards 
necessary to complete the system or 
not being able to fit all of the required 
cards into a given chassis. 

The second and probably most im- 
portant advantage of dynamic 
memory is the low level of power 
dissipated. This not only reduces the 
amount of heat generated, but also 
reduces the current requirements 
from the power supply. A typical 
64 K-byte dynamic-memory board 
dissipates approximately 8 watts of 
total power compared to as much as 
50 watts for 64 K bytes of static 
memory. This decrease in power 
dissipation of more than sixfold can 
make a big difference in the reliability 
of the entire system. This is especially 
true when the system contains more 
than 64 K bytes of memory, as in a 
multi-user application. Since the 
reliability factor for electronic equip- 
ment decreases exponentially as the 
operating temperature increases, the 
mean time between failures can be 
drastically improved by using 
dynamic memories in the larger 
memory-intensive systems. 

The third major advantage of 
dynamic memory is cost. Historical- 
ly, its cost has always been lower, 
and this will continue to be so due to 
the increased density of dynamic- 
memory circuits. Once an integrated- 
circuit manufacturer has regained the 
initial development investment 
(assuming the yields are about equal), 
the price for higher-density dynamic- 
memory circuits can be about the 



same as for lower-density static- 
memory devices. Since it takes sixty- 
four of the 4 K-by-1-bit static- 
memory devices to build a 32 K-byte 
memory board as compared to thirty- 
two of the 16 K-by-1-bit dynamic- 
memory circuits to build a 64 K-byte 
dynamic-memory board, it becomes 
apparent, even when the control logic 
is taken into account, that a dynamic- 
memory board costs less to build than 
the corresponding static-memory 
board. 

In comparing the two types of 
memory, there is one application 
where static memory may be a better 
choice. Not all types of DMA (direct 
memory access) controllers will cor- 
rectly interface with all types of 
dynamic-memory boards. Depending 
on the particular DMA controller, 
static memory may be the only type 
that will work correctly. More will be 
said about this later. 

Memory Features to Look For 

Now that the general merits of 
dynamic-memory boards have been 
brought to light, it is important to 
discuss some of the differences be- 
tween the commercially available 
designs, and what features in par- 
ticular to look for when choosing a 
dynamic-memory board for your 
system. This discussion will be 
separated into two application areas 
— those requiring a maximum of 
64 K bytes of memory and those re- 
quiring more than 64 K bytes of 
memory (for multi-user and 
multitasking applications incor- 
porating software-controlled, bank- 
selectable memory). 

Many manufacturers make only 
one memory-board product that tries 
to bridge the gap between the two 
types of applications. However, these 
two applications require that the 



142 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



r hen you pick a Daisy. 
Pick Vista's V300 Printer 




Vi/ta 






Computer Company 






$1 895. 



There are Daisies!. . . And, There are Daisies!. . . But Vista has a Peach! 

The Vista V300 is exactly that, a "peach" of a daisy wheel printer both from the standpoint of price 
and performance. 

Think of it, a printer at nearly half the price (when compared to models even remotely competitive in 
quality) combined with the ultimate in reliability, print quality, and flexibility. 

Typical Comments: "Superb print quality!", "Highly reliable.", "Definitely letter quality. . . I can't 
believe the price tag.", "Best use I've seen yet of LSI Technology." 

But judge for yourself — look at the V300 features and keep in mind this is a letter quality printer at 
dot matrix prices. 

• Tractor option available 

• Print Speed — 25 CPS (Optional 45 CPS for $2,195) 

• Print Wheel — Industry standard 96-character Daisy Wheel 
(including the extended-life dual plastic wheels) 

• Service — Prompt maintenance/service agreements avail- 
able nationwide 

• Interface — Industry standard parallel (RS232-C optional) 

• Printable Columns — 136 

• Warranty — 90 days parts and labor, one year parts only 

• Proportional, bi-directional printing • Programmable VFU 

• Extensive self-test functions • Hardware and software 
compatible 

Vista does it again! Quality, Price and Perfor- 
mance with a peach of a daisy wheel printer. 



nsff 



IMMEDIATE DELIVERY 

For Further Information 
Call Toll Free (800) 854-8017 



AND, Vista Has a Complete V100 Word Pro- 
cessing System for Only $4995! 

The Vista V100 is a complete word process- 
ing system that includes: 



Exidy Sorcerer 

Computer, 48K 

V200E20 Disc Drive 

System, Double 

Density 

Sanyo Data Display 

Monitor 



Vista V300 Printer 

Full Character Daisy 

Wheel 

Wordstar, CPM 1.4 

(Includes E Basic) 

Can also be used for 

Data Processing 



The Vista Computer Company 1401 Borchard Street* Santa Ana, California 92705" 

™CPM Is a trademark of Digital Research 



714/953-0523 



Circle 94 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 143 



memory used have different features, 
often resulting in a compromise 
where one or both of the application 
areas lacks the necessary hardware 
for a truly cost-effective solution. 

Single-User Features 

In a single-user system that requires 
64 K bytes or less of memory, the 
most important feature to have is the 
ability to deselect memory in as small 
an increment as possible. For the ma- 
jority of 64 K-byte dynamic-memory 
boards that offer this feature, 4 K 
bytes is usually the smallest block of 
memory that can be turned off. 

la 



(Some of the older 16 K-byte 
memory boards allow deselection to 
1 K bytes.) This feature is necessary 
to allow the system monitor in read- 
only memory and memory-mapped 
controller cards to reside in the 
memory-address space without in- 
terfering with normal memory opera- 
tions. 

Another useful feature is the ability 
to buy a memory board in either a 16, 
32, 48, or 64 K-byte size, with those 
boards containing less than 64 K 
bytes able to be expanded to 64 K 
bytes by inserting the necessary in- 
tegrated circuits into empty sockets. 




Photo 1: Different kinds of memory boards. These two 64 K-byte memory boards have 
fundamental differences that tailor them for specific types of systems. The Measurement 
Systems and Controls DMB6400 (photo la) is intended for multi-user and multitasking 
systems and provides a bank-select feature so that memory addresses may be shared by 
users. The DM6400 (photo lb) is produced specifically for single-user systems and has a 
deselect feature that allows memory-mapped peripherals to occupy any 4 K address 
block. Both boards are manufactured by Measurement Systems and Controls of 
Orange, California. Prices are $1195 and $895 respectively. 



This gives the small user the ability to 
expand as necessary. It is important 
that the manufacturer test these 
boards as full 64 K-byte boards even 
though they may be sold as 
16 K-byte boards. This is the only 
way the end user can be assured that 
the board will work when the extra 
devices are plugged in to increase the 
memory size. 

Multi-User Features 

Most multi-user and multitasking 
S-100 systems require bank-selectable 
memory boards. The requirements 
placed on the memory board for these 
applications are quite different from 
those placed on the single-user ap- 
plications. A typical multi-user 
system might have an operating 
system of 48 K bytes and five user 
banks of 16 K bytes each. The 
operating system might occupy the 
upper 48 K-byte address space and 
be on all the time, while the five users 
might share the lower 16 K-byte ad- 
dress space. Only one user can be on 
at a time (there can never be more 
than 64 K bytes of memory on at any 
one time), but the operating system 
allows all five users to access the com- 
puter on a rotating timeshared basis. 
Through software control, each of 
the 16 K-byte banks of memory is 
turned on or off as required. This is 
usually accomplished by doing an 
OUT instruction to a particular I/O 
(input/output) port that the memory 
board is set to decode. The data on 
the bus then determines which banks 
are to be on or off. 

A 64 K-byte dynamic-memory 
board optimized for this type of ap- 
plication would allow the user to im- 
plement the above example with only 
two memory boards. Other 
64 K-byte dynamic-memory boards 
that compromise on the hardware 
design would require one 48 K-byte 
memory board and five 16 K-byte 
memory boards. In this case, the 
number of motherboard slots re- 
quired increases, the total power 
dissipation increases, and the total 
cost of memory increases. 

The difference between the two 
memory boards in the above example 
is in how the 64 K bytes of memory 
are partitioned into software- 
selectable banks. The optimal design, 
considering the limitations of board 
"real estate," is to have four totally 
independent 16 K-byte banks of 
memory. This allows the user to have 



144 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 95 on inquiry card. 



Multi-User 



UniFLEX is the first full capability multi-user 
operating system available for microprocessors. 
Designed for the 6809 and 68000, it offers its 
users a very friendly computing environment. 
After a user 'logs-in' with his user name and 
password, any of the system programs may be 
run at will. One user may run the text editor 
while another runs BASIC and still another runs 
the C compiler. Each user operates in his own 
system environment, unaware of other user 
activity. The total number of users is only 
restricted by the resources and efficiency of the 
hardware in use. 



The design of UniFLEX, with its hierarchical file 
system and device independent I/O, allows the 
creation of a variety of complex support 
programs. There is currently a wide variety of 
software available and under development. 
Included in this list is a Text Processing System 
for word processing functions, BASIC interpreter 
and precompiler for general programming and 
educational use, native C and Pascal 
compilers for more advanced programming, 
sort/merge for business applications, and a 
variety of debug packages. The standard 
system includes a text editor, assembler, and 
about forty utility programs. UniFLEX for 6809 is 
sold with a single CPU license and one years 
maintenance for $450.00. Additional yearly 
maintenance is available for $100.00. OEM 
licenses are also available. 



FLEX 



TM 



Multi-Tasking 

UniFLEX is a true multi-tasking operating system. 
Not only may several users run different 
programs, but one user may run several 
programs at a time. For example, a 
compilation of one file could be initiated while 
simultaneously making changes to another file 
using the text editor. New tasks are generated 
in the system by the 'fork 1 operation. Tasks may 
be run in the background or 'locked' in main 
memory to assist critical response times. Inter- 
task communication is also supported through 
the 'pipe' mechanism. 



UniFLEX is offered for the advanced 
microprocessor systems. FLEX, the industry 
standard for 6800 and 6809 systems, is offered 
for smaller, single user systems. A full line of FLEX 
support software and OEM licenses are also 
available. 



Box 2570, West Lafayette, IN 47906 
(317) 463-2502 Telex 276143 

'"UniFLEX and FLEX are trademarks of Technical 
Systems Consultants, Inc. 



bank sizes that are any multiple of 
16 K, such as four 16 K-byte banks 
or two 32 K-byte banks or one 
16 K-byte bank and one 48 K-byte 
bank, etc, all of which are software 
selectable. In addition, the four banks 
should be independently addressable 
on the four 16 K boundaries: hexa- 
decimal 0000, 4000, 8000, and C000. 
A much more simplistic approach is 
to bank-select the entire memory 
board, the bank size then being deter- 
mined by the size of the memory on 
the board. 

Other important features that a 
bank-selectable memory board 



should have include the ability to 
decode any of the possible 256 I/O 
port addresses and have up to eight 
banks of memory for each port ad- 
dress. In addition, the user should be 
able to turn on or off any of the 
switchable banks when a system reset 
occurs. One last feature, which can 
be very valuable when troubleshoot- 
ing a system with more than one 
64 K-byte bank-selectable memory 
board, is an LED (light-emitting 
diode) indicator for each bank of 
memory that is being accessed. The 
flashing pattern of the LEDs can in- 
dicate where a problem is. 



Waiting On Delivery 
of ADECLA120? 



Avoid the hassle by upgrading your LA36 for 1200 
baud operation with a DS120 Terminal Controller. 

The Datasouth DS120 gives your DECwriter® II the high speed 
printing and versatile performance features of the DECwriter® III 
at only a fraction of the cost. The DS120 is a plug compatible 
replacement for your LA36 logic board which can be installed in 
minutes. Standard features include: 

•RS232 interface 



• 165 cps bidirectional printing 
•Horizontal & Vertical Tabs 
•Page Length Selection 
•110-4800 baud operation 
•1000 character print buffer 
•X-on, X-off protocol 
•Self Test 



•20 mA Current Loop interface 

•Top of Form 

•Adjustable Margins 

•Double wide characters 

•Parity selection 

•Optional APL character set 



t i b-S J» *•§# 



Over 4000 DS120 units are now being used by customers ranging 
from the Fortune 500 to personal computing enthusiasts. In 
numerous installations, entire networks of terminals have been 
upgraded to take advantage of to- 
day's higher speed data com-_ 
munications services. LSI 
microprocessor electronics 
and strict quality control 
ensure dependable per- 
formance for years to 
come. When service is 
required, we will respond 
promptly and effectively. 
Best of all, we can deliver 
immediately through our 
nationwide network of 
distributors. Just give us a 
call for all the details. 

DATASOUTH COMPUTER CORPORATION 

4740 Dwight Evans Road • Charlotte, North Carolina 2S210 • 704(5236500 




jjgUiffij^M^Q 1 



One last word on bank-selectable 
memory is that a well-designed board 
will allow the user to work correctly 
with the slightly different approaches 
taken by the main manufacturers of 
multi-user systems: Alpha Micro, 
Cromemco, North Star, and Digital 
Research. (Digital Research only sup- 
plies the multi-user operating system, 
MP/M.) 

Common Features 

There are several other important 
features that are common to both 
single-user- and multi-user-optimized 
memory boards that the system 
designer should look for. The most 
important feature is the ability of the 
memory board to work with as many 
different processor boards as possi- 
ble. This includes the standard 
8080A-, Z80A-, and 8085-based 
boards, as well as the more advanced 
16-bit machines (such as Alpha Micro 
and Marinchip's M9900). 

This would not seem to be a major 
problem since all products manufac- 
tured for the S-100 bus should work 
with one another. However, in the 
real world this is not always the case. 
The S-100 bus started with and was 
defined around the 8080 microproces- 
sor. As other microprocessors made 
their way onto the S-100 bus, they 
had to emulate the timing of the 8080. 
Each company came up with its own 
version for this timing. As a result, it 
is difficult to find two Z80A boards 
that generate their S-100 signals alike. 

This creates a challenge to the 
dynamic-memory board manufac- 
turers to come up with a flexible 
internal-timing scheme that allows 
the memory-timing circuits to adjust 
to the differences in the processor 
boards. The best way to achieve this 
is to use a minimum number of the 
S-100 bus-timing signals and, if at all 
possible, to avoid the use of the 
pSYNC signal. This one signal has 
created more problems than any 
other due to the many different 
processor-board designs manufac- 
turers have come up with. The best 
designed dynamic-memory boards 
will correctly interface with the vast 
majority of the different board types 
available today, but no single 
dynamic-memory board can claim to 
work with them all. 

Most of today's dynamic-memory 
boards use transparent (or invisible) 
refresh. A window in the processor 
timing is found where the memory 



146 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 96 on inquiry card. 



MICROBYTE INTRODUCES 

PROFIT FOR YOUR BOTTOM LINE 




4 PORT I/O 

•Quad RS-232C Serial Ports, One 20mA Current Loop Port 

• Fully IEEE S-100 Bus Compatible 

•Asynchronous Communications with Z80A-Dart(TM) or 

Synchronous Communications with Z80A-SIO/0(TM) 
•Full Set of Modem Control Signals, including Rl (Ring Indicator) 
•Easily Configurable to Any Type of Terminal Interface 
•I/O Servicing Environments: (1) Polled; (2) Bus Vector; 

(3)Z80 Mode 2 Vector 

•Off-Board Interrupt Daisy Chain Capability 
•Special Receive Conditions: (1) Framing Error; (2) Parity 

Error; (3) Receiver Overrun Error 

•Baud Rates Selected Individually from 50 Baud to 300K Baud 
•72 Hour Burn-In 




imimimiiiiiiiiiiHiiiiimiimmmigmii 



Z-80A/I-0 

•A complete single board Z-80A CPU with serial/parallel interface 
•Fully compatible with the proposed IEEE S-100 Bus Standard 
•Z-80A CPU (4MHz version of the Z-80) 
•158 instructions— superset of and upward compatible from the 

8080's 78 instructions 
•Up to 4K of on board Eprom with optional Z-80 monitor program — 

1K(2708), 2K(2716) or 4K(2732) 
•Full vectored interrupt capability 
•2MHz or 4MHz operation is jumper selectable 
•Selectable auto-wait state insertion for extending M1", MREQ*, 

IORQ* and/or on board ROM 
•Dual RS-232 serial I/O ports using the Z80A-DART with individual 

baud rate selection (16 baud rates from 50-19,200 baud) 
•Up to 24 bit parallel I/O port— fully programmable Intel 8255A 
•Up to 8 separate counter/timers using 2 Z-80A CTC 
i n 

MICROBYTE 

1198 E. Willow St., Signal Hill, CA 90806 • (213) 595-8571 

D Please send me information on becoming a 
Microbyte dealer. 



I 



. DPIease send info on the Microbyte 

I 

I 

I Name 



Address. 
City 




DISK CONTROLLER 

•DMA to within 16M byte of memory 

•State-of-the-art NEC765 LSI Controller 

•IEEE-S100 compatible 

•DMA arbitration allows use of multiple boards within a system 

•PLL data recovery for totally reliable operation 

•Write pre-comp switched at mid-disc for reliable double density 

operation 

•Supports up to four (4) drives 
•Power On, Power Off or Reset deselects drives to avoid 

damaging files 

•Drive deselect Time Out, deselect drives not in use 
•Single or double sided operation 
•Single density/double density operation 
•8" standard drives 
•Separate Vcc supply for data recovery to eliminate possible noise 

problems 




.State. 



Zip. 



i 



64K DYNAMIC RAM BOARD 

•Fully S-100 bus compatible/Alpha Micro compatible 

•64K x 8 bit dynamic RAM 

•Low power: + 8VDC @ 700 ma 

4- 16VDC @ 100 ma 

- 16VDC @ 25 ma 
•Built-in-parity with LED indicator and vector interrupt 
•Memory addressable in four 16K banks 
•Hidden refresh 

•Gold contacts for high reliability 
•72-hour Burn-in 

•Memory mapped via DIP switch 
•Built-in programmable write-protect 
•Programmable control port for parity and bank control 



It takes more than an initial low price to make 
an S-100 board a profit generator for a dealer. It 
takes a total value cluster from the manufac- 
turer — a value cluster that includes: 

• Products • 

• Price * 

• Quality • 

• Pre-sale Service • 

• Post-sale Service • 

• Commitment • 
MICROBYTE has the products — from memory 
boards to complete S-100 systems, and weoffer 
the rest of the value cluster — call today for the 
whole story on how you can become a Micro- 
byte dealer. 



Circle 97 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 147 



read and write operations are not be- 
ing executed, thus allowing a refresh 
operation to take place without re- 
quiring the processor to wait. The 
result is that the system is not slowed 
down by the necessary refresh cycles. 
A different type of ref resh must be 
done whenever the RESET or 
pWAIT (S-100 bus) signals are active 
for any extended period of time (more 
than several tens of microseconds). 
These conditions occur whenever the 
system-reset switch is activated or 
whenever a disk access to certain disk 
controllers is being performed using a 
programmed I/O interface. Either of 
these conditions stops the processor- 



generated timing that is required by 
the memory board for transparent 
refresh. Thus, the occurrence of 
either of these conditions must cause 
the memory board to enter an 
automatic refresh mode that con- 
tinues until the processor again starts 
its generation of the timing signals. 

Another feature that most memory 
boards incor porate is the use of the 
PHANTOM signal from the S-100 
bus. This allows read-only memory 
on the disk controller or other board 
to overlay the system programmable 
memory to load an initial program 
from disk. 

Other features to look for include 



input filters on the address and con- 
trol lines followed by Schmitt- 
triggered input gates. This minimizes 
the false starting of memory cycles 
due to noise on the bus signals. Good 
logic design also dictates the use of 
clocked-logic or precision-delay lines 
for the generation of internal- 
memory timing, but under no cir- 
cumstances should RC (resistor/ 
capacitor network) circuits be used 
between logic gates to generate 
delays. Products using this technique 
are unstable under many operating 
and manufacturing conditions and 
can only cause eventual trouble. 
One other important requirement 



INTRODUCING 24-HOUR 




When you need a program and you need it 
II The Software Express Service. 




WEsnco 











Where can you 
get the most- 
wanted micro- 
computer pro- 
grams? How can 
you tell which ones are best for 
you? How can you get instant 
service on programs for word 
processing, accounting, budget- 
ing, engineering, inventory con- 
trol, patient management. . . and 
more? 



You can place an order right now. 
Simply dial-up Westico's 24-hour 
computer (300 baud). Ask for a 
quick review of program de- 
scriptions and place your order 
immediately. 

We're a new, high speed 
service staffed with technical ex- 
perts who can provide programs 
for individuals and companies 
who are serious about the busi- 
ness of microcomputing. After 
you've acquired your program, 
our technical service and sup- 
port team will remain just a 
phone call away. 



searching for programs and still 
not find the one that's right for 
your particular needs. Or, you can 
order the perfect program from 
The Software Express Service. 
We've tried and tested hundreds 
of programs. We have what will 
work for you — whether you're a 
doctor, lawyer, accountant, engi- 
neer, scientist, surveyor, store 
owner, manufacturer, dealer, con- 
sultant or programmer. 



Take advantage of Westico's 24- 
Hour Software Express Service to 
any town or city covered by Fed- 
eral Express, U.S. Express Mail, or 
other 24-hour delivery service. 
Simply dial-up our computer, call 
us or send a Telex and your pro- 
gram will be sped to you over- 
night. For regular service, you'll 
receive your program promptly 
by UPS. In the age of the com- 
puter, it shouldn't take ages to 






get what you want. 



WESTICO 



You could lose valuable time 



The Software Express Service 

25 Van Zant Street ■ Nonualk, Connecticut 06855 
(203) 853-6880 






of dynamic-memory boards is good 
documentation. This should include 
board set-up documentation, detailed 
theory of operation, schematics, tim- 
ing diagrams for the different 
processor-board types, a parts list, a 
board-layout drawing, and applica- 
tions notes. 

Finally, the dynamic-memory 
board should be backed up by the 
manufacturer through both guarantee 
and applications support. Several of 
the available memory boards come 
with a full one-year guarantee. The 
manufacturer should also be able to 
support the product with the 
necessary applications information to 



determine if it will work in your par- 
ticular system. 

Limitations of Dynamic Memories 

Although dynamic memory usual- 
ly represents the best cost /perfor- 
mance ratio, there are several limita- 
tions that may prevent it from func- 
tioning correctly. The system 
designer should investigate these 
cases with the memory-board 
manufacturer before deciding to use a 
product. 

It should be apparent from the 
above discussion that not all 
dynamic-memory boards will work 
with all processor boards. Only the 



manufacturer can tell you if the 
memory board has been tested with 
the particular processor board you 
are planning to use. 

Another troublesome area is in in- 
terfacing with DMA controllers. 
Generally, the problems arise from 
two different sources. First, the actual 
timing required from the DMA con- 
troller will vary depending on the 
particular memory board used. Not 
all memory boards use the same 
S-100 bus signals, thus complicating 
the DMA interface. If this timing is 
not compatible, then the memory 
read or write cycles will not function 
correctly. 



SOFTWARE EXPRESS SERVIC 



CP/M J " programs tor TRS-80 Model II, Vector Graphic, iCom, Cromemco, North Star, Mlcropolls, Ohio Scientific and more. 






Ire- 
lone* menls 






GENERAL LEDGER Peachlree 
ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Peachlree 
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE Peachlree 
INVENTORY CONTROL Peachlree 
PAYROLL Peachlree 
CLIENT WRITE-UP Peachlree 
PAS-3 MEDICAL Artificial Int. 
PAS-3 DENTAL Artificial Int. 
PROPERTY MANAGEMENT Peachlree 



PTA Asyst Design 
ESQ-1 Legal Micro Info. 
ESQ-1 Legal Demo Micro Info. 
DATEBOOK Organic 



WORDMASTER MicroPro 
WORDSTAR MicroPro 
WORDSTAR MAIL-MERGE MicroPro 
WORDSEARCH Keybits 
TEXTWRITER Organic 



MINIMODEL Financial Plan. 
STATPAK NW Analytical 






ASCOM DMA 



CBS DMA 

MAGSAM IV Micro Appl. 
SELECTOR IV Micro Ap. Inc. 
PRISM/IMS Micro Appl. 



BASIC-80 Microsoft 
BASIC COMPILER Microsoft 
S-BASIC Micro Ap, Inc. 
NEVADA COBOL Ellis 
PL/l-80 Digital Research 
CBASIC Compiler Systems 
PASCAL/M Sorcim 
PASCAL/MT+ MT Microsystems 



$550 


$40 


A.D.I.L 


550 


40 


A,D,I,L 


550 


40 


A.D.I.L 


650 


40 


A,D,I,L 


550 


40 


A,D,I,L 


990 


40 


A.D.I.L 


500 


40 


A,C,I 


500 


40 


A.C.I 


990 


40 


A.D.I.L 


595 


40 


A, C.I 


1495 


50 


A.C.I.L 


75 


50 


A.C.I.L 


295 


25 


A.I.O 


145 


25 


A.K.L 


450 


40 


A.F.K.L 


575 


40 


A.F.K.L 


195 


40 


A.F 


125 


20 


A,F 


495 


50 


A.C.I.L 


500 


40 


A.D.I 



125 



10 



A.T 



395 


40 


A.F.K 


295 


25 


A.C.F.K 


395 


25 


A.C.G.K 


495 


55 


A.C.F.K 


325 


25 


A.F.L 


350 


25 


A.F.L 


295 


25 


A.F 


150 


25 


A 


500 


35 


B.F.L.P 


120 


15 


A 


175 


20 


A.G 


250 


30 


A 



SUPERSORT I MicroPro 
SURVEYOR Peachlree 



$225 
550 



$25 
40 



A.L 
A.D.I.L 



All software has specific requirements for proper operation such as computer 
type, equipment configuration and support software. 

Check the following codes for system requirements to be certain yoursystem 
will accept the software offered. 

(A) CP/M version 1.4 or higher. 

(B) CP/M version 2.0 or higher 

(C) CBASIC-2. 

(D) MBASIC version 4.51. 

(E) BASIC-80 version 5.0 or higher. 

(F) 48K memory or greater. 

(G) 56K memory or greater. 
(H) 64K memory 

(I) Business system: 48K memory. 200K dual disk drives, cursor address- 
able terminal, and 132 column printer. 
(K) Cursor addressable terminal. 
(L) signed license required for shipment. 
(O) specify 8080. Z80, or CDOS. 
(P) give CP/M serial number. 
(T) serial port and modem. 
(Z) Z80CPU. 



Choose any of 4 ways to order: 

• Write Westico, Inc., 25 Van Zant Street, Norwalk, CT 06855. 

• Call (203) 853-6880. 

• Telex 643-788. 

• Dial-up our 24-hour computer (300 baud) (203) 853-0816. 

Specify prepaid, COD., Master Charge, or VISA. (Please give credit card 
number and expiration date.) 

Specify disk format: North Star Single or Double. Micropolis Mod I or 
Mod II; 8" single density, or Ohio Scientific. 

Prices do not include shipping and COD. In CT add 7%% sales tax. 

'Manual price will be credited against later purchase ol software. 

CP/M is a trademark ol Digital Research 
280 is a trademark ol Zilog, Inc. 
PASCAL/M is a trademark of Sorcim 
PASCAL/MT+ is a trademark of MT Micro Systems 
PEACHTREE is a trademark ol Retail Sciences. Inc. 
S-BASIC is a trademark ot Topaz Computing 
SELECTOR IV is a trademark ol Micro-Ap. Inc. 

Copyright * 1981 Westico. Inc. 



Data Terminals Fast 
...from MICRON! AIL 




DIABLO 



630 



The Diablo Model 630 is a reliable, high quality, full- 
character serial printer (or anyone who is seeking superior 
print quality at a low cost. This is the first Diablo printer to 
offer complete interchangeability between metal and 
plastic print wheels. And the sophisticated and discerning 
user does not sacrifice printquality to obtainthis versatility. 
Every aspect of the Diablo 630 design has been focused on 
maintaining outstanding print quality. Terminals also 
have self-test extensive internal diagnostics and 
automatic bidirectional printing. 

$1,999.00 

Adjustable Forms Tractor — S200.00 



ANADEX 



DP-9500/9501 



The Anadex Models DP-9500 and DP-9501 Alphanumeric 
Line Printers are designed for all printer applications, 
including those requiring high density graphics. Standard 
features include three standard interfaces (RS 232C, Cen- 
tronics Parallel, and Current Loop), software selectable 
print sizes including compressed and expanded print, 
heavy-duty nine-wire printhead (permits true underlining 
and descending lower case letters), and fast bi-directional 
printing. The model 9501 oilers slightly higher graphics 
resolution and a slightly slower print speed than the model 
9500. 

$1,399.00 




PRINTERS 



C.RT/S 



TELEPRINTERS 



ANADEX 


DP9000 
T.I. 


$1299 


810/2 
DIABLO 


$1599 



TeleVideo 



912C 

920C 

950 

SOROC 



$ 725 
$ 795 
$ 995 



DEC 

LA 34 
LA34AA 

DIABLO 



$ 969 
$1099 



1640RO 
1650RO 



$2525 
$2675 



IGL120 
10.140 
IQ.135 



$ 689 
$1099 
$ 895 



1640KSR 
1650KSR 



$2830 
$2940 




TELETYPE 



43 



Quiet, compact and lightweight, this 30 character-per- 
second matrix teleprinter belongs wherever reliable 
performance and quality print-out are required— in the 
office, factory, classroom, or laboratory. Print quality is 
exceptionally crisp and easy to read. What makes the 
model 43 so outstanding is its total economy— it costs less to 
own because of reliable low-cost LSI (Large Scale Integra- 
tion) circuitry used to carry out functions rather than more 
expensive, less reliable mechanicalhardware.Buy now at 
this special price and beat the announced Teletype price 
increase. 



Price good throughMarch 3L 1981 



$989.00 



cMICRDMfl.L., 



MICROMAIL • BOX 3297 • SANTA ANA, CA 92703 
(714) 731-4338 



To Order: Send check to MICROMAIL. P.O. Box 3297, Santa Ana, C A 92703. Personal or company checks 
require two weeks to clear. Visa/MasterCard accepted. C.O.D. requires a 15% deposit. Handling: Add 3% to 
orders less than S750. 2% to orders S751 ■ S2.000. 1% to orders over S2.000. NOTE, Handling charges are 
waived on orders prepaid in advance by check. Shipping: We ship FREIGHT COLLECT via UPS or Motor 
Freight. Air and Expressdelivery is available. 



The second trouble area involves 
the correct refreshing of the memory. 
The majority of the dynamic-memory 
devices used today are the 4116-type, 
which require 128 refresh cycles every 
two milliseconds. This requirement is 
easily met when the processor con- 
trols the bus and the memory board 
uses transparent refresh. However, 
when the DMA controller takes over 
the bus, most memory boards will 
cease to do refresh cycles. If the DMA 
controller has access to the bus for a 
small number of byte transfers, this 
does not present a problem. 

A problem may exist, however, 
when the DMA controller does a 
burst sector or track transfer. This 
may prevent refresh from occurring 
for too long a time interval, causing 
the memory to lose data. Some DMA 
controllers, particularly hard-disk 
controllers, avoid this problem by 
doing the DMA transfer to an on- 
board sector buffer consisting of 
static memory. Memory or I/O move 
instructions are then used to transfer 
the data in this memory to the system 
memory. Again, it is important to 
check with the memory-board 
manufacturer for compatibility with 
the DMA controller you plan on us- 
ing. 

One last area of concern involves 
interfacing with a front-panel type of 
system. Extra circuitry is required for 
a dynamic-memory board to correct- 
ly work with the front-panel func- 
tions such as examine, deposit, and 
run. Many memory-board manufac- 
turers do not include this necessary 
circuitry so that they may add other 
functions that they think are more 
valuable in their intended 
marketplace. If you need this func- 
tion, check with the memory-board 
manufacturer. 

In summary, the dynamic-memory 
board represents a superior cost /per- 
formance ratio when compared to 
static memories. When looking at 
dynamic-memory boards, choose one 
that is optimized for your particular 
application, whether it be a single- 
user or multi-user system. It is also a 
good policy to check with the 
memory-board manufacturer before 
your purchase to verify that the 
board will work correctly in your 
particular system. You are best pro- 
tected by a good return policy in case 
you experience any problems after 
testing the memory board. ■ 



150 February 1981 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 98 on inquiry card. 



The first personal computer 
far under $200. 



The Sinclair ZX80. 
A complete computer- 
only $199 . 95 plus $5. 00 shipping. 

Now, for just $199.95, you can get a 
complete, powerful, full-function computer, 
matching or surpassing other personal 
computers costing several times more. 

It's the Sinclair ZX80. The computer that 
"Personal Computer World" gave 5 stars 
for 'excellent value.' 

The ZX80 cuts away computer jargon 
and mystique. It takes you straight into 
BASIC, the most common, easy-to-use 
computer language. 

You simply take it out of the box, con- 
nect it to your TV, and turn it on. And if 
you want, you can use an ordinary cassette 
recorder to store programs. With the man- 
ual in your hand, you'll be running programs 
in an hour. Within a week, you'll be writing 
complex programs with confidence. 

All for under $200. 

Sophisticated design makes the 
ZX80 easy to learn, easy to use. 

We've packed the conventional computer 
onto fewer, more powerful LSI chips- 
including the Z80A microprocessor, the 
faster version of the famous Z80. This 
makes the ZX80 the world's first truly port- 
able computer (6V2" x 8V2" x \W and a mere 
12 oz.). The ZX80 also features a touch 
sensitive, wipe-clean keyboard and a 
32-character by 24-line display. 

Yet, with all this power, the ZX80 is easy 
to use, even for beginners. 



""••AaCft^m 




Your course in computing. 

The ZX80 comes complete with its own 
128-page guide to computing. The manual 
is perfect for both novice and expert. For 
every chapter of theory, there's a chapter 
of practice. So you learn by doing— notjust 
by reading. It makes learning easy, exciting 
and enjoyable. 

You'll also receive a catalog packed with 
items that can make your ZX80 even more 
useful. Including 27 program cassettes, 
from games and home budgeting for just 
$6.95, to Sinclair's unique Computer Learning 
Lab. And books, hardware options and 
other accessories. 

ZX80's advanced design features. 

Sinclair's 4K integer BASIC has perfor- 
mance features you'd expect only on much 
larger and more expensive computers. 
■ Unique 'one touch' entry. Keywords 

(RUN, PRINT, LIST, etc.) have their 

own single-key entry to reduce typing 

and save memory space. 




■ Automatic 
error detection, 
A cursor identifies errors 
immediately to prevent entering 
programs with faults. 

■ Powerful text editing facilities. 

■ Also programmable in machine code. 

■ Excellent string handling capability— up 
to 26 string variables of any length. 

■ Graphics, with 22 standard symbols. 

■ Built-in random number generator for 
games and simulations. 

Sinclair's BASIC places no arbitrary re- 
strictions on you— with many other flexible 
features, such as variable names of any 
length. 

And the computer that can do so much 
for you now will do even more in the fu- 
ture. Options will include expansion of IK 
user memory to 16K, a plug-in 8K floating- 
point BASIC chip, applications software, 
and other peripherals. 

Order your ZX80 now! 

The ZX80 is available only by mail from 
Sinclair, a leading manufacturer of con- 
sumer electronics worldwide. 

To order by mail, use the coupon below. 
But for fastest delivery, order by phone 
and charge to your Master Charge or VISA. 
The ZX80 is backed by a 30-day money- 
back guarantee, a 90-day limited warranty 
with a national service-by-mail facility, and 
extended service contracts are available for 
a minimal charge. 



Price includes TV and cassette connectors, 
AC adaptor, and 128-page manual. 

All you need to use your ZX80 is a standard TV 
(color or black and white). The ZX80 comes complete 
with connectors that easily hook up to the antenna 
terminals of your TV. Also included is a connector for 
a portable cassette recorder, if you choose to store 
programs. (You use an ordinary blank cassette.) 





The ZX80isa family learning aid. ChildrenlOand 
above will quickly understand the principles of 
computing— and have fun learning. 

Master Charge or VISA orders call: 

(203) 265-9171. We'll refund the cost of your call. 
Information: General and technical— (617) 
367-1988, 367-1909, 367-1898, 367-2555. 
Phones open Monday-Friday from 8 AM to 
8 PM EST. 



Sinclair Research Ltd., 475 Main St., 
P.O. Box 3027, Wallingford, CT 06492. 



To: Sinclair Research Ltd., 475 Main St., P.O. Box 3027, Wallingford, CT 06492. 

Please send me ZX80 personal computer(s) at $199. 95* each (US dollars), plus $5 

shipping. (Your ZX80 may be tax deductible. ) 

I enclose a check/money order payable to Sinclair Research Ltd. for $ 



Name_ 



Address _ 
City 



.State. 



_Zip_ 



Occupation: 

Intended use of ZX80: . 



-Age: 



L 



Have you ever used a computer? □ Yes □ No. *For Conn, deliveries, add sales tax. 

Do you own another personal computer? □ Yes □ No. 

BY-2-1 



Stacking Strings in FORTH 



John ) Cassady 

339 15th St 

Oakland CA 94612 



Anyone who is familiar with 
writing programs in BASIC and who 
later switches to writing in FORTH 
surely misses the convenience and 
ease of BASIC string handling. For- 
tunately, there is no need to deprive 
yourself all these features: they can be 
implemented in FORTH with the ad- 
ditional bonus of not being tied to the 
preconceived ideas of your software 
vendor. If you do not like the way the 
string operators work, you can 
change them: you control the source 
code. 

Adding Strings to FORTH 

Tools for manipulating strings of 
characters and other data items are 
useful to the personal computer pro- 
grammer. The routines presented 
here are an extension to FORTH. 
They run in fig-FORTH (the versions 
of FORTH for various microproces- 
sors written by the FORTH Interest 
Group) and should run with little 
adaptation in any standard FORTH. 

String implementations abound in 
FORTH. Some, like the one presented 
here, use stacks. The use of stacks 
seems appropriate in FORTH. Most 
of FORTH programming consists of 
manipulating entities on various 
stacks. 

A stack is a LIFO (last in, first out) 
list. Stacks usually have a fixed 
width; that is, the number of bits that 
are simultaneously pushed (ie: put 
onto the stack) or popped (ie: taken 
off the stack) does not vary. An item 
on the stack is usually limited to some 
maximum size (eg: 16 bits) that can 



represent numbers up to decimal 
65,535. The FORTH parameter and 
return stacks both have fixed widths. 
The string stack is like the para- 
meter stack and the return stack, but 
it is not restricted in width. String- 
stack items can be any width and any 
combination of widths. However, 
item size and total stack size are 
limited only by the amount of mem- 
ory devoted to them. As a rule of 
thumb, a few hundred bytes are more 



than enough. 

Figures 1 and 2 and listing 1 illu- 
strate two ways of visualizing string 
stacks. They show the stacks growing 
downward from high memory. This 
is typical in FORTH. Even though the 
string stack grows downward, we 
will refer to the most recent entry on 
the stack as the top of the stack. The 
unchanging end of the stack (hexa- 
decimal 2000 in figure 2) will be called 
the base. When something is popped 



r~ 





6 


W 


1 


N 


T 


E 


R 


r -1 


( 

GROWS 
DOWN 












N 


\ 

FIXED BASE OF 
STRING STACK $0 





4 


F 


A 


L 


L 






( 


























^ 


r~ 





6 


s 


U 


M 


M 


E 


R 


-J 


(_ 
































/■ 





6 


s 


P 


R 


1 


N 


' 


\ 




HED 

E. 








\ 
\ 

1 


< 


1 
L 

NEXT ITEM PUS 
WOULD GO HER 


ON 


ST* 


-J 

; 

CK 


THIS ITEM WOULD BE 
PRINTED BY THE FORTH 
WORD {$.} 



Figure 1: One implementation of a string stack in FORTH. As the name implies, a string 
stack is a stack of variable-length strings (as opposed to fixed-length numbers) orga- 
nized such that only the string most recently put on top of the stack can be removed 
from the stack. Each stack entry consists of the length of the string, expressed in 2 bytes, 
followed by the characters of the string itself. Due to an initial design decision, this 
string grows toward low memory locations (ie: down) rather than toward high memory 
locations (ie: up). Despite this physical orientation, the most recently placed string is 
located at the top of the stack — at the lowest address in the stack. 



152 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



"My computer helped me write 

The Final Encyclopedia. I wouldn't trust 

anything less than Scotch" Brand Diskettes 

to make a long story short!' 




Gordon R. Dickson, 
Science Fiction Author, 
Minneapolis, Minnesota 

Gordon Dickson: a small business- 
man whose product is his own 
imagination. He's written more than 
40 novels and 150 short stories; 
his newest work is The Final 
Encyclopedia. He uses his personal 
computer and word processing 
software to maximize his production. 
All his words-his product- 
are stored on diskettes. He calls up 
sentences and paragraphs on 
demand, and gets more rewrite out 
of the time available. So he depends 
on Scotch diskettes to save himself 
production time. 
Dependable Scotch media can 
work just as hard foryou. Each 
Scotch diskette is tested before it 
leaves our factory, and certified 
error-free. So you can expect it to 
perform exactly right. 
Scotch 8" and 5Va" diskettes are 
compatible with computer/diskette 
systems like TRS-80, Apple, PET, 
Wang and many others. Get them 
from your local 3M distributor. For 
the one nearest you, call toll-free: 
800/328-1300. (In Minnesota, call 
collect: 612/736-9625.) Ask forthe 
Data Recording Products Division. 
In Canada, contact 3M Canada, 
Inc., Ontario. 

If it'sworth remembering, 

it's worth Scotch 

Data Recording Products. 




cfete 



3M Hears You... 



3M 



Circle 99 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 153 



Circle 100 on inquiry card. 



from the stack, it is the top item (as 
defined above) that is removed. 

A string consists of a 2-byte length 
word followed by the text of the 
string, as you are moving upward in 
memory. Since the length is explicitly 
stated, there is no need for a sepa- 
rator or delimiter. Any of the 256 
possible 8-bit quantities, for example, 
can appear in the string. Strings can 



include binary numbers, floating- 
point numbers, encrypted messages: 
in short, anything that can be stored 
in a byte. 

Before considering routines any 
further, heed the caution that this 
article presents an example of an 
extension to FORTH. It's not the only 
way to implement strings nor, 
perhaps, the best way. The article 



7 7 



$0 ► 



TEXT < 



LENGTH 



TEXT I 



LENGTH 



TEXT ( 



LENGTH 



TEXT I 



LENGTH 

(2 BYTES OR 
1 FORTH WORD) 



ASSUME MEMORY 
ADDRESS 2000 



// 



-MEMORY ADDRESS 19E2 



Figure 2: Another view of the string stack of figure 1. $0isa constant that points to the 
address of the base of the string stack. Here it has the value of hexadecimal 2000. See 
listing 1 for the FORTH dialogue that uses the string stack shown here. 



154 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 






ITION 




VERS 







MM 



: 



'■ 







The Byte Covers shown at left are available as 
Collector Edition Prints. Each full color print is: 

• 11" X 14" including a 1Vz" border. 

■ Part of an edition strictly limited to only 100 
prints. 

• Personally inspected, signed and numbered 
by the artist, Robert Tinney. 

• Accompanied by a Certificate of Authenticity. 

• Carefully packed and shipped first class. 

• Priced at $20, plus $3 ($6 overseas) for post- 
age and handling. If Set 1-4 or Set 5-8 is 
ordered, the price for all 4 prints is only $70. 

To order, use the coupon below. Visa or Master- 
Charge orders may call Toll Free. 



Please send me the following Collector Edi 
tion Byte Covers and Certificates of Authen 
ticity. 

Qty. Cover Amount 

#1-7 Bridges of Konigsberg $20 

#2-Fun and Games $20 

#3-Homebrev» $20 

#4-Sottv»are Mirage $20 

#5-Computer Engineering $20 

#6-Total Eclipse $20 

#7-Computer Hardware $20 

#8-Perspectives $20 

No.s 1-4 $70 

No.s 5-8 .$70 

Post. & hand. ($3 in US . $6 overseas) S 



Total 



D I have enclosed check or money order 

□ Visa □ MasterCharge 

Card # 



Expiration Date 

Send my print(s) to: 

Name 

Address 

City 

State_ 



-Zip- 



I 



F °^s7^nr — ---_ 708 ' 
'- 80o -<*«-ose^ EE! 



Mail this coupon to: 

robert tinney graphics 

1864 N. Pamela Dr. 
Baton Rouge, LA 
70815 



simply illustrates a FORTH program 
and an interesting mixture of two 
quite distinct logical structures: the 
stack and the string. And it has some 
desirable features: it is easy to 
visualize and modify the operations. 

Some String-Manipulation Words 

In listing 2, the word *$* creates a 
constant with a value equal to the size 
of memory to be reserved for the 
string stack during compilation. The 
stack size can be changed simply by 
changing this one value and recom- 
piling. 

The words $0 , $P , and { $P! } are 



direct duplicates of the words SO , 
SP , and { SP! } used in the FORTH 
kernel. The only difference is that 
they operate on the string stack in- 
stead of on the parameter stack. $0 is 
a constant that returns the address of 
the fixed end of the string stack (ie: 
the base) to the parameter stack. (See 
line 4 of listing 2.) This means that the 
value of $0 , the memory address, is 
pushed onto the parameter stack 
when it is used. 

$P is a variable. It is the stack 
pointer. At any given time, it con- 
tains the address of the top string on 
the stack (which is the length word of 



* WRITE OR CALL FOR FREE CATALOGUE * 



CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

HIGH IN QUALITY. LOW IN PRICE 
Z80 CPU. 4 Mhz, with one serial port: 12 slot S-100 mainframe, disk controller, 64K 

Dynamic Ram, CIVM 2.2 s Si, 645. 

Interfaced to 2 Shugart, 8 inch drives with power supply and cabinet for an 

additional Si, 250. 

and you have a complete S-100 system for under $3,000. THE BEST BUY ON 
THE MARKET. 



IMS 5000 and 8000 Systems 

The new rising stars! Beautifully designed and constructed with the Industrial Micro 
System reputation for fine quality. These systems feature a Z80 CPU, S-100 bus; double 
density drives (either single oi" double sided) CP/M' HI . 5000 series uses mini floppies, 8000 
uses maxi floppies. Hard disk and MP/M now available. 

Model 5-00125 with two double density drives, 32K Static RAM $2,765. 

Model 8-00125 as above but with 8" drives $4,185. 



PER SCI— THE KING AND QUEEN OF DRIVES! 

Model 299B: Dual headed drives, total 3.2 MB unformatted $2,300. 

Model 277: Dual 8 inch drives, voice coil positioned, IBM compatible, 

1600 K BYTES per drive, unformatted $1,210. 

Slimlinecabinet and power for either 277or299 $ 300. 



DRIVES Dual 800R Shugarts, 
supply, cabinet and fan, A & T. . 
Qume data track 8, double sided, 

supply, fan cabinet, A & T 

Per Sci 277. Si, 210. Shugart . . 
MPIB51 S265. B52 



power 
$1,250. 
power 
$1,625. 
. $525. 
. $365. 



HAZELTINE 1500 

1510 $980. 1520 

1420 (two year warranty) 



. . $885. 
$1,210. 
. . $775. 



CENTRONICS 

737 S780. 730 $680. 

Apple serial/parallel interface . . . .$195. 



TELEVIDEO SMART CRTs 
912 S780. 920 



.$850. 



IMS MEMORY 16 K static $285. 

32 K static $585. 

64 K Dynamic with parity $950. 



TEI MAINFRAMES, S-100 

12 slot $500. 

22 slot $670. 



TARBELL 

Double density controller $420. 

Cables $40. 



3M SCOTCH® Diskettes 

buy the best. 8" or 5" (Model 740 or 744) 

One box of ten diskettes $29. 

Five boxes, each $26.50 



WE EXPORT: 



Overseas Callers: 



TWX 710 588 2844 



Phone 212 448-6298 or Cable: OWENSASSOC 



SHE OUR AD FOR 8" FLOPPY NORTH STAR SUBSYSTEM ON PAGE 326 



JOHN D. OWENS 

Associates, Inc. 

12 Schubert Street 

Staten Island, New York 10305 

212 448-62831 212 448-2913 212 448-6298 



the top string). When $P is executed, 
it places the address (not the value) of 
the stack pointer onto the parameter 
stack. Therefore, to get the value of 
the string-stack pointer, we need to 
type the following two-word se- 
quence: 

$P @ 

This sequence is reduced to a single 
word $P@ , which is defined at line 7 
of listing 2. Listing 3 shows a FORTH 
dialogue that explains the use of 
VARIABLE , CONSTANT , and @ 
(pronounced "fetch"). 

The word { $PI } empties the 
string stack. [The braces used in 
{ $P! } and elsewhere in the article 
are not part of the FORTH word. 
Following a convention set in the 
August 1980 BYTE, braces are used to 
surround a FORTH phrase or a 
FORTH word that contains a punc- 
tuation mark GW] It does this by 

placing the value for the base of the 
string stack onto the parameter stack 
and making it the current value for 
the string-stack pointer. The word 
{ $PI } is the first colon definition en- 
countered. The words CONSTANT , 
VARIABLE , and { : } compile 
words into the FORTH dictionary. 

Our next definition, in line 8 of 
listing 2, is $DROP . This will drop 
(ie: delete) the string on top of the 
string stack. It may seem we are get- 
ting ahead of ourselves — after all, 
we are defining $DROP before we 
define any word that puts strings on- 
to the string stack. But this is okay as 
long as we don't use any undefined 
words inside the definition. FORTH 
compiles its words in one pass, and it 
won't give us an error message as 
long as we don't give it a word it 
doesn't recognize. 

If we "walk" through $DROP , we 
see that the value of the string-stack 
pointer is placed on the parameter 
stack by the word $P@ . It is then 
duplicated by the word DUP , leav- 
ing two copies. The top copy of the 
address is replaced by the contents of 
the location pointed to when the 
word @ is executed. This places the 
length of the top string on the para- 
meter stack. The word + adds this 
length to the value of the stack 
pointer, and 2+ increments that 
result by 2. The value on top of the 
parameter stack is now the address of 
the word containing the length of the 
second string on the string stack. 



156 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



The sequence { $P ! } is a two-step 
process that places the address of the 
variable containing the string-stack 
pointer on the parameter stack and 
storing the new value into it. Thus, 
after executing $DROP , the string- 
stack pointer is changed to point to 
what was the next-to-top string. This 
effectively drops the top string, even 
though there was nothing changed in 
the contents of the memory buffer 
devoted to the string stack. 

This definition of $DROP is not 
entirely adequate. If you execute this 
word with an empty string stack, 
there is a good chance of moving 
your string-stack pointer into a 
memory area where it doesn't belong. 
To avoid this, additional code must 
be added. The word $DROP should 
check that the stack is not empty 
before it executes. Safeguards of this 
nature are appropriate in many of 
these routines. To include them in 
this article would, however, need- 
lessly complicate the description of 
the words. 

Loading, Storing, and Printing 
Strings 

The word $@ (line 9 of listing 2) is 
the first that expects parameters on 
the parameter stack. It expects a text 
address as the second stack item and a 
quantity on top of the stack. The text 
address points to a memory location 
of the first byte of the string that will 
be moved to the string stack. The 
quantity is the length of the string. 
Thus, if the expression "the quick 
brown fox" was residing in memory 
starting at hexadecimal location 2C80 
and we wanted to move it to the 
string stack, we would type the 
following sequence: 

2C80 13 $@ 

with the hexadecimal 13 (or decimal 
19) being the length of the string. The 
quantities could be in decimal if the 
FORTH word BASE has been set to 
decimal. 

The word { $! } complements $@ . 
It takes the string on top of the string 
stack and moves its text to whatever 
memory location is addressed by the 
top of the parameter stack. Thus, the 
string can be moved into a string 
variable, to an output buffer, or to a 
memory-mapped video display. 

To print a string we use the two- 
character word { $. } (pronounced 
"string dot"). This follows the 



FORTH convention of using dot for 
output. It also uses the FORTH oper- 
ator TYPE to accomplish it. 

$DUP (line 13 of listing 2) is shown 
as an example of one of several 
operators that might be written to 
manipulate string-stack items. Useful 
additions are $SWAP and $OVER. 
The need could also arise for a 
$ROT , although I've never wanted 
it. $DUP simply gets the length and 
location of the current top string on 
the string stack and executes $@ . 

For a truly useful system, we want 
a person to sit at a keyboard and be 
able to type a sentence directly to the 



string stack. This and more is accom- 
plished by the one-character FORTH 
word { " } (pronounced "quote"). 
The techniques used in quote are ex- 
actly the same as in the fig-FORTH 
message-handler word { ." }. This 
word (pronounced "dot quote") is a 
period followed by a double quote 
mark. This word checks to see if we 
are interpreting from the keyboard or 
compiling a definition. If we are inter- 
preting, it accepts input until it 
detects another quote, then moves the 
text between the two quotes to the 
string stack. If we are compiling a 

Text continued on page 162 



TELETYPE MODEL 43 INVENTORY SALE 



TELETYPE Model 4320 AAA S885. 

220 volt model with transformer installed inside 

cabinet .... S985. 

Model 43ASR, 8 level, 1" tape S2,595. 

Limited supply of Model 45 available. 



IBM 3101 CRT Model 10 Sl,l95. 

Model 20 Si, 395. 

Selectric-like, detached keyboard. 9x16 dot matrix. Main- 
tenance contract from IBM only $70 per year. 



ITHACA INTERSYSTEMS 

Full S-100 IEEE Compatibility! Full 24 address bits. DMA disk 
controller. SYSTEM 2A includes20 slot mainframe with front 
panel, 64K Dynamic RAM. Z80 CPU, 4 MHZ, extended ad- 
dressing capability. 4 parallel, 2 serial I/O, floppy controller. 
Our discounted price S3, 236. 



MARINCHIP SYSTEMS M9900 

Elegant 16 bit CPU, S-100 compatible, multi user, multi pro- 
cessor operating system. BASIC, FORTH, META, PASCAL, 
Word processor, text editor 

CPU kit and software package S 550. 

Assembled S 700. 

Complete system, 64KB, two drives 55,700. 



MICROANGELO 52,280. 

High resolution graphics system. Microangelo features 15", 
22MHZ, green phospher screen, 72 key keyboard; includes 
complete cabling and software. From SCION. 
S-100 Graphics card 5960. 



GRAPHICS SOFTWARE 

On line, real time, for the M9900 to drive the Microangelo. 
For use in design of PC board masks, 1C masks and other ap- 
plications. 



CORVUS HARD DRIVES 

We are the S-100 CORVUS dealer in the New York area. 
Demonstrations by appointment. 

MODEL 11, HARD DISK SYSTEM 54,820. 

Mirror Backup System S 715. 

Host Multiplexer S 675. 



MULTI-BUS 

Z-8000 CPU and supporting boards. From Central Data 
Corp. Completesystemsstarting at 56,500. 



INDUSTRIAL 

MICRO 

SYSTEMS 

TELETYPE 

HAZELTINE 

IBM 

TELEVIDEO 

TEI 

TARBELL 

CORVUS 

PER SCI 

NEC 

ITHACA 

INTERSYSTEMS 

MARINCHIP 

DATA SOUTH 

QUME 
CENTRONICS 

TEXAS 

INSTRUMENTS 

ATARI 

DEC 

CALIFORNIA 

COMPUTER 

SYSTEMS 

KONAN 

EDGE 

TECHNOLOGY 

INNOTRONICS 

XEROX 

DIABLO 

INTEGRAL 

DATA SYSTEMS 

CROMEMCO 

SOROC 
MICROPRO 

TELETEK 

NOVATION 

AMPEX 

CDC 

NORTH STAR 

COMMODORE 

SCION 

MP! 

POWER ONE 

MEASUREMENT 

SYSTEMS 
AND CONTROL 



WE OFFER A FULL RANGE OF EXPERT CONSULTING 

SERVICES COVERING ALL AREAS 

OF COMPUTER APPLICATIONS AND SYSTEMS. 



JOHN D. OWENS 

Associates, Inc. 
SEE OUR AD ON FACING PAGE 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 157 



Circle 109 on inquiry card. 



If you're looking for 

the best prices 
in the U.S.A. on 




TRS-80 

MICROCOMPUTERS 

We have consistently offered the 
TRS-80 line at savings up to 20% , 
which means you can save $150 
to $1500 by buying directly from 
Computer Discount of America. 

TRS-80 Model II, 64K System, 
with disc drive only $3385.00 

Other TRS-80 Model II, or Model 
III computers and systems, Color 
Computers, and Pocket Computers 
are in stock at similar savings. 

Our savings are as big on expan- 
sion interfaces, printers, diskettes - 
everything for your TRS-80 System. 



ATARI 

MICROCOMPUTERS 




We have the full line of ATARI 
personal computers and systems, 
including Models400 and 800. 
The computers, accessories, and 
hardware are brand new, in 
factory sealed cartons, and carry 
a full factory warranty. 
Most models are in stock for 
immediate delivery (usually 
within 7-10 days), and a price 
quote is as near as your phone. 
So if you're looking for the best 
prices in the U.S.A., for micro- 
computers and accessories, call 
Computer Discount of America, 
Inc., West Milford, New Jersey 
07480. 201-728-8080. NO TAX ON 
OUT-OF-STATE SHIPMENTS. 



TOLL FREE 800-526-5313 



Computer 



of America 



Authorized TRS-80 dealer, store B-282. 



Listing 1: Manipulating the string stack and string pointer. Figures 1 and 2 show the 
state of the string stack at the beginning of this dialogue. Here and in following listings, 
user input is underlined and computer response is not. See listing 3 for further details on 
the FORTH word @ (pronounced "fetch"). 



Dialogue With Computer 
HEX OK 

$0 . 2000 OK 

$P @ . 19E2 OK 
$P @ @ . 6 OK 



%_ SPRINGOK 

$0 . 2000 OK 

$P @ . 19EA OK 
$P @ @ . 6 OK 



t SUMMEROK 
S^FALLOK 
$. WINTEROK 



Commentary 

All numbers will be expressed as 
hexadecimal. 

Base of string stack is hexadecimal 
2000. 

Location pointed to by stack pointer $P. 

Contents of location (length word of string 
on top of stack). 

Print top string; notice no space between 
STRING and prompt OK. 

The base of the stack hasn't changed. (It's 
a constant.) 

But the stack pointer has changed. 



Print the next three strings, 
popping them from the string stack. 



Listing 2: Defining string-manipulating words. See text for details. 




1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 



( FORTH STRING STACK EXTENSION 
HEX FORTH DEFINITIONS 



FIGFORTH1.1 ) 



200 CONSTANT *$' 
*$* ALLOT ( LEAVE 
HERE CONSTANT $0 
$0 VARIABLE $P 
$P! $0 $P ! 
$P@ $P @ ; 
$DROP $P@ DUP 
$@ DUP >R $P@ 

SWAP - SWAP 
$! DUP 2+ SWAP i 
$. $P@ DUP 2 + 
$DUP $P@ DUP 



(NUMBER OF BYTES RESERVED FOR $STK 

IN THE DICTIONARY OF *$' BYTES FOR $STK 

( $0 RETURNS FIXED BASE OF $STK TO PSTK 

$P RETURNS ADDR OF VAR HOLDING $STK PTR 

( $P! EMPTIES $STK BY RESETTING $P TO $0 

( $P@ RETURNS VALUE OF $P TO PSTK 

(- 2+ $P ! ; ( DROP TOP STRING 

TA - 2 QTY - 1 FETCH STRING TO $STK 

R CMOVE 2 - R> OVER ! $P ! ; 

SWAP CMOVE $DROP ; ( ADDR - 1 

TYPE $DROP ; ( OUTPUT STRING 
@ $@ ; ( DUPLICATE STRING 



GAP 



( 
OVER 
) ROT 

SWAP @ 
2+ SWAP 



Listing 3: A dialogue that explains the FORTH words CONSTANT , VARIABLE , @ , 
and { . }. The main point to remember is that when you name a constant, its value is 
put on the stack; but when you name a variable, the address that contains the value is 
put on the stack. 



Dialogue With Computer 
100 CONSTANT CON OK 

100 VARIABLE VAR OK 
CON OK 



100 OK 



VAR OK 
. 6480 OK 



Commentary 

Defining CON = 100. 

Defining VAR = 100. 

Put value of constant onto stack; 

print value on top of stack, remove from 

stack; therefore, 100 is value of CON. 

Put address of variable onto stack; 
print value on top of stack, remove from 
stack; therefore 6480 is the memory loca- 
tion at which the value of VAR is stored. 

Listing 3 continued on page 160 



158 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 101 on inquiry card. 




SYBEX SPEAKS YOUR LANGUAGE . . . 



THE PASCAL HANDBOOK by Jacques Tiberghien 

— A dictionary of every Pascal instruction, function, 
operator and reserved word covering virtually all 
versions of Pascal. 300 pp., 150 III., Ref. P320, 7"x9", 
$14.95 ■ 
INTRODUCTION TO PASCAL (Including UCSD 
PASCAL) by Rodnay Zaks — A step-by-step introduc- 
tion for anyone wanting to learn the language of 
PASCAL. Describes UCSD and Standard Pascals. 440 
pp., 100 III., Ref. P310, 7"x9", $14.95 ■ 
INSIDE BASIC GAMES by Richard Mateosian — 
Uses a games format to teach program design in 
BASIC. Games run on TRS-80, APPLE II, PET/CBM 
and others. 300 pp., 100 111., Ref. B245, 7"x9", $13.95 ■ 
FIFTY BASIC EXERCISES by J. P. Lamoitier - 
Teaches BASIC by actual practice using graduated 
exercises drawn from everyday applications. All ex- 
ercises written in Microsoft BASIC. 300 pp., 140 III., 
Ref. B250, 7"x9", $12.95 ■ 
THE CP/M HANDBOOK by Rodnay Zaks - Com- 
plete instructions and reference handbook for CP/M 

— the industry standard in microcomputer operating 
systems. 336 pp., 100 III., Ref. C300, WxWA", $14.95 ■ 
PROGRAMMING THE Z80 by Rodnay Zaks - A 
complete course in programming the Z80 
microprocessor and a thorough introduction to 
machine language. 620 pp., 200 III., Ref. C280, 
SVi"x&Vi", 2nd Ed. $14.95 ■ 
PROGRAMMING THE 6502 by Rodnay Zaks - 
Machine language programming of the 6502 from 



basic concepts to advanced data structures. 392 pp., 
160 III., Ref. C202, 5%"x8'/a", 3rd Ed., $12.95 ■ 

6502 APPLICATIONS BOOK by Rodnay Zaks - 
Real life application techniques: the Input/Output 
book for the 6502. 288 pp., 207 III., Ref. D302, 
5'/2"x8'/2", $12.95 ' ■ 

6502 GAMES by Rodnay Zaks — Third in the 6502 
series. Teaches advanced programming techniques 
using games as a framework for learning. 304 pp., 140 
III., Ref. C402, SVS'xBVi", $1 2.95 ■ 

YOUR FIRST COMPUTER by Rodnay Zaks - The 
most popular introductions small computers, what 
they do and how to buy one. 280 pp., 150 III., Ref. 
C200A, 5'/2"x8'/2", 2nd Ed., $7.95 ■ 

MICROPROCESSORS: FROM CHIPS TO SYSTEMS 
by Rodnay Zaks — Covers components, concepts 
and techniques from basic to advanced. 420 pp., 257 
III., Ref.C201, 5'/2"x8'/2", 3rd Ed., $10.95 ■ 

MICROPROCESSOR INTERFACING TECHNIQUES 
by Austin Lesea, Rodnay Zaks — Hardware and soft- 
ware interconnect techniques including D to A con- 
version, peripherals standard buses and 
troubleshooting. 464 pp., 400 III., Ref. C207, SVi'xBVi", 
3rd Ed., $15.95 ■ 

PROGRAMMING THE Z8000 by Richard Mateosian 
— Architecture and function of the Z8000 and its 
family of support chips. Includes programming in 
Z8000 machine language. 312 pp., 124 III., Ref. C281, 
5'/2"x8'/2", $15.95 ■ 



fsYBE 



MAIL TO: SYBEX 

DEPT. B2^ _ 

2344 SIXTH STREET ^^^T 
BERKELEY, CA 94710 
Phone Orders: 415/848-8233 



NAME 

ADDRESS. 
CITY 



D SEND ME YOUR FREE CATALOG 



STATE 



ZIP 



ADD □ $1.50/book UPS or □ 75«/book 4th class mail (CA add tax) 
OR CHARGE MY □ VISA DMC D AM EX. CARD NO 



Total Amt. Enclosed. 



SIGNATURE 



. EXP. DATE. 



Circle 102 on Inquiry card. 



MTI stocks 'em all 
for faster delivery. 



No hidden charges. Prices include delivery. 

Ask about our"QED" discounts. 

V ISA and MasterCard orders accepted. 

VIDEO TERMINALS 

VT100 DECscope $ 1695 

VT132 DECscope 2295 

ADM-3A (dumb terminal) • 

ADM-3A+ (dumb terminal) » 

ADM-31 (2 page buffer) • 

ADM-42 (8 page buffer avail.) • 

1410 (Hazeltine dumb terminal) 825 

1420 (dumb terminal) 895 

1421 (Consul 580 & ADM-3A comp.l.... 895 

1500 (dumb terminal) 1045 

1510 (buffered) _ 1145 

1520 (buffered printer port) 1395 

1552 (VT-52 compatible) 1350 

300 BAUD TELEPRINTERS 

LA34-DA OECwriter IV 1045 

LA34-AA DECwriter IV 1295 

Teletype 4310 1085 

Teletype 4320 1225 

Diabl.o 630 RO 2295 

Diablo 1640 RO 3085 

Diablo 1640 KSR 3285 

Diablo 1650 RO 3185 

Diablo 1650 KSR 3385 

Tl 743 (portable) 1190 

Tl 745 (portable/built-in coupler) 1585 

Tl 763 (portable/bubble memory) 2690 

Tl 765 (port/bubble mem/b-i coupler) . 2895 

600 BAUD TELEPRINTERS 

Tl 825 RO impact 1565 

Tl 825 KSR impact 1645 

Tl 825 RO Pkg 1750 

Tl 825 KSR Pkg 1895 

1200 BAUD TELEPRINTERS 
LA120-AA DECwriter III (forms pkg.) . 2410 

LA 180 DECprinter I 2195 

Tl 783 (portable) 1745 

Tl 785 (port/built-in coupler) 2395 

Tl 787 (port/internal modem) 2845 

Tl 810 RO impact 1800 

Tl 810 RO Pkg 2047 

Tl 820 KSR impact 1895 

Tl 820 KSR Pkg 1995 

TI820 RO 1895 

Tl 820 RO Pkg 2047 

2400 BAUD 

Dataproducts M200 (2400 baud) 2595 

DATAPRODUCTS LINE PRINTERS 

B300 (300LPM band) 5535 

B600 (600LPM band) 6861 

2230 (300LPM drum) 7723 

2260 (600LPM drum) 9614 

2290 (900LPM drum) 12655 

ACOUSTIC COUPLERS 

A/J A242-A (300 baud orig.l Z42 

AM 247 (300 baud orig.) 315 

A/J AD342 (300 baud orig./ans.) 395 

A/J 1234 (Vadic compatible) 895 

A/J 1245 (300/1200 Bell comp.l 695 

MODEMS 

GDC 103A3 (300 baud Bell) 395 

GDC 202S/T (1200 baud Bell) 565 

GDC 212-A (300/1200 baud Bell) 850 

A/J 1256 (Vadic compatible) 825 

CASSETTE STORAGE SYSTEMS 

Techtran 816 (store/forward) .1050 

Techtran 817 (store/for/speed up) 1295 

Techtran818 (editing) 1795 

Techtran 822 (dual) 2295 

MFE 5000 (editing) 1495 

FLOPPY DISK SYSTEMS 

Techtran 950 (store/forward) 1395 

Techtran 951 (editing) 1995 

•Please call for quote. 



mti 



Applications Specialists & Distributors 
Great Neck. New York/Cleveland Ohio 



N.Y.: 516/482-3500 & 212/89^-7177 
800/645-8016 Ohio: 216/464-6688 



Listing 3 continued: 

VAR OK 
@ OK 

_^100 OK 

VAR @ . 100 OK 
VAR ? 100 OK 



The address of VAR is on the stack. 

@ replaces the address with its contents. 

The value of memory location 6480 should 

now be on top of the stack. 

It is; this shows that VAR stores the 

value 100. 

This can be done on one line 
{ ? } is the same as { @ . } 



Listing 4: More string-manipulating words. 





1 

2 

3 

4 

5 

6 

7 

8 

9 

10 

11 

12 

13 

14 

15 



FIGFORTH1.1 
MOVES IN-LINE STRING TO SSTACK 



FORTH STRING STACK EXTENSION 
(") R DUP 2+ SWAP @ ( 

DUP 2+ R> + >R $@ ; 

( IF COMPILING EMPLACE AN IN-LINE STRING TO 

( BE MOVED TO STRING STACK AT EXECUTION TIME 

( ELSE PUT ENCLOSED STRING ON STRING STACK 



22 STATE @ 
IF COMPILE ( 

- 1 ALLOT 
ELSE C, WORD 

HERE DUP 2 + 



) C, WORD 
DUP , ALLOT 
HERE C@ 
SWAP @ $ 



HERE Crj 



1 ALLOT HERE ! 



ENDIF 



IMMEDIATE 



Listing 5: More string-manipulating words. 

( FORTH STRING STACK EXTENSION FIGFORTH1.1 

1 0E + ORIGIN @ CONSTANT BS ( SYSTEM BACKSPACE CHARACTER = 8 

2 7F CONSTANT PBS ( BYTE USED BY POLY 88 MONITOR AS BACKSPACE 

3 : SINPUTPADDUP ( RTNS TEXT DELIM BY CR FROM KEYBRD TO $STK 

4 BEGIN KEY DUP BS = ( IS IT A BACKSPACE? ) 

5 IF( BS ) >R 2DUP = R> SWAP ( AND AT START OF BUFFER? 

6 IF DROP 

7 ELSE DROP PBS EMIT 1 - 

8 ENDIF 

9 ELSE ( NOT BS ) DUP OD = ( IS IT A RETURN? ) 

10 IF DROP 20 EMIT 1 

1 1 ELSE DUP EMIT OVER C ! 1 + 

12 ENDIF 

13 ENDIF 

14 UNTIL OVER - $@ ; 

15 ;S 



Listing 6: Defining a word to get the date from the keyboard. This word, GETDATE , 
prompts for and will accept only an input of exactly seven characters. 



FORTH Statements 

7 SVARIABLE TDATE 
: GETDATE 
BEGIN 

$P! CR 

" Input today's date (DDMMMYY): " $. 

SINPUT 



7 = 
UNTIL 



Commentary 

Begin definition of word GETDATE. 

Start BEGIN. ..UNTIL loop. 

Clear string stack. 

Output message. 

Accept input from keyboard. 

Push length of string onto stack. 

Compare to 7. 

Loop to BEGIN if length of string * 7. 

Listing 6 continued on page 162 



160 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 103 on inquiry card. 



Thousands of SoftwareHows' M users agree — SoftwareHows 
products set a new standard of excellence for solution-oriented 
software. Instant installation for your system, powerful "word 
processing-like" editing facilities and consistentope rating 
features make this SolutionWare" the only serious choice for 
your needs. 



Why settle for a piece 
when you can have 
the whole pie?! 



Payroll 



Cost 
Accounting r 



At last! An integrated system of business 
software ideal for you! 

How often have you purchased software 
only to be disappointed by its features or 
frustrated by the inability of the different 
programs to work together? Are you tired 
of entering the same data into your Pur- 
chase Ordering System when a part is or- 
dered, into jnventory when it arrives, Payables 
when it's invoiced and General Ledger when 
it's paid for? Can you easily link your Account- 
ing Data Base with your word processing software 
to create personalized letters, reports, notices and 
announcements?* Does your Point of Sale, Order 
Entry software also save a keyed file which may later 
be Sorted for over 60 customer characteristics and used 
to generate personalized sales literature? 

If you don't like your answers to these questions, your accounting 
software is costing you money! 

The Data Base lntegration'"System from SoftwareHows '" does all 
this and much more! This newest software product offers the 
perfect blend of performance, price and flexibility. Every single 
transaction feeds your master records. This common data base 
approach organizes all your business information so that every 
module is fully interactive. The result of this vast and easy to use 
data base is unique. You'll be amazed at how much better you'll 
understand the operation and cash flow of your business! And 
better understanding meansbetter planning — and higher profits 
for you! 

The Data Base Integration System is built around the basic four 
accounting tools: General Ledger provides those all important 
balance sheets and income statements, Accounts Receivable and 
Pay able take care of invoice control in a jiffy, while Payroll with 
Cost Accounting does your payroll and provides cost effective- 
ness data. All packages fully interact and are self-checking. The 
amazing Order-Right '" order entry system and MicroDaSys In- 
ventory, give you one of the most complete sales management 
and material requirements systems available. Output is processed 
with lightning speed and meticulous accuracy: invoices, shipping 
labels, charge slips and COD tags. Orders automatically interact 
with Inventory and Receivables. If your stock is too low, Inventory 
recommends the best source of supply and approximate prices to 
pay. Upon authorization, a purchase order is generated. The 
receiving department verifies receipt and the invoice is trans- 
ferred to Accounts Payable. 

The Data Base Integration Business System is $2500. And that's 
for all seven packages! Now there's a deal too good to pass up! 
It includes over 1500 pages of user documentation, and a supply 
of computer forms. With our unique DBI Installation Program, 
getting the complete package up and running on your system 
is a breeze. Best of all, complete CBASIC source code is included 
with every CBASIC package. Current disk formats include 8" soft- 
sectored, 5" hard- and soft-sectored. 

Call or Write for the SolutionWare "" to meet 
your software needs — today! 




Order-Right" 



Accounts 
Payable 



" Inventory 



□ 
□ 



Ask your dealer why our 

business software is the best! 

A Complete 200 page Overview of all 
SoftwareHows SolutionWare is yours 
for just $75, refundable with purchase. 




a division of MicroDaSys 



PO Box 36275 Los Angeles, CA 90036 
(213)731-0876 TWX310-321-2378 



r 





CXI ** 


'" S- 


*"{! 


^ UJ 


fvJ O 


ro cd 


3 ^ 


en O 

> 

01 -^ 


to H 


co 


3 m 


o 


ro 3 


O) 


cd -n 


o 




jO 




m? 




^<- 




Q. O 



w 



> 
2 
m 

o 

> 



m 
x 

tj 
tj 
m 
to 
co 



H m 

s$ 

o o 
i m 

> tj 

3D H 

o < 
m co 

> > 





N) 




(1) 






o 


M 


o 


O 

n 


ID 


it 


M 


CD 


cji 


•■* 


C/3 


H 


*■ 


Tl 




CD 


n 




71 


C) 


<n 


CI 




3 




Tl 




(D 




O 



K> Tl Tl 
_ CD CD CD 

o tj3 3 

03 q® m 
En SJ O o 

C0Q.QO 

-i CD "D "D 

00 Q. CD CD 

= CO 3 3 

O CD _! to 

co o — o 

3 O 3 
3 3 CO 
CD CO 
O 



Tl 


Tl 


22221 


3 

CD 


3 

CD 


01 £0 01 01 (/) 


CD CD CD CD K) 

_ _, «. „ CO 


CD 


CD 


O O O O IS} 


O 


O 


"" Tl 2 2 <-» 

CD CD K? S? O 


II 
CD 

3 
cd 


II 
CD 

3 
ni 


ABL 

le 9' 
le 18 
male 
male 


CD 


CD 


£ «? Jo m 










— O 3 CD 






O 3 CO 


— 


O 


3 CD 



SL 5L 

CD CD 

o o 
OO 

"D TJ 
CD CD 

3 3 

oo ^ £ 

— O ~ 

O 3 

3 CO 

CO 

O 3 CO 
3 CO 
CO 



-* -j. rororo-^cococorororo 

CO CO <£^uCOCD|k^(D(D^ 

8 8 8888888888 



01 01 

=! en 
O o. CD 



? 5 5' 





J> 


<J0 




.^ 


— L 


o 


CD 


— i 








</» tV! 


CO 


O 


o 


O 


o 


-1 


o 


w 




►— ' 







D TJQOC0QOC0O 

' c c 5' _ 

oi oj_co (/) 

' CJl CD 3^ 

■ <s<5 D 

■ i < - :£ 

§ * <m 

n° CO 

1 J 01 f~i — 



< 

CD 


Q. Qi 

co -» 


T) 


CD * 


O 


o •< 


i 


-> TJ 


CD 


en CD 


o 


8 o 
9- o 


CD 


CD = 


u 


t 3 


CD 


CD 



01 01 ^ 

£°°* 

°? = 00 

< m ; 



> 
< 

CD 

oT 

CT 
CD 



o 

> 

</></></> </> v> v, 00 

U UMUK] Mr 
CO to A A to * If. 

g 8 8 8 8 8 co 







5LO 



03 



O-o 

0) -T 



o 

ro ST 

Q. 

CO 
Ol 







cntoiw^ococo^cnui^cjto^o 



« o a< o < 

!? C G > G > 
® TJ 13 5° TJ SO 

~ ® 

M W tO (O 

+ + f + 

so go t?~ go 

h > a «> 

TJ T| 3=* TJ 



a 2 



so 
O 

H 






o«i 

^® 

2^ 

so 

o„ 

TJ 

H 
■• SO 
G~ 

■z 

O TJ 

>> 

W c/l 

^^ 

cn > 
>Z 
so « 

-< C/l 



I 



13 
O 
13 
Ol 

GO 
SO 

2 

Q 

GO 

> 

o 
o 



GO 

TJ « 
> 
SO I 



Tl 


n 


KJ 


m 
H 


H 


to 


n 




<-< 


a 


T) 


H 


m 


1- 




i/i 


1- 




< 




> ~ 


> 






Tl 




1 








> 




1 


m 






i-> 




Tl 


m 




1- 


H 




1- 


O 




+,« 






< 


•H 




> 


Tl 




50 


Z 




^ 


U 




H 


r/i 




X 


> 

O 




to 
H 


« 




m 



TJ« > X 

woogg 
^ s 

GO 13 

>" 

h o, 
o w ^ £2 

Bi ra 2Z 
V Q 
H 

a 
i 

"~ i 
i 



z 

Q 

GO 
H 
> 
O 

• w 



§•■ 

DC 
--a 



2r cu 

re y 

o ^ r 

S. c 

CT. en 

O m 

3 D- 



Tl 2 
05 

HS 
I" 
■ * 

o^ 

_ «• 3 en 



BJ 3 

i— & 1 
Bi 3 

1-1 N«< 

00 TJ 

S E. 

•-i re 

O „ 

00 re 

IT 1 X 

01 n- 

■ 3 &- 



3 
00 



o 
aa 
™ r 

»-r\ 01 

5' 2 

re tj 
J P-C 
it Si 
2"re 



o tre 



K) n jt 

jiia £ 

01 cu 

Jnn t 

^ "> ° 

O >-i ^ 

en < 

3 3 n 

Q . *-^ M 

vi 0?' ° 

■i^ Ti g 

H oi 

? *3 2. 
«;• Htj 
-IE. 

2 to re 

5- ra en 

V ™ T 

^* , . "I 

2 »■ 5' 

3 C. 00 
re «3 en 

O 00 o 

»-r* en t 



WtJ 

re cj 
re - 

$ 3 



3" _ 
0i ST 
< 3 
re 

cx u 

re 

12:00 

S <' 
O- 3 

re tj 
re >a 
3 CS 



3 *< 00 
2 0C 
5 C W 
^00 
g 3 P 
5 re 

re s 

D. 

01 "■ 3 



" en J| ex "" 



a.," 



c 
3 
3 
EJ 



cr 
01 



ft S-sTK T 



01 en 

P-c 2 



H<<; 



3 fc 
»-r» re 

s -■ 



01 

1 J f*D 

01 

en 

2 -1 



en 

(J- jr* 

01 o 
^3 

01 



n 3 01 n 

S" S =" ° 
01 ™ a. 3 
►iff.- 3 
01 



-■ n-~ 01 

3- 
01 ttj ; 

2^3 






c 

-1 

re 

<f 

re 

a. 

re 



>2 



re 



a 

< >-rt -T- 

1> IT ff 

5 ™ 3 

3.^ 



01 
9-1. 

§"° ° 

en 



01 

"■ l-U IV I-. 

S !fi 3. 

3 2 00 en 

en re g. o 

01 i? " 
3 ^ 



3 "0 

3 01 T - 



(1 Si 

2 5'S 

re 00 ™ 
01 



re H 
01 re 



en t en 



"" " 3 3 X 

ff. _ ff.O0 7t IT 



en 



en 5' "• 

ff 00 O 
3. en 

3 ->* tr 

fm 1 — 



00 



cr 

re 

a. 



01 



$ 

o 
Z ° 

CL 3 



„ c 

a 
« 01 c. 

< 0- o 

re Q- 3 



3 



01 

9- re v, 

&- -■ - 1 
re re 

O- en n- 

^ re 

"• P en 

O 01 IT 

E^£ 
n n co 



f*r cu 



re <■ „ 
"1 < 3 

S. S-e 
o^ 3 

"-cr 

«. 2 re 
ff O -j 
O n- en 



ft) 3-^ fT> 
^ CD 3 CO 

2. ^r O g 
^S'tJ ff. 

^^ 
" ~°° 

t 3 3 "* 
re C 3 en 

2r3 Ei ° 
O re "•■ ff. 
C 2. 3- 3 
en n 1 00 



O ^ 
-1 < en' 

S re 1 
n 3 re 

s--° 

re e 
01 3 3. 

en " re 
c <> CL 
^ <„, 
S- re g 
ff 3 
3- 3 Q- 

<N re ft 
• Q. ^ 
. 3 

00 



n re 
3 3 

TJ C 



;(X) 
H 

ac 



a SI 



CO rr 

3" ° a 

3'crS. 
00 re 1 



ff cr 
g-< 

00 3 

»T^ O 

01 

n ,3 

re 

^ 3 
en 



ca 

■"§ I 
re cr 



< 






re^^ 

re jr* 

re 

C ffj 
en oT 
re :< 



en 

S" c 



CS re < 2r 



Htj 
O -1 
3 O 
1 1 



* 


a: 


a 


TJ 


t->. 


a 


Ul 




-3 


-i 










H 


O 


^* 


Ul 


ri 


Ti 












a 

-i 


a 
5' 


Tl 
O 


IT 

r," 


TO 

sa. 


pa 

H 


en 


TO 


3 


I 



> 
> 

CO 

^ 5 



o 3- 

re re 
►n 

s » 



AS 5 

co re 2 



G 

^> 

H 50 

1 to Q 
1 d ""i 

«o 

1 H SO 
£? D H 
> >K 

1 h r 

t w — 



CO n 

^ ^ 2 _ 

re » c r-t s. 5 



„2. a 



3- 3 
re 00 



01 



01 



01 TJ 
3 re 

a. 2 

01 



^2 

*ft en 

si 



en tr) y 2. re — 

cr t 

en ... 

t, 3 

°TJ 



S.S* 

3' en 
00 jj 

V) 5' 

.00 



3 
01 

re re 

3^ C 
re O 



01 



a s- 

O """^ 

mOS. 

V H°" 

. IS 
o 

m? a. 

01 O IT 

rr "1 3- 

re a. 5; 



re 
o 



i-t re 

00 „ 

. re 

C 3 



01 01 
3 Q. 
Q-re 

s 3 

o 0Q 



H 




O 




> 


00 


m 


eji 


j_ 


n 


< 


u 


> 




50 


j 



Tl 


rn 


3 

0. 








n> 






0. 


-^ 


CO 


3 


3 


iU 






^r 


3 



3 


H 


tl 




> 




H 




PI 



en ^ 



; 3* en 
' — ' re „ 

-v- 3- 

-.?» 

m o Z 
ff- SI re 

re „. 
re en ff 

3- ™ 3- 

01 x s; 

™ re re 

01 G en 

n 3 ff 

IT IT 2 

re re 3 

1-1 Q-,5 
en .00 



TJ ff. 
~ O 

3 
re Ei 
re " 

a- 

3 



3- re 



re re 2 

IT Tl S 



S T 



re 

a. 



en 3 

n re re 

m 5' 3 

O 1 

> 3 os 

H 5- ft 

• re 3 



01 



01 

re 


cr 


en cjo 


re 


re 3- 


a. 

re 

Ti 

3' 


H 

d 


3 " 
re ff. 


> 


re re 




H 


t ? 




3 

en 


m 


3" O 




re "t 




< "- 


j? 




Fl 


ID 




re CS 



t is oth 
GETD 
the da 


la- 
re 


1r>™ 


re 

T 


" H T 


00 


han 
E wi 
date 


3- 


O 



t >r re t 



w — re 

00 cl < 

B.B-S 

an* 3 
? W n 

1— 1 ^ ^T* 

T, Q- 5; 



5 ff 

^ re 

re c: 

-1 3 

Ei w 
O 

"i n 
O 

— 3 

— TJ 



$ 3 

re ti- 
re ff. 
3 O 
_ 3 
9" 
re -r 
„ 3- 

$ n 

o t 

XI o 

C " 1 

O CL 

re tj 

en S- 

_ 01 



re re 



•=T 



re cs 
Cu n 



5T 
re 
>< 
cr 
o 
01 



re <" en 



re 3- 
3. re 
^r 3 

cr 

00 2 

? H 

Ei. re 

re 

c 

"1 T 

t re 
re en 
x ' 



Ff Cj 
re tn 



o 

g en 

IT O 

3-TJ 
re en 



^J. 


fft 


1 1 




00 


z 




Tl 


u. 


r, 




H 


01 










en 




3 


01 

3 


n 


O 








cr 


cr 


re 


re 






? 


en 


(11 


*-t 


*< 






3 





00 


T-, 


en 


00 
re 


01 


ff 


n 


3 



o 

3 
'00 



TJ 01 
01 
H ri ■ 

3 °« 

cr cr 2 
re ST Cu 

2. n 
^•2 3 

2. 

rr Cfl 

"> 5T 

3 T, 
01 a, 

^s re - 

►n 

Cu " 
re 

01 3 

1 3" 
2. re 
00 2 

^r en 



CUTJ 

re "i 

T» O 



TJ 01 *f> 

•"1 " ' ' 

o 
3 

TJ 



re 
< x 

2. re 

ff. n 

£ 

ff, re 

3 T 

re 



a. o 



01 
3 
' cr 
Ti re 



3 x "" 
9"1 ° 

csis 



-m re 
cT Z 

en C 

C H 
en ^ 

Cu 
t re 
O 3: 

3 

< re 

< Cu 



— 1 


re 


cr 
re 


< 
re 




en 







01 


3 


-1 

re 


cr 


C 


3 


-1 


01 


3 



ff 3 



C/i CD 



»-i^ cr _> en < 



I' 3- 

3 01 

►1 
01 

O n 



O 3 
00 00 



T "I «1 



^_5 " 1 <-> 

5"° < 



TJ 3 
C TJ 



re 
x 

Cu t 
re t 
1 o 

5- Ff 

re re 



01 
g ** 

en 01 ' 

3 



01 

3 
Cu 



We know 
the Atari 800. 



The experts at ComputerLand 
would like you to meet the com 
puter that leads two lives. By 
day, the Atari 800 is a hard 
working business tool. By 
night, it's a stimulating 
educator and fascinating 
entertainer. 

On the job, the Atari 800 
is a management tool. 
It can help you plan and 
control by providing 
timely reports on accounts 
payable and receivable, 
inventory control, and 
a wide array of other 
business and financial management functions. 

At home, it can teach more than 15 separate 
subjects, from Accounting and Algebra to U. S. 
History It's a video blackboard that teaches, 
asks questions, then tells you if you have the 
right answers, so you learn at your own pace. 
It can also turn your TV set into a playground 
for some of the most challenging and enjoy- 
able computer games you've ever played. 
And help run your household — manage 
your budget, balance the checkbook, 




^B sophist: 

Let tis 



keep tax records, analyze 
investments, even organize 
your recipe file. 

The Atari 800 is the heart 
of a whole family of compu- 
ter peripheral equipment 
and accessories including 
Atari's unique plug-in 
Memory Modules. So it can 
grow as your needs and 
interests grow It's fully 
programmable and comes 
equipped with the Atari 
800 Basic Language 
Cartridge. But with all its 
sophistication, the Atari 800 
is simple, even 
for people who 
have never used a 
computer before. 



introduce 

^^ Stop by ComputerLand and 

^K^P^^^^f^f get a thorough introduction 
^^m ^LJ^^ to the computer that leads 

W ^^ ^^k# two lives. 
Wm It could enrich your own life. 



ComputerLand 

H Over 150 stores worldwide. 
For the stores near you, call (800) 227-1617 ext. 1 18. 
From California call (800) 772-3545 ext. 118. 
From Hawaii and Canada call collect (415) 930-0777 
In Europe call Luxembourg 43-54-55. 



Circle 104 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



163 



Articulate Automata: 

An Overview of Voice Synthesis 



Kalhryn Fons and Tim Gargagliano 
1394 Rankin St 
Troy MI 48084 



The time has arrived for computers to begin speaking 
for themselves! We discussed some basic techniques for 
using the TRS-80 Voice Synthesizer in the October 1979 
BYTE ('The TRS-80 Speaks," page 113). Response from 
readers showed many were interested in a more detailed 
look at voice synthesis. The information presented here is 
concerned with the basic theory of voice synthesis and 
the basic procedures involved in constructing a vocabu- 
lary. The type of synthesis we focus on is electronic 
phoneme synthesis. A phoneme is a basic unit of sound 
from which speech can be constructed. 

Voice-Synthesis Technology 

During the past two decades, almost every aspect of 
computer technology has progressed through several 
generations of advancement. A relatively recent addition 
to this list is speech synthesis. The area of computer 
technology which would seem to gain most from speech 
synthesis is the man-to-machine interface. This is an area 
which remains in need of a great deal of development. 
Today, computers play a role in almost everyone's life, 
yet we rely on a group of specialists to control the com- 
puters. If computer technology is to continue to advance, 
there will be a strong need for the inexperienced user to 
communicate directly with the computer. It seems ob- 
vious that the man-to-machine interface will be one of the 
biggest challenges facing this industry in the 1980s. 

Another problem confronting computer users is visual 
confusion and/or saturation. This can occur after watch- 
ing a video monitor or scanning a printout for hours at a 
time. Part of this problem can be eliminated by including 
a nonvisual output channel in the computer system. The 



About the Authors 

The authors are both employed by the Votrax Division of Federal 
Screw Works in Michigan. Kathryn Fons is a speech scientist; Tim 
Gargagliano is a computer engineer. Both have done extensive research 
in language-processing systems and have worked on the Votrax text-to- 
speech algorithm. They have a special interest in voice synthesizers in 
relation to the needs of the handicapped and invite inquiries at the ad- 
dress shown above. 



obvious choice is voice, since most people normally com- 
municate verbally. In a number of situations, the serial 
nature of voice output is more desirable than parallel 
data from a printout or video screen. 

A number of applications are already using voice syn- 
thesis. Among these are telephone order-entry systems, 
telephone access systems, reading machines and ter- 
minals for the blind, communicators for the verbally im- 
paired, and computerized dispatching. 

Physiology of Speech 

The production of speech in the human vocal system 
begins with a source of acoustical excitation to drive the 
vocal tract. There are two kinds of excitation: periodic 
and random. The first type of excitation is a pulse train 
caused by the vocal folds blowing apart and collapsing 
under lung pressure (see figure 1 on page 166). The pulse 
train is rich in harmonic content due to its sharp wave 
shape. The second type of excitation is noise (frication) 
caused by air passing over the articulators (tongue, 
cheeks, lips, teeth, etc) with the vocal folds open. 

Phonemes containing periodic excitation are called 
voiced phonemes (eg: the vowel I a I). Phonemes contain- 
ing only frication are said to be unvoiced (eg: the conso- 
nant ///). It is also possible for a voiced phoneme to con- 
tain frication (eg: the consonant Izl). 

The human vocal tract is formed from resonant 
cavities including the mouth and nasal cavities which re- 
spond to input excitation by filtering the input. At any 
given time, placement of the articulators determines the 
frequency response of the vocal tract. Generating speech 
from the input excitation involves sequentially varying 
the frequency response of the resonant cavities in the 
vocal tract. This is done by movement of the articulators. 
The vocal tract is a fairly complex time-variant filter net- 
work. 

Speech is composed of several bands of frequencies 
called formants (see figure 2). Each formant varies in 
position, amplitude, and quality with respect to time. A 
static sound, such as a continuous vowel, is produced by 
moving the air through the vocal tract and over the ar- 
ticulators, which are appropriately positioned to create 



164 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 105 on inquiry card. 




THIS COULD BE THE START OF 
SOMETHING SMALL. 



At Micropolis, we make a big 
deal over our small deals, too. 

Because we believe there 
should be a place in the mar- 
ketplace for the small systems 
integrator who doesn't order 
thousands of units at a time. And 
we do everything we can to take 
the big headaches out of building 
small systems for vertical markets. 

When you ask us for help, we 
don't just slap a brochure in your 
hand, give you a plant tour, and 
show you out the back door. We 
actually work with you to get 
your system to market. 

The single fact is, nobody 
can help systems integrators with 



a broader range of high capacity, 
high performance, high reliability 
51/4" floppy and 8" rigid disk 
products than we can. We offer 
storage modules, enclosures, 
power supplies, S-100 & SBC-80 
controllers, cables and connec- 
tors, interfaces, single & multiuser 
8080/Z-80 operating systems & 
disk BASIC software, documenta- 
tion and tech training. And we 
offer as much or as little as you 
need, from complete sub-systems 
at the start to OEM drive and 
controller manufacturing licenses 
as you grow. 

When you deal with Micropo- 
lis, you avoid a lot of the expense, 



inconvenience and delay of try- 
ing to solve your own packaging, 
interfacing and system software 
development. 

For more information about 
our system integrator program, 
call Jim Molenda at extension 330. 
He'll be glad to tell you all about it. 

Because we're Micropolis. 

And we've got big ideas for 
small system integrators. 



MICROPOLIS 

In the US: 21329 Nordhoff Street. 
Chatsworth, CA 91311 • 213/709-3300 
In Europe: Micropolis International 
(U.K.) 0734-860817 Telex 851847395 



Circle 106 on inquiry card. 



Kill Surges 
Like Lightning! 



,"*' i ■*» •••*''<_ 




Permanent protection for small computers, communi- 
cations, medical and other sensitive electronic equip- 
ment. Surge Sentry works in parallel with the power 
line to shunt destructive power surges in picoseconds! 
Triggers at 10% above the nominal peak voltage. 

At $89.50, it's less than the cost of a service call. 
Easy to install for immediate protection. Several 
models to choose from to fit your specific application. 

For details and a free brochure, call or write: 

RKS 
ENTERPRISES, INC. 

643 South 6th Street, San Jose, CA 951 12 
(408) 288-5565 

Dealer inquiries invited. 



pHK>Dqrq 

business programs 
for your micro 



Proforma Income Statement and Balance Sheet 



Managers' Budgeting Program 



Capital Investment Analysis 



$ 35.00 



Depreciation Method Comparison 



Histogram Formed From Set of Numbers 



$ 20.00 



Simple Loan Analysis 



$ 15.00 



Lease/Buy Analysis 



Make-Buy Decision Analysis 



$ 15.00 



Mortgage Analysis 



$ 15.00 



Sales Commission Report 



$ 15.00 



Sales Manager's Information System 



In BASIC — Source Listings 
Licensing Only 

Send for Our Catalog 



i 



« 



oho oqrrq prooucti ODSpotpTnon 

14600 Detroit Avenue • Lakewood, Ohio 44107 
Call [216] 221-9000 



I 
J 



(la) 



/ \ 




/l[\ 




y \ 



COLLAPSED 

PRESSURE 
BUILDS 


BLOWN APART 

VOLUME OF 
AIR EMITTED 


COLLAPSED 

PRESSURE 
BUILDS 


(lb) 

AIR 
PRESSURE 







Figure 1: Periodic excitation of the human vocal tract starts 
with the vocal .folds repeatedly opening and closing (la), 
regulating air flow from the lungs. This results in a pulse train of 
air (lb) which passes through the resonant cavities of the mouth 
and nasal passages. 



AMPLITUDE 




F0RMANT 1 
CENTER FREQUENCY 



F0RMANT 2 
CENTER FREQUENCY 



FREQUENCY 



Figure 2: Speech is composed of several bands of frequencies 
known as formants. Shown is a generalized formant envelope 
for the first two formants. 



that sound. During the production of a word, the ar- 
ticulators are constantly moving from one phoneme posi- 
tion to another. This sequencing of the articulator move- 
ments is one reason why each sound in the sequence in- 
fluences every other sound around it. Note that the 
change in articulator positions does not occur in a single- 
step fashion, but rather in a continuous movement from 
one target position toward another. The frequency 
response of the vocal tract is in flux between the target of 
the last phoneme and the current phoneme. The acous- 
tical changes that occur during the transition are referred 
to as dynamic articulations. They are important to the 
production of intelligible speech — human or synthetic. 
Without dynamic articulation, speech becomes choppy 
and often unintelligible. 



166 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 107 on inquiry card. 



Circle 108 on inquiry card. 



Q«MC 



THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN TOYS AND 
TOOLS IN MICROCOMPUTERS AND 
COMPONENTS. 



17 7/8 W x 11 3/8 H X 18 3/4 D 

SI 00 bus 

IEEE Std. Z80 processor card 

Shugart SA1004 Winchester disk (8.4 

MB formatted) 

Shugart 801 R 8" Floppy disk drive for 

file loading and backup 

64KB Dynamic RAM 

2 Serial and 3 Parallel Ports 

CP/M 2.2 Operating System - Std. 

Complete Documentation 

OASIS Multiuser operating system - 

Optional 

LIST PRICE $7,650 



17 7/8 W x 11 3/8 H x 18 3/4 D 

S100 bus 

IEEE Std. Z80 processor card 

2 Shugart 801 R Disk Drives 

(Approx. 1MB formatted) 

64KB Dynamic RAM 

2 Serial and 3 Parallel Ports 

CP/M 2.2 Operating System - Std. 

Complete Documentation 

OASIS Multiuser operating system ■ 

optional 

LIST PRICE $4,450 



SYSTEM 80W 




SYSTEM 80 




NNC Z80 CPU Board 




Totally IEEE SI 00 Standard 

2 Serial Ports 

3 Parallel Ports 
Vectored interrupts 
Real time clock 

2716 Zapple Monitor PROM 
I/O Cable for Serial Ports 

LIST PRICE $495 




IMIMC 

ELECTRONICS 



15631 Computer Lane, Huntington Beach, CA 92609 

Ph. (714) 895-8000 TWX (910) 596-2360 




Today one dollar buys 
% of a business phone call 




Today one dollar buys 

6% readers who actually see 

your sales message. 




As your selling dollar buys 
less and less, it pays more and 
more to advertise in 
McGraw-Hill magazines. 

As prices keep going up and up, 
McGraw-Hill magazines help 10.8 million 
decision-makers keep costs down. 

For example, Chemical Week told 
chemical processing managers and pro- 
fessionals how exports credits could 
lower their debt-servicing costs. And 
Engineering News-Record showed the 
construction industry how to cope with 
the destructive effects of the 1981 federal 
budget. 

By helping 10.8 million readers solve 
their inflation problems, we help you 
solve yours. 

Today, the price of reaching one 
potential customer in McGraw-Hill 
magazines is only 16 s . 1 This compares to 
a cost of $6.07 for sending a business let- 
ter, 2 over $3. 50 for a business phone call, 3 
and an in-person sales call which, believe 
it or not, now costs $137. 02. 4 

In times like these, when everything 
costs more, you may be tempted to 
spend less on your advertising budget. 
But our Laboratory of Advertising Per- 
formance (LAP) Report #5262 demon- 
strates that "Industrial companies that 
maintained or increased their advertising 
expenditure during the 1974-75 recession 
enjoyed higher sales growth than those 
that cut advertising." Write 1221 Avenue 
of the Americas, New York, N.Y. 10020 
for LAP Report #5262 today. And let us 
help you make your advertising more 
efficient, as the price of all other selling 
tools becomes more expensive. 

'•ne reader-noted impression in the average McGraw-Hill publication. 
2 The Darlnell Institute of Business Research. 3 "Telephone Marketing* 
by Murray Roman. P. 87, McGraw-Hill 1976. 4 Laboratory of Advertising 
Performance Report #8013.5, McGraw-Hill Research. 

McGraw-Hill Magazines 



m 



With inflation, 
we're an even better buy. 




Photo 1: A selection of voice synthesizers. Top left: Votrax ML- 
I multilingual synthesizer. Bottom left: phonetic keyboard for 
controlling a synthesizer without the use of a computer. Right 
top to bottom: Radio Shack TRS-80 Voice Synthesizer, Votrax 
VS6 synthesizer, Votrax VSK single-board voice synthesizer. 
Not shown: Votrax SC01 single-chip voice synthesizer. 




Photo 2: An electronic analog of the human vocal tract using 
filters, oscillators, and noise-source modules. Control of these 
circuits requires an understanding of the static and dynamic 
parameters of human speech. 




Photo 3: A spectrum analyzer display of a static phoneme. The 
X axis is frequency; the Y axis is amplitude. 



The Electronic Equivalent of the Vocal Tract 

An electronic analog of the human vocal tract can be 
constructed using filters, oscillators, and noise-source 
modules (see photo 2). Control of these modules is com- 
plicated, and requires measuring the static and dynamic 
parameters of human speech. 

The study of speech parameters requires some complex 
instruments. Speech is most frequently considered in 
terms of frequency composition, rather than waveforms 
measured as a function of time. Therefore, analysis of 
speech is typically carried out in the frequency domain. 
This requires instruments that are able to measure and 
plot frequency, amplitude, and time in various relation- 
ships. A spectrum-analyzer scope can display a picture of 
amplitude versus frequency for an instant in time (see 
photo 3). This provides accurate measurement of energy 
distribution among the frequencies of a static sound. 

Another type of spectrum analyzer used in the study of 
speech is a voiceprint machine. This device provides a 
picture of amplitude versus frequency versus time which 
is collapsed into two dimensions (see photo 4 on page 
172). This type of printout allows us to study the dynam- 
ic characteristics of speech, such as phoneme duration 
and dynamic articulations. Notice how the frequencies 
continuously move during the transition from one pho- 
neme to the next. 

The area of computer technology 

that stands to gain most from 

speech synthesis is the 

man-to-machine interface. 

With these instruments, measurements can be made of 
the center frequencies of formants, their amplitudes, and 
their bandwidth. These measurements are the basis for 
designing the filter networks used in an electronic vocal 
tract. A model of a voice synthesizer in its simplest form 
is shown in figure 3. Depending on the desired speech 
quality, a varying number of parameters must be con- 
trolled. The number of bits stored for each parameter 
depends on the needed range and quantization tolerance 
of each parameter. To control this type of synthesizer, 
parametric data must be updated every 5 to 25 ms. The 
update frequency must be high enough to capture the 
parametric movements during phoneme transitions. 
While this synthesizer model can provide much flexibili- 
ty, it does so at the expense of a high bit-rate/storage re- 
quirement and complex vocabulary generation. 

The Votrax Phoneme Synthesizer 

A phoneme synthesizer can be modeled by adding a 
parametric control generator and a dynamic-articulation 
control unit. A model for a Votrax phoneme synthesizer 
with several options is shown in figure 4 on page 174. 
Rather than have the user update all the parameters of a 
phoneme several times during its production, the syn- 
thesizer automatically does it using an internal algorithm. 
Because the Votrax phoneme synthesizer is implemented 
totally in hardware, there is no requirement for an exter- 
nal computer/memory to generate phonemes. 

A high-quality phoneme synthesizer (with many inter- 
nal parameters) is no more complex for the user to con- 



170 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



64KMINI 




64K TWIN MIWI + 10M 5 1 A HD 



(8SLOTS-100) 
SINGLE USER 




(8SLOTS-10U) 
DRIVE EXPANSION 



DUAL PROCESSOR 




LINKED USERS 



64K-1 & 2MB FLOP 




/ 



B4K- 10MB -1MB FLOP 




CONVENTIONAL SINGLE USER SINGLE USER - HARD DISK SINGLE USER-LARGE DATA BASE 



35MEG-17MEGTAPE 






128K-2MB- FLOP 










QBi 




TWO USERMP/M® 



256K-10MB- FLOP 




2-4 USERMP/M® 



35-70MEG-17MEGTAPE 





2-8 USER MP/M® 



5X64K- 10MB -1MB FLOP 



5X64K-35MEG-17MEGTAPE 







DRIVELESS SLAVE NETWORK 






w 



MINI DRIVE SLAVE NETWORK 





1BUSER NETWORK CP/NET® 

with 8 Levels of Host Background Tasking 



lVTP5in«J" Emulation Available on ALL Systems: circle no on inquiry card. 

...j.TXCrt.niS, ^-^^^IBM3780, 2780, 3741, 2770 and SOLD ONL^ 

• Mnrp Add-Gw ^nIpQ^^^ BM3 ^2\PllJ^$,^J^A THRU DEALERSHIPS 

* IVlUrV J±lUL-\J¥l &llieb, ^"-^H)P-11, RSTS-E, TOPS MP*&C«NHAMMG.TM<*r^LReSEA^INC. 

* Less Duplicate Inventory. ^\ <«* Deck 10 & 20 

* Less Hassle from the Competition, 

* More "Yes" Answers to your Customers 






15392 Assembly Lane, 



Huntinton Beach, CA 92649 



Telephone: (714) 898-1492 TELEX:681-367 DELTMAR HTBH 




Photo 4: A voiceprint of the message "hello readers. " The X axis is time; the Y axis is frequency. Amplitude is displayed as a function 
of print density. 



/rite pi | ^> 



WRITE PN I ^> 



PARAMETRIC 



RAMETRIC I v. 

DATA BUS I y 




-A 



FS- FRICATIVE EXCITATION SOURCE 
PS- PERIODIC EXCITATION SOURCE 
FN- FILTER NETWORK 
a- VARIABLE AMPLIFIER GAIN 



Figure 3: A parametric speech synthesizer. The number of bits stored for each parameter depends on the needed range and the quan- 
tization tolerance of each parameter. In order to control this type of synthesizer, parametric data must be updated every 5 to 25 ms. 



172 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



ALL THESE FEATURES... 

IN THIS SMALL SPACE... 

AT THIS LOW PRICE! 



Greater computer power . . . fewer separate 
components . . . larger capability . . . simpler to 
operate . . .. modular maintenance . . . 

These are the unique benefits of the Quasar 
Data QPD-100 Floppy Disk Computer . . . plus 
unsurpassed reliability .. .plus 1 2-month warranty on all PC boards. 

Its highly reliable, industry-standard MFE drive is compact. 
Accepts both single AND double-sided disks. 

Upgradeable from the Z-80 T « microprocessor-based 
system to our Z8000® microprocessor-based system by simply 
plugging in extra PC cards. Hard disk and multi-user 
systems available. 

As your requirements grow, your QDP-100 can grow 
to fit them. 

The Quasar Data QDP-100H is a larger version with 
6-megabyte capacity; includes one double-sided floppy 
and one 5V4 microwinchester hard disk. 

Both the Quasar Data QDP-100 and QDP-100H are 
fully compatible with all standard terminals. 

Phone or write for descriptive bulletin and specifica- 
tions. And ask for a demonstration. Dealer inquiries invited. 

QUASAR DATA'S QDP-100 
COMPUTER SYSTEM. 



4,695 



18" wide 
16%" deep 
11" high 



Complete systems available 



"Z-BO and Z-28000 

are trademarks ol Zilog Corporation 

-CP/M andMP/M 

are trademarks ot Digital Research Corp 




10330 Brecksville Road, Brecksville (Cleveland), Ohio 44141 

Phone: 216/526-0838 / 526-0839 
Telex: 241596 



Circle 111 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 173 





f 


01 

o 

H 
< 

at 

LU 
Z 
UJ 

o 

-J 
o 

ft: 

Z 
o 
o 

o 

ft: 
1- 
UJ 

s 

< 
ft: 

<c 

0. 



p 

T 
1 


N 
A 
L 




0£ 
LU 

_l 
_J 

o 

\- 

z 
o 
o 

z 
o 

1- 
< 

o 
1- 

< 

i 

« 
z 

o 


p 

T 
I 


N 
A 
L 




























PHONEME 
COMMAND WORDS 


N 

P 
A 
R 
A 
M 
E 
T 
E 
R 
S 


• 

• FILTER CONTROL 
PARAMETERS 

• 












PHONEME 










SELECT < 






• • • 
' J 




6 BITS 
























FN 






( 








X< 








FS 




«r> — ► 




























«^_rf 








psh 


a2^> — •> 




st 






f 
































OPTIONAL 




,, 




PITCH / 


* 


• 














2-3 BITS 










AMPLITUDE 


1 










1 BIT 










RATE 
2 BITS 








1 * 


•S- FRICATIVE EXCITATION SOURCE 




I * 




3 S- PERIODIC EXCITATION SOURCE 
FN- FILTER NETWORK 
a- VARIABLE AMPLIFIER GAIN 










, 


r 








TIMER 


DUR 


ATION 

r 




PHONEME 


* 




REQUEST 

























Figure 4: A basic Votrax voice synthesizer. A phoneme command word is presented to the unit on the positive edge of the phoneme- 
request signal. The parametric control generator greatly reduces the synthesizer data consumption by calling out N parameters from 
only 6 bits. The dynamic-articulation controller generates continuous parametric transitions at phoneme boundaries. 



trol than a minimal unit because both utilize the same 
phoneme call-out procedure. A command word is used to 
signal phoneme production. The command word for a 
phoneme includes phoneme-select data and optional 
pitch, rate, and amplitude data. Typically, there are 
sixty-four phonemes produced, each requiring a 6-bit 
command word. 



There are areas where a person 

must interact with a computer, but 

where the use of a visual output 

channel is inappropriate, 

unavailable, or ineffective. 

A simple digital controller or microcomputer is all that 
is needed for vocabulary retrieval. In the phoneme syn- 
thesizer we have modeled here, the duration of each pho- 
neme is controlled by an internal timer. At the end of an 
interval, the timer output momentarily goes low, request- 
ing the interface to send the next phoneme command 
word. This phoneme request signal can be used to gener- 
ate an interrupt request to a microprocessor or clock a 
command word out of a FIFO (first-in/first-out) buffer, 
an interface, or ROM (read-only memory). See figure 5 
on page 176. 



Several types of Votrax synthesizers are available. A 
recent addition to this family is the SC01, the first single- 
chip phoneme synthesizer; it represents a significant 
breakthrough in speech-synthesis technology. Contained 
in a 22-pin dual-inline package, this low-power CMOS 
(complementary metal-oxide semiconductor) synthesizer 
can be easily used on a printed-circuit board. Latched 
parallel inputs permit direct connection to a microcom- 
puter data bus. A master clock input on the SC01 permits 
a variety of voice effects and highly textured sound ef- 
fects to be generated. 

Phonetic Programming 

There are a few specific speech rules that dictate how 
phonemes are sequenced for intelligible speech output. 
Pronunciation guidelines and symbols, established by the 
IPA (International Phonetic Association), are often used 
to identify the phonemes and the altered or adapted units 
of sound (called allophones). These are used because the 
standard alphabetic characters may have more than one 
sound associated with a single symbol. Using phonetic 
guidelines, phonemes and/or allophones are combined to 
form the symbol sequence that represents the spoken 
word in a language. The written symbology, however, 
does not always directly translate into the sounds avail- 
able in a phoneme synthesizer. Thus, a sequence of the 
synthetic phonemes constructed from the phonetic guide- 

Text continued on page 180 



174 Febraary 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 112 on inquiry card. 




Let Crystal Be Your Guide on the Road to Adventure 



APPLE 



PET 




:V5TRS-80 




If you are the owner of an Apple, Pet, Atari, orTRS-80 and also have a disk drive, we have some of the finest fantasy software in the world for you. For 
those systems with sound capability, our games have Crystalsonics — a newly developed concept in tone generation. For Apple and Atari there are 
some truely superlative hires graphics. In fact. Sands of Mars offers 3-D graphics and flight simulation landing. It includes over 186 full screen hires 
maps of Martian terrain. 



We now serveover 30 countries around the world. Dealership and distributor inquiries are welcome. Special rates are available on larger orders. We 
have 48 hours delivery to anywhere in the continental United States. We are also looking for experienced programmers and new game software. Our 
royalty terms are extremely generous. If you have what you consider to be a quality product that you would like to have markete^please give us a call. 
If you would like to be a member of the Crystal User's Club and be eligible to receive free user contributed software, please submit a program of any 
type and a $10.00 membership fee. In return you will receive a Crystal Membership Card, a copy of The House of Usher, and a year's subscription to 
Crystal Vision. 



HOUSE OF USHER — Wander through a haunted house. Rooms and LAS AR WARS — Crystalsonics - hires graphics - protect the planet 

scenery in 15 color lo-res graphics. We offer a $100.00 prize to the first earth from a full scale alien invasion. Over three types of invading craft 

person to solve the mystery. Over 200 monsters, objects and perils. and hundreds of approach simulations. The games speaks for itself. 

$24.95 $29.95 

GALACTIC QUEST — Crystalsonics - hires graphics -the ultimate WORLD WAR III — Crystalsonics - hires graphics - for you war game 

space adventure. Vegan warships attack and fire in real time Simula- freaks, this is it! Iran and Irag - nuclear missiles - hires J scene bat- 

tion. Land on and trade with over 64 star systems in 3 galaxies. Allow tlefield - demolition squads - tanks - strategy. Custom designed for two 

6-12 hours for play. $29.95 arm chair generals. Save the world from nuclear holocaust! $29.95 

o 

SUMER — Travel back through time to ancient Sumeria in the middle BENEATH THE PYRAMID — Crystalsonics - hires graphics - brand 

east. You are given 10 years as king to restore this kingdom to prosper- new! Explore the pyramids and miles of winding secret tunnels beneath 

ity. Plant, war, consult the astrologers -very hard to beat! $19.95 them. Enter at the Sphinx and find the hidden treasure chamber. All in 

° „ hires with very aggressive monsters and many many perils. To win you 

must find the golden cat and your way out!!! $29.95 

LITTLE CRYSTAL — Especially designed anthology for children from ages 5 to 80. Includes Mr. Music which turns your Apple into an organ of 
sorts, gunk where two weird monsters shoot it out and many other educational as well as entertaining programs for children. True unique addition for 
kids who always feel left out of Dad or Mom's computerizing. $39.95 

SANDS OF MARS — What we at Crystal believe to be the finest adventure game available to date. In addition to hires graphics and super tone 
routines where the user's system will support it, this game provides landing simulation, animation, and revolutionary 3-D graphics. It is the ultimate 
in space adventure and may take several weeks or months to play. It is the Oydessy of the Starship Herman on its maiden flight to Mars. The initial lift- 
off is animated and paddle controlled. The flight through space is in Hires 3-D Graphics with many animated scenarias. You must land your starship 
on Mars. It will lack enough fuel and supplies for a return voyage. You must lead your party through hundreds of Hires maps of Martian terrain and 
subterrainian passages. You then will secure adequate resources for take off, navigate your ship back to earth and attempt a successful touchdown. 
There is a mystery buried in the ancient city of Lemuria beneath the sands of Mars. We offer a $ 100. 00 prize to the first space gamer to discover it. 
Good luck! $39.95 



For more information you may write or call: 
Crystal Computer, 12215 Murphy Avenue, San Martin, California 95046 



(408) 683-0696 






(5a) 



L— NEW PHONEME 



■ NEW PHONEME 



(5b) 



DATA 
WRITE 



V 



DATA DATA 

IN F | F0 OUT 



SHIFT 
IN 



SHIFT 
OUT 



PHONEME 
COMMAND 



PHONEME 
SYNTHESIZER 



PHONEME 
REQUEST 



(5c) 



OUTPUT 
PORT 



COMPUTER 
DATA BUS 



A 



LATCH 



PHONEME 



WRITEl •*" 



IRQ' 



Lt 



Q CLR D 
Q CK 



FLIP-FLOP 



PHONEME 
COMMAND 



PHONEME 
SYNTHESIZER 



PHONEME 
REQUEST 



Figure 5: Interface characteristics. A new phoneme is sent on 
the positive edge of the phoneme-request signal (5a). A FIFO 
(first-in/ first-out) shift register (5b) provides an elastic buffer by 
shifting data in at a rate independent from the data being shifted 
out. Phoneme-request (5c) sets a flip-flop which generates an in- 
terrupt request (IRQ) to the microcomputer. When the com- 
puter writes the next phoneme command into the latch, the flip- 
flop is reset. 



Programming Phoneme Voice Synthesizers 

There are a number of steps involved in program- 
ming a voice synthesizer. Initially, you will probably 
have to frequently refer to table 1, which lists symbols 
and example words which represent sounds: 

•Select the words to be programmed. 

• Speak the words out loud. 

• Select the appropriate phonetic symbols to represent 
the sounds in the words. The number of phonetic sym- 
bols you use should equal the number of sounds 
counted when the words are spoken. 

• Enter the phoneme sequence into the synthesizer and 
listen to the speech output. Check the synthesizer's 
pronunciation for the appropriate duration of each 
syllable and rhythm of each word. The accent (or 
stress) placed on each word or syllable will help define 
the duration parameter. 

• Select the longer-duration vowel phoneme for the 
accented syllable and the shorter-duration vowel 
phoneme for the unaccented syllable. Reenter the pro- 
gram and listen to it again. 

• Adjust the program as many times as needed to 
achieve the desired pronunciation. This can be done 
by selecting different vowel-phoneme durations for the 
stressed vowel so that the durational relationship be- 
tween the syllables sounds correct (see table 3). You 
can also adjust the sound by inserting a transition 
allophone between main vowels and consonants to 
achieve smooth pronunciation (see tables 2 and 3). 



A few examples are: 

Word Initial Program 

move M-U-V 
family F-AE-M-L-E1 



Refined Program 

M-U1-U1-V 
F-AE1-EH3-M-L-Y 



harvest H-AH-R-V-I3-S-T H-AH1-UH3-R-V-13-S-T 



Phonetic Symbols 




Key Words 




Phonetic Symbo 


s 




Key Words 


Votrax 




IPA 






Votrax 


IPA 






B 




b 


bat - rub 




NG 


rj 




ring - drink • single 


D 




d 


dad - raid 












G 




9 


get - log 




R 


r 




race - hard - hair 


P 




P 


pack - flap - happy 




L 


I 




tow - /ate - call 


T 




I 


rip - par - asked 




W 


w 




wake ■ always - when - quit 


K 




k 


frill - kick 




Y 


J 




yard • berry 


DT 




t 


buffer 




A.A1.A2 


e, el,e2( 


ei) 


tame - pa/I - make 


Z 




z 


zap - haze - pans 




E,E1 


i, il 




beef - be - even 


ZH 




I 


pleasure - azure 




1,11,12,13 


i.il, i2, 


i3 


p/t - /n - sw/m 


V 




V 


van - pave 




0,01,02 


o, ol, o2 




for - torn - bold 


THV 




b 


the - smooth - mother 


U,U1 


u, ul 




move - school - June 


J 




^ 


job - jazz - age 




AE.AE1 


ae, ae1 




dad - pla/d 


S 




s 


soup - ask - pass • 


;ity 


AH,AH1,AH2 


a, a1, a2 




top - father 


SH 




/ 


sheep - fish - acfior 




AW,AW1,AW2 


o, 01, 02 




call - paw 


F 




f 


fa/ce - cuff - phone 


laugh 


EH,EH1,EH3,EH3 


e, el, e2, 


ii 


ready - leg - said 


TH 




e 


thing - math 




ER 


& 




third - heard • chum - over 


CH 




t/ 


cheese ■ march - match 


UH,UH1,UH2,UH3 


a, aI, a2, 


3 


cop - random • around - under 


H 




h 


hoop - have 




00,001 
IU 


u, ul 
lju) 




took - put - good - could 
you - music 


M 




m 


mat - dim 




AY 


tei) 




jade - made - cla/m 


N 




n 


no - son 




Y1 


(Jul 




you - music 


Table 1: 


Phoneme- 


conversion 


table. Shown are the 


Votrax and IPA (Internationa 


/ Phonetic 


Alphabet) phonetic symbols and 


example 


words that show the 


pronunciation of each 


sound. 











176 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 113 on inquiry card. 



THE FRONT RUNNER 

ALPHACOM SPRINTER 40 



40 COLUMN HIGH SPEED MATRIX PRINTER/PLOTTER 

GRAPHIC 280 XN DOT MATRIX. □ PRINT SPEED TO 240 LINES PER MINUTE. 
USES OLIVETTI PU 1840 THERMAL PRINTER. □ ROLL AND FAN FOLD PAPER FEED. 

SPRINTER 40 is a highly reliable printer/plotter providing long life-expectancy 

and low power consumption. It may be connected with TRS80, Apple II, Atari- 800, 

Commodore Pet, and all other computers, using standard interface. 




ALPHACOM 
DISTRIBUTORS: 



See us at CES, booth 2853. 



Pen-Tech Associates, Inc. Microlex International I/O Sales Inc. Sylex Corporation Kitchen & Kutchin Inc. 

1202 Eastchester Dr. 215 Park Ave. South 2551 Casey Ave. 4332 E. La Palma Ave. 428 Marrett Rd. 

High Point, N.C 27260 New York, N.Y. 10003 Mtn. View, CA 94043 Anaheim, CA 92807 Lexington, MA 02 1 73 

(919)883-9125 (212)677-8400 Tel. (415) 968-1080 Tel. (714) 528-4480 Tel. (617) 862-8230 





Front Vowels 


Medial Vowels 


Back Vowels 




Mouth 


Base Vowels 


E 

1 

A 

EH 
AE 


ER 
UH 


U 

00 



AW 

AH 




Closed 

t 

Open 


Vowel 

Allophones 

(durational) 


E1 

11,12,13 

A1.A2 

EH1,EH2,EH3 

AE1 


UH1,UH2,UH3 


U1 

001 

01,02 

AW1.AW2 

AH1.AH2 




Closed 

f 

Open 


Vowel 

Allophones 

(sound) 


Y1 (short, constricted E1) 
AY (short, relaxed E1) 


IU (between 
the 001 
and U1) 




Closed 


Table 2: Vowel phonemes are categorized here according to their place of production within the human vocal tract. Durational 
vowel allophones have a number following their symbol which indicates their durational relationship to the base vowel. (The suf- 
fix 1 indicates the longest duration; 3 indicates the shortest duration.) The Votrax phonetic symbols are used here. 



Consonants 



Voiced 

B,D,G 

Z,ZH,V,THV,J 

M.N.NG 

R.L.W.Y 



Voiceless 

P,T,K,DT 
S,SH,F,TH,CH,H 



Group Name 

Stop Plosives 
Fricatives/Affricates 
Nasals 
Semivowels/Glides 



Table 3: Consonant phonemes are listed here according to their voicing quality and grouped according to the manner in which 
they are produced. Note that all vowels are classified as voiced phonemes. 



Phoneme 




Phoneme 




Sequence 


Usage 


Sequence 


Usage 


D-J 


" j" "-like sounds. 


S 


Completes the phonetic sequence of a 




Example: Judge = D-J-UH3-UH1-D-J 




word being pluralized only when the root 
word ends in a voiceless sound other than 


T-CH 


"ch"-like sounds. 




S or SH. 




Example: Church = T-CH-ER-R-T-CH 




Examples: plants = P-L-AE1-EH3-N-T-S 
shops = SH-AH1-UH3-P-S 


PAO 


A short pause between words for rhythm. 
Example: Copy this list = K-AH1-UH3-P- 




laughs = L-AE1-EH3-F-S 




Y-PA0-THV-I3-I2-S-L-I1-S-T 


D 


Completes the phonetic sequence of 




Also used to separate stop-plosive sounds 




a word with a past-tense suffix only 




like "k"and "t" when they occur in se- 




when the root word ends in a voiced 




quence. Example: Correct = K-02-R-EH2- 




sound or a T. 




K-PAO-T 




Examples: smiled = S-M-AH1-Y-UH3-L-D 
scored = S-K-01-02-R-D 


PA1 


The first and last phoneme in the com- 
pleted sequence, used for maintaining the 




wanted = W-AH1-UH3-N-T-I3-D 




articulation of the first and last sound in 


T 


Completes the phonetic sequence of a 




the sequence. Example: The sequence is 




word with a past-tense suffix only when 




complete = PA1-THV-UH3-UH3-S-E1-K- 




the root word ends in a voiceless sound 




W-EH1-N-T-S-PA0-I3-I3-Z-K-UH1-P-L-AY- 




other than T. 




Y-T-PA1 




Examples: typed = T-UH3-AH2-Y-P-T 

matched = M-AE1-EH3-T-CH-T 


Z 


Completes the phonetic sequence of 




washed = W-AW-SH-T 




a word being pluralized. Used only when 




missed = M-I3-I1-S-T 




the root word ends in a voiced sound, an 








S, or an SH. (See table 3 for a list of 








voiced sounds.) 








Examples: cans = K-AE1-AE1-N-Z 








balls = B-AW-L-Z 








goes = G-01-U1-Z 








ashes = AE1-EH3-SH-I3-Z 








buses = B-UH3-UH1-S-I3-Z 






Table 4: Since a number of phonetic sequences consistently produce intelligible 


speech, they can be classified as phonetic pattern 


rules. The most 


consistent patterns are shown here. Other phonetic 


patterns are 


more flexible, and many specific "sound effects" 


can be created 


through experimentation. 







178 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



SuperSoft's 

Gallery of CP/M Mas^erwbrks 





SUPER-M-LIST: A complete, easy to use mailing list program 
package. Allows for two names, two addresses, city, state, zip and 
a three digit code tield lor added flexibility. Super-M-List can sort 
on any field and produce mailing labels direct to printer or disk file 
for later printing or use by other programs. Super-M-List is the 
perfect companion to TFS. Handles 1981 Zip Codes! 
Requires: 48K CP/M 
Supplied with complete user manual: $75.00 manual alone: $10.00 

TFS-Text Formatting System: An extremely powerful formatter. 
More than 50 commands. Supports all major features including: 
• left & right margin justification • user defined macros 

■ dynamic insertion from disk file • underlining and backspace 
TFS lets you make multiple copies of any text. For example: Per- 
sonalized form letters complete with name, address & other inser- 
tions from a disk file. Text is not limited to the size of RAM making 
TFS perfect for reports or any big job. Text is entered using CP/M 
standard editor or most any CP/M compatible editor. 
Requires: 24K CP/M 

Supplied with extensive user manual: $85.00 manual alone: $20.00 
Source to TFS in 8080 assembler (can be assembled using stan- 
dard CP/M assembler) plus user manual: $250.00 



TEXT PROCESSING 




DIAGNOSTICS I: Easily the most comprehensive set of CP/M compatible 

system check-out programs ever assembled. 

Tests: 

• Memory • CPU (8080/8085/Z80J • Terminal • Disk • Printer 
To our knowledge the CPU test is the first of its kind anywhere. Diagnostics 
I can help you find problems before they become serious. A good set of 
diagnostic routines are a must in any program library. Minimal re- 
quirements: 32K CP/M. Supplied with complete user manual: $75.00 Manual 
alone: $15.00 



DIAGNOSTICS II: Includes all of Diagnostics I, plus: 

• Every test is "submif'-able 

• A complete Spinwriter/Diablo/Qume test has been added 
(Serial Interface only) 

• Output may be logged to disk 

• Expanded memory test 

• Expanded terminal test 
Expanded disk test 

Diagnostics II provides the next level in system maintenance. 

Requires: 32K CP/M 

Price: $100.00 Manual only: $15.00 



SYSTEM MAINTENANCE 




**** ** A ntnt , **■****** A ^JP 



'TINY' PASCAL II: We still call it 'Tiny- but it's bigger and better than ever! This is 
the famous Chung-Yuen 'Tiny' Pascal with more features added. Features include: 

• recursive procedures/functions • integer arithmetic • CASE 

• FOR (loop) • sequential disk I/O • 1 dimensional arrays 

• IF...THEN...ELSE • WHILE • PEAK & POKE 

• READ & WRITE • REPEAT...UNTIL • more 

"Tiny" Pascal is fast. Programs execute up to ten times faster than similar BASIC 
programs. SOURCE TOO! We still distribute source, in 'Tiny' Pascal, on each 
discette sold. You can even recompile the compiler, add features or just gain in- 
sight into compiler construction. 

Requires: 36K CP/M. Supplied with complete user manual and source on discette: 
$85.00. Manual alone: $10.00 

STACKWORK'S FORTH: A full, extended Forth interpreter/compiler produces 
COMPACT, ROMABLE code. As fast as compiled FORTRAN, as easy to use as in- 
teractive BASIC. 
SELF COMPILING: Includes every line of source code necessary to recompile 

itself. 
EXTENSIBLE: Add functions at will. 
Z80 or 8080 ASSEMBLER included. 
Single license, OEM licensing available. 
Please specify CPU type: Z80 or 8080 
Supplied with extensive user manual and tutorial: $175.00 
Documentation alone: $25.00 

SSS FORTRAN: The SSS FORTRAN compiler is fast, efficient, and complete 
(full 1966 ANSI standard with extensions). The RATFOR compiler compiles into 
FORTRAN allowing the user to write structured code while retaining the 
benefits of FORTRAN. The FORTRAN supports many advanced features not 
found in less complete implementations, including: complex arithmetic, 
character variables, and functions. Complete sequencial and random disk I/O 
are supported. SSS FORTRAN will compile up to 600 lines per minute 1 Recur- 
sive subroutines with static variables are supported. ROMable "COM files 
may be generated. SSS RATFOR allows the use of contemporary loop control 
and structured programming techniques. SSS RATFOR is similar to FORTRAN 
77 in that it supports such things as: 

• REPEAT...UNTIL • WHILE - IF.. THEN... ELSE 
SSS RATFOR is supplied with source code in FORTRAN and RATFOR. 
System Requirements & Prices: 

SSS FORTRAN requires a 32K CP/M system. 
SSS FORTRAN with RATFOR: $325.00 
SS FORTRAN alone: $250.00 

RATFOR alone: $100.00 

(Sold only with valid SSS FORTRAN license) 



VWWH 



PROGRAMMING LANGUAGE 



sj^^gg^g jB 




UTILITIES I: A collection of programs that you will find useful and 

maybe even necessary in your daily work (we did!). 

Includes: 

GREP: Searches files for a specified string 

SORT: In core sort of variable length records 

CMP: Compare two files for equality 

PRINT: Formatted listings to printer 

PG: Lists files to CRT a page at a time 

. . . plus more . . . 
Requires: 24K CP/M 
Supplied with manual on discette: $60.00 

UTILITIES II: Many new programs not available elsewhere. Includes these 
"file" utilities: 

DIFF: Source comparitor 

PR: Powerful multicolumn output formatter 

CAT: Concatenate files 

RPL: Substitute strings in files 

. . . plus more . . . 
Requires: 24K CP/M $60.00 
Supplied with manual on discette 



UTILITIES f" 




TERM: A complete intercommunications package for linking your com- 
puter to other computers. Link either to other CP/M computers or to large 
timesharing systems. TERM is comparable to other systems but costs 
less, delivers more and source is provided on discette! With TERM you 
can send and receive ASCII and Hex files (COM too, with included conver- 
tion program) with any other real time communication between users on 
separate systems as well as acting as timesharing terminal. 

• Engage/disengage printer • error checking and auto retry 

• terminal mode for timesharing between systems 

• conversational mode • send files • receive files 
Requires: 32K CP/M 

Supplied with user manual and 8080 source code: $150.00 
Manual alone: $15.00 



1 INTERCOMPUTER COMMUNICATIONS! 



* 


... j ;"-. ; ' --' j . -'■>.... ' r' :c ■ ' ■■" \Jf' 




ANALI2A: An amazingly accurate 


: I : 


.-.-. 


simulation of a session with a 




'■.-/ 


psychiatrist. Better than the famous 




:'\ 


"ELIZA" program. Enlightening as 


.V. 




well as fun. An excellent example of 


■.-.' 


: 


Artificial Intelligence. 
Requires: 48K CP/M, CBASIC2 






Cost: $35.00 


■-- 


P- 


j ENTERTAINMENT \ / 3 


£ 



^ 


■.:"-... ,; '- ; : ' ... %&* -: ... '','.:'" Z > 


/ 


'•)} 


ZB000CROSSASSEMBLER:Supports: 
full ZB000 syntax, segmented and 






unsegmented mode, full 32-bil 


-.-.- 


V. 


arithmetic, hex output, listing output. 


: : : 


*.v 


"downloader" 


SB 




Requires: 56K CP/M $500.00 
1 year maintenance $300.00 


':-.■ 


■*Yi 


manual alone $ 50.00 


■*'■ 


$ 


■ . : <-' : -| Z8000too! I ™ ■• ft 


* 



ENCODE/DECODE: A complete software security system for CP/M. 
Encode/Decode is a sophisticated coding program package which trans- 
forms data stored on disk into coded text which is completely unrecog- 
nizable. Encode/Decode supports multiple security levels and passwords 
A user defined combination (One billion possible) is used to code and 
decode a file. Uses are unlimited. Below are a few examples: 

• databases • payroll files ■ programs ■ tax records 

Encode/Decode is available in two versions: 

Encode/Decode I provides a level of security suitable for normal use 
Encode/Decode II provides enhanced security for the most demanding 
needs. 
Encode/Decode I: $50.00 Encode/Decode II: $100.00 manual alone: $1 500 



SOFTWARE SECURITY | 



On line "Help" system provided with every program package. 



SuperSoft 

First in Software Technology circle m on inquiry card. 



CP/M Formats: 8" soft sectored, 5" Northstar, 5" Micropo- 
lis Mod II, Vector MZ, Superbrain DD/QD 



All Orders and General Information: 

SUPERSOFT ASSOCIATES 

P.O. BOX 1628 

CHAMPAIGN, IL 61820 

(217) 359-2112 

Technical Hot Line: (217) 359-2691 

(answered only when technician Is available) 

CP/M REGISTERED TRADEMARK DIGITAL RESEARCH 



Circle 115 on inquiry card. 



the POWER 

Of Your HP-85 or Commodore Pet/CBM With TNWs IEEE-488 Bus 
System Building Blocks... 




TNWs RS-232SERIAL INTERFACES 



Connect your PET/CBM to any RS-232 Serial Printer, Piotter, 
Terminal. Modem, or other device: 



CRT 



TNW-1000 
TNW-2000 
TNW-232D 



ONECHANNEL 
OUTPUT ONLY 



ONECHANNEL 
INPUTANDOUTPUT 



TWO CHANNELS, INPUT & OUTPUT 
12 RS-232 CONTROL SIGNALS 



$129 
$229 
$369 



TURN YOUR PET INTO ATERMINAL 

Access Timesharing Systems and Bulletin Boards with TNWs Pterm 
Software and full service telephone modem: 



TNW-103 



AUTO ANSWER/AUTO DIAL 
USE WITH DAA 



$389 



Pterm also works with acoustical couplers and other modems interfaced 
to the PET with the TNW-2000 or TNW-232D. Electronic mail and TWX 
Terminal programs also available. All units are addressable IEEE-488 
devices, complete with power supply cabinet, full documentation and one 
year warranty. 

TNW CORPORATION 

3351 Hancock St. • San Diego, CA. , 92110 (714)225-1041 

TWX910-335-1194 

Visa/Mastercharge Welcome • Dealer inquiries invited 




Not for sale in any 
bookstore! Not avail- 
able at any price ! 
The new Consumer 
Information Catalog ! 

It's the free booklet 
that lists over 200 
helpful Federal pub- 
lications; more than 
half, free. On topics 
like home repairs. 
Money management 



fpflbS. Generai Services Administration 
180 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Nutrition. Informa- 
tion that could help 
you to a better way 
of life. 

To get your free 
copy, just write : 

CONSUMER 

INFORMATION 

CENTER, 

DEPT E 

PUEBLO, COLORADO 

81009 



AE1-I3 



AH1-UH3 



Phoneme Sequence Usage 

AE1-EH3 The vowel sequence, for words requiring 

the AE sound, that creates smooth pro- 
nunciation transition from the vowel into 
the following consonant. Also used to 
create duration for the stressed syllable. 
Examples: admit = AE1-EH3-D-M-I1-I3-T 
dash = D-AE1-EH3-SH 

The vowel sequence for words requiring 
the AE sound followed by NG or another 
nasal sound. 
Example: hanger = H-AE1-I3-NG-ER 

The vowel sequence, for words requiring 
the AH sound, for smooth transition into 
other sounds. 
Examples: got = G-AH1-UH3-T 

father = F-AH1-UH3-THV-ER 

S-S Doubles the S phoneme when more dura- 

tion is desired, as at the end of a phrase 
or sentence. 
Examples: gas = G-AE1-EH3-S-S 

witness = W-I1-I2-T-N-I3-S-S 

D-J-J Doubles the fricative portion of the "J" 

sound sequence for emphasis. 
Examples: Germany = D-J-J-ER-R-M-I3-N-Y 
large = L-AH1-UH3-R-D-J-J 

Table 5: In voice synthesis, it is often desirable to lengthen 
or shorten a vowel or consonant sound at the end of a 
syllable, word, phrase, or sentence. Shown here are several 
of the most common "tricks" for creating such effects. 



Text continued from page 174: 

lines might produce an awkward, if not unintelligible, 
pronunciation of the word being translated. The pronun- 
ciation guidelines from any phonetic symbol system 
(IP A, Webster's Dictionary, Thorndike's Dictionary) can 
be used to establish a basic synthesized phoneme se- 
quence, but listening is the final step used to determine 
the selections for a refined phoneme sequence (see text- 
box, "Programming Phoneme Voice Synthesizers," on 
page 176). 

For the purposes of this article, all phonetic sequences 
are presented utilizing the Votrax Phonetic Symbol Sys- 
tem. This system is used because it utilizes characters that 
are" found on a standard computer terminal, as well as 
those needed for translation. 

Phonemes 

The sixty-four synthetic phonemes produced by a 
Votrax speech synthesizer are used here as the base syn- 
thetic-phoneme reference. The phonetic symbols repre- 
senting these sounds and example words are listed in 
table 1 on page 176. There are twenty-five different con- 
sonant sounds, thirty-six basic vowel and vowel-allo- 
phone sounds, and two pause phonemes. The sixty- 
fourth phoneme is called a zero-decode command pho- 
neme. It emits no sound, but can be used as a short inter- 
ruption. When you select the appropriate synthetic 
sounds and place them in a specific sequence, the speech 
synthesizer can produce any word in the English language 
(as well as many other languages). 

Vocabulary Storage 

Vocabulary storage requirements are dependent on the 



HOT WINTER PRICES ON PERSONAL 
COMPUTERS AND COMPONENTS. 



Look at this! 






Ohio Scientific 
Superboard II 

$299 



• It's the first complete computer 
system on a board. 

• Superboard II uses the ultra 
powerful 6502 Microprocessor 

• 8K Microsoft BASIC-in-ROM 

• 4K static RAM on board, 
expandable to 8K 

• Full 53-key keyboard, with upper 
and lower case. Plus user 
expandability. 

• Video interface and audio 
cassette interface. 

The Ohio Scientific Superboard II at 
$299 — in today's economy — has 
got to be the best buy by far. It will 
entertain you with spectacular 
graphics made possible by its ultra 
high resolution graphics and super 
fast BASIC. It will help you in school 
or industry, as an ultra powerful 
scientific calculator. Advanced 
scientific functions and a built-in 
"immediate" mode allow you to 
solve complex problems without 
programming. 

The Superboard II can be 
expanded economically, for business 
uses, or to remotely control your 
home appliances and security. Even 
communicate with other computers. 

Read what's been written 
about Superboard II: 

"We heartily recommend Super- 
board II for the beginner who wants 
to get into microcomputers with a 
minimum cost. A real computer 
with full expandability." 
— POPULAR ELECTRONICS, MARCH 1979 

"The Superboard II is an excellent 
choice for the personal computer 
enthusiast on a budget." 

-BYTE, MAY 1979 



Look at these easy hardware prices: 

610 Board For use with Superboard II and Challenger 1 P. 

BK static RAM. Expandable to 24K or 32K system total. 

Accepts up to two mini-floppy disk drives. Requires + 5V 

@4.5 amps. S 298 

Mini-Floppy Disk Drive Includes Ohio Scientific's PICO DOS 

software and connector cable. Compatible with 610 

expander board. Requires + 1 2V @1 .5 amps and + 5V @ 

0.7 amps. [Power supply S. cabinet not included.] 299 

630 Board Contact us for important details. 229 

AC-3P 12" combination black and white TV/video monitor. 159 

4KP 4K RAM chip set. 79 

P8-005 5V 4.5 amp power supply for Superboard II. 35 

P8-003 1 2V power supply for mini-floppies. 29 

CS-600 Metal case for Superboard II, 610 and 630 board 

and two power supplies. [While stock lasts.] 49 

CS-900B Metal case for single floppy disk drive and power 

supply. [While stock lasts.] 49 

AC-12P Wireless remote control system. Includes control 
console, two lamp modules and two appliance modules, for 
use with 630 board. 175 

AC-17P Home security system. Includes console, fire 

detector, window protection devices and door unit for use 

with 630 board. 249 

C1P Sams C1P Service manual 8 

C4P Sams C4P Service manual 16 

C3 Sams Challenger III manual 40 

Ohio Scientific and independent suppliers offer hundreds of programs for the 
Superboard II, in cassette and mini-floppy form. 



Freight Policies All orders of$100ormoreare 

shipped freight prepaid. Orders of less than SI 00 please add 
$4.00 to cover shipping costs. Ohio residents add 5.5% Sales Tax. 



ri Hours: Call Monday thru Friday. 
B;00 AM to 5:00 PM E.O.T. 
TOLL FREE: 1-800-331-5805 



Guaranteed Shipment 

Cleveland Consumer Computers S. Components 
guarantees shipment of computer systems 
within 48 hours upon receipt of your order. 
Our failure to ship within 48 hours 
entitles you to 835 of software, FREE. 



TO Order: Or to get our free catalog CALL 1-800-321-5805 TOLL FREE. Charge your 

order to your VISA or MASTER CHARGE account. Ohio residents call: [216] 464-8047. 
Or write, including your check or money order, to the address listed below. 



I 

I 
I 
I 
I 

I 
I 
I 

I 



CLEVELAND CONSUMER 
U| COMPUTERS & COMPONENTS 

| P.O. Box 46627 

i Cleveland, Ohio 44146 

■ BB1BB1BH ■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■■ BB1 ■"■■"■■"■ BB1 BB1 ■ 
flhrlan Cnnmi Cleveland consumer p.o. Box4eg27 

Wl UCI rill Ilia COMPUTERS B COMPONENTS Cleveland, Ohio 44146 

□ Superboard II $299. □ 630 Board $299. 

□ 610 Board $298. □ AC-3P 12" B/W Monitor $159. 

□ Mini-Floppy Disk Drive $299. □ C1 P Sams Manual $8. 
[Attach separate sheet for other items.] 

NAME 

ADDRESS: 

CITY: 

PHONE: 



. STATE: 



.ZIP: 



Payment by: VISA 

Credit Card Account #_ 
Expires 



MASTER CHARGE . 



MONEY ORDER 



Interbank #[Master Charge] 



TOTAL CHARGED OR ENCLOSED $_ 



. [Ohio Residents add 5.5% Sales Tax) 



Orders of less then $1 00. please add $4.00 to cover shipping costs. 

All orders shipped insured UPS unless otherwise requested. FOB Cleveland, Ohio. 



Circle 117 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



181 



FOR THE APPLE 




Please send: IJ Complete System S495.00 
□ User's Manual only S35.00 
D Detailed information 



Name _ 
Address _ 

City 

State 



Zip- 



applied analytics incorporated 
5406 Roblee Dr., Upper Marlboro. MO 20870 



Listing 1: An example assembly -language program designed to store a permanent 
vocabulary for voice synthesis in a read-only memory. The program generates a table 
of words which the user has entered and stores them sequentially in memory. It then 
produces a look-up table with entries that point to the corresponding word in the word- 
storage table. 



00004 
00005 
00006 

00008 

00010 1000 > 

00011 1000 00200820> 

00012 1004 0D201220> 

00013 1008 17201B20> 

00014 100C 20202420> 

00015 1010 29202E20> 

00016 1014 34203B2O 

00018 
00019 

00022 
00023 
00024 
00025 

00027 

00028 2000 

00028 2004 

00029 2008 

00029 200C 

00030 200B 

00030 2011 

00031 2012 

00031 2016 

00032 2017 

00033 201B 

00033 201F 

00034 2020 

00035 2024 

00035 2028 

00036 2029 

00036 202B 

00037 202E 

00037 2032 

00038 2034 

00038 2038 

00039 203B 

00041 
00042 
00043 
00045 

00047 0000 

00048 0039 

00049 003B 

00050 002A 

00051 0002 

00052 0004 

00053 0005 

00054 0033 

00055 0035 

00056 002F 

00057 0006 

00058 0009 

00059 0023 

00060 0028 

00061 OOOB 

00062 OOOC 

00063 OOOB 

00064 OOOE 

00065 OOOF 

00066 0010 

00067 0012 

00068 0013 

00069 0014 

00070 0015 

00071 0038 

00072 0016 

00073 0026 

00074 0019 

00075 001A 

00076 0030 
00077 



2000 5 

39350B30 

13333513 

0212002A 

OB 

0B0C0F15 

1A 

04092313 

OB 

06120526 

0C333506 

14 

0E281515 

13143B38 

10 

143B3526 

OD 

19281515 

1A2F 

1639350C 

192815 

00 



THIS DEMONSTRATES HOU AN ASSEMBLER 
CAN PACK A UORB TABLE ANB GENERATE 
THE APPROPRIATE UORB LOOK-UP TABLE 

THIS IS THE LOOK-UP TABLE 



ORG 1000H 


UORB 


ACCESS, BREAK 


UORB 


CLOSE. BISK 


UORD 


FREE. LEFT 


WORD 


NEU.STOP 


UORD 


TIME. USER 


UORB 


VALUE, XXX 



THIS TABLE UILL CONTINUE FOR AS MANY 
ENTRIES AS DESIRED OR MEMORY ALLOUS 

THIS IS THE UORD STORAGE TABLE, IT CAN BE 
PLACEB UHERE YOU DESIRE. UORDS APPEAR IN THE 
ABOVE ORDER INORDER TO USE THE START OP THE 
NEXT UORD AS THE STOP FLAG 01 THE CURRENT UORD 

ORG 2000H 
ACCESS BYTE AE1 , EH3. K.PAO .S . »EH1 ,EH3 . S ■ 

BREAK BYTE B . . R . , Al . A Y,K 

CLOSE BYTE K , L . ,01 , Ul , Z . 



DISK BYTE D, ,I1,I3,S,,K 



FREE BYTE F,R,,E1,Y 
LEFT BYTE L . , EH1 , EH3, F »T 



NEU BYTE N,IU,U1,U1 
STOP BYTE S,,T,AH1,UH3,P. 



TIME BYTE T , AH1 , EH3 , Y , M . 



USER BYTE Yl , IU.U1.U1 , Z . , ER 



VALUE BYTE V » AE1 ,EH3. L . , Yl . IU . Ul 



XXX 



BYTE 



NOTICE! THIS SCHEME DOESNT CARE HON MANY 
BYTES ARE ALLOCATED TO EACH UORD. THERE ARE 
MANY VARIATIONS ON THIS SCHEME. 
PARTIAL PHONEME EUUATES BELOU 



Al 

AE1 

AH1 

AY 

B. 

D. 

El 

EH1 

EH3 

ER 

F 

II 

13 

IU 

K 

L. 

M. 

N 

01 

P. 

R. 

S. 

T 

Ul 

UH3 

V 

Y 

Yl 

Z. 

PAO 




57 
59 
42 



EQU 
EQU 
EQU 
EQU 
EQU 2 
EQU 4 
EQU 5 
EQU 51 
EQU 53 
EQU 47 
EQU 6 
EQU 9 
EQU 35 
EQU 40 
EQU 11 
EQU 12 
EQU 13 
EQU 14 
EQU 
EQU 
EQU 18 
EQU 19 
EQU 
EQU 
EQU 
EQU 
EQU 38 
EQU 25 
EQU 26 
EQU 48 
END 



15 
16 



>0 
21 

56 
on 



182 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 




32K Board Pictured Above 



Why Not the Best? 

From The Dynamic RAM Company. 



2MHz 


4MHz 


16K— $249 


$259 


32K— $375 


$395 


48K— $500 


$530 


64K— $625 


$665 



We have now been shipping 
our 2MHz dynamic RAM boards 
for over two years. Hundreds of 
4MHz boards have been going 
out every month since early 
1979. Our reliability is proven in 
the thousands of systems which 
contain our board. Many quality- 
minded systems houses across 
the country and overseas are 
using our boards for their 
equipment. 

Our prices still beat all. 
Despite rising 16K memory chip 
prices (at least from reputable 
suppliers), Central Data continues 
to give you the best buy in 
memory today. Nobody offers a 
board with a capacity of 64K, 
assembled, tested, and guaranteed 
for a full year at the price we do. 

Circle 118 on inquiry card. 



Deselect around PROMs. Our 

boards have the important deselect 
feature which lets you overlap any 
fixed memory in your system with 
no interference. 

Our features make the board 
easily used and expanded. You 
address our boards on 1 6K 
boundaries with mini-jumps (small 
shorting plugs that slide over wire- 
wrap pins) near the top of the 
board for easy access. If you want 
to expand your board after you 
have purchased it, all that you 
need to do is add memory. We 
can supply you with expansion 
packages ($1 50-2MHz, 
$160-4MHz) which include eight 
RAMs that you can depend on as 
well as two mini-jumps for 
addressing. And of course, our 
board never generates wait states. 

Low power consumption keeps 
your computer running cool and 
reliable. The total power 
consumption of our 1 6K board is 
typically less than 4 watts ( + 8V @ 
300ma, + 1 6V @ 1 50ma and 



- 1 6V @ 20ma). Boards with 
additional memory typically 
increase power consumption only 
1 watt per 16K! 

Standard S-100 Interface. Our 
board is designed to interface with 
any standard S-100 CPU. All of 
the timing of the board is 
independent of the processor chip, 
and the board is set up for 
different processors by changing 
two plugs on the board. 

Call or write us today. That will 
guarantee a fast response with 
more information on the board. Or 
make an order — you'll probably 
have the board in two weeks! If 
you're interested, also ask for a 
catalog on our Z8000 16-bit 
processor board designed for the 
MULTIBUS. All of these products 
are available to your local dealer, 
also. 

Central Data Corporation, 713 
Edgebrook Drive, PO Box 2530, 
Station A, Champaign, IL 61820. 
(217) 359-8010 



Central Data 



BYTE February 1981 



183 



Your vehicle for com 

The Challenger 8P DF. 



The general purpose microcomputer 
was first introduced as a computer 
for hobbyists and experimenters. 
However, as the industry has grown, 
microcomputers have become 
specialized for personal use or for 
small business use. There is virtually 
no computer for the serious experi- 
menter with one important exception, 
the Ohio Scientific Challenger 8 P. 

The C8P is unique in that it incor- 
porates the features of state-of-the- 
art personal computers, with the 
memory and disk storage capacity 
of business computers, along with 
the "mainframe" bus architecture 
and open ended expansion capability 
of industrial control computers. 

Personal Computer 
Features 

The C8PDF's specs 
beat all personal 
computers hands 
down. It executes 
instructions two 
to three times 
faster, and 
displays more 
alphabetic 
characters 
on its screen 
than other 



models. It has upper and lower case 
and graphics in 16 colors. The C8P's 
standard I/O capabilities are far 
more extensive than any other com- 
puter, with joystick and keypad inter- 
faces, sound output, an 8-bit D/A 
converter, 16 parallel I/O lines, 
modem and printer interfaces, AC 
remote control and security monitor 
interfaces and a universal acces- 
sory port that accepts a prom blaster, 
12-bit analog I/O module, solderless 
prototyping board and more. 

Ohio Scientific offers a large library 
of personal applications programs, 
including exciting action games 
such as Invaders and Star Trek, 
sports simulations, games of logic 



and educational games, personal 
applications such as biorhythms, 
calorie counter, home programs 
such as checking and savings 
account balancers and a home 
budgeter just to name a few. A new 
Plot BASIC makes elaborate anima- 
tions easy, and music composition 
program allows you to play complex 
multi-part music through the com- 
puters DAC. 

At the systems level the machine 
comes standard with OS-65D, an ad- 
vanced disk operating system with 
Microsoft BASIC and an interactive 
Assembler Editor. Optional software 
includes UCSD PASCAL and 
FORTRAN and an Information 
Management System (OS-MDMS). 
Dozens of independent software 
suppliers now also offer personal 
programs for the C8P. 




I 





puter explorations. 



Business Computer Features 

The C8P DF utilizes dual 8" floppy 
disk drives which store up to eight 
times as much information as per- 
sonal computer mini-floppies, and 
an available double-sided option 
expands capacity to 1.2 megabytes 
of on-line storage. The C8P DF is 
compatible with Ohio Scientif ic's 
business computer software, in- 
cluding OS-65U an advanced oper- 
ating system, and an Information 
Management System (OS-DMS) with 
supplementary inventory, account- 
ing, A/R-A/P, payroll, purchasing, 
estimation, educational grading and 
financial modeling packages. The 
system also supports word process- 
ing (WP-3) and a fully integrated 
small business accounting system 
(OS-AMCAP V1.6). The C8P DF's 
standard modem and printer ports 
accept high-speed matrix printers 
and word-processing printers directly. 

Home Control and 
Industrial Control 

The C8P DF has the most advanced 
home monitoring and control capa- 
bilities ever offered in a computer 
system. It incorporates a real time 
clock and a unique FOREGROUND/ 
BACKGROUND operating system 
which allows the computer to 
function with normal BASIC pro- 
grams, at the same time it is 
monitoring external devices. 
The C8P DF comes standard 
with an AC remote control 

interface, which 



allows it to control a wide range of 
AC appliances and lights remotely, 
without wiring, and an interface for 
home security systems which moni- 
tors fire, intrusion, car theft, water 
levels and freezer temperature, all 
without messy wiring. In addition, 
the C8P DF can accept Ohio Scien- 
tific's Votrax voice I/O board and/or 
Ohio Scientific's new universal 
telephone interface (UTI). The tele- 
phone interface connects the com- 
puter to any telephone line. The 
computer system is able to answer 
calls, initiate calls and communicate 
via touch-tone signals, voice outpu t 
or 300 baud modem signals. It can 
accept and decode touch-tone 
signals, 300 baud modem signals 
and record incoming voice 
messages. These features collec- 
tively give the C8P DF capabilities to 
monitor and control home functions 
with almost human-like capabilities. 

For process control applications, a 
battery back up calendar clock with 
automatic computer restart capabili- 
ties is available. Ohio Scientific's 
unique accessory ports allow the 
connection of a nearly unlimited 
number of 48 line parallel I/O cards 
and 12-bit high speed instrumenta- 
tion quality analog I/O modules to 
the computer by inexpensive 16-pin 
ribbon cables. 

Exploring New Frontiers 

Ohio Scientific's vocalizer software 
processes normal BASIC print state- 
ments with conventional spellings 
and speaks them clearly in real-time 




on computers equipped with the UTI 
(CA-15B or CA-14A). This voice out- 
put capability, combined with the 
C8P's remote control, remote sens- 
ing, telephone interface capabilities 
and reasonable cost open up new 
frontiers for computer applications. 

Documentation 

The C8P DF is not a beginner's com- 
puter and doesn't come with begin- 
ner's documentation. However, Ohio 
Scientific does offer detailed 
documentation on the computer 
which is meaningful for experts, 
including a Howard Sams produced 
hardware service manual that in- 
cludes detailed block diagrams, 
schematics, parts placement dia- 
grams and parts lists. Ohio Scientific 
is now also offering fully 
documented Source Code in 
machine readable form for OS-65D, 
the Challenger 8P's operating 
system allowing experimenters and 
industrial users to customize the 
system to their specific applications. 

What's Next? 

Ohio Scientific is working on a 
speech recognizer to complement 
the UTI system, with a several hun- 
dred word vocabulary. The company 
is also developing an 8 megabyte 
low-cost, add-on hard disk for use in 
conjunction with natural language 
parsing to further advance the state- 
of-the-art in small computers. The 
modular bus architecture of the C8P 
assures system owners of being 
able to make use of these new 
developments as they become 
available just as the owner of a 1976 
vintage Challenger can directly plug 
in voice output, the UTI and other 
current state-of-the-art OSI 
products. 

The C8P DF with dual 8" floppies, 
BASIC and two operating systems 
costs about $3000, only slightly 
more than you would pay for a dual 
mini-floppy equipped personal com- 
puter with only a fraction of the 
capabilities of the C8R 

For more information and the 
name of the dealer nearest you, 
call 1-800-321-6850 toll free. 



1333 SOUTH CHILLICOTHE ROAD 
AURORA, OH 44202 • [21 6] 831 -5600 



Circle 155 on inquiry card. 




Listing 2: A driver program in BASIC which accesses the vo- 
cabulary as stored by the program shown in listing 1. The end of 
a word is detected by the starting address of the adjacent word 
in the table. 



Photo 5: A communicator for the verbally impaired. The 
Phonic Mirror HandiVoice HC-110 is a battery-operated speech 
synthesizer controlled by a microprocessor. The user can select 
from its 500 word/phrase vocabulary by touching the keypad. 




Photo 6: The Phonic Mirror HandiVoice HC-120 is an ad- 
vanced version of the voice synthesizer shown in photo 5. It has 
a 1000 word/phrase vocabulary selected by entering a 3-digit 
numeric code. Paralyzed users can operate the unit through the 
use of a paddle switch and a scroll mode. 




100 


' 


SF'EECH OUTPUT SUE:ROUTINE 


IN 


BASIC 


110 




PHONEMES ARE SELECTED FROM 


THE WORD 


120 




POINTED TO BY WNZ 






130 










140 


X - 


1000H + 2 » HN7. 


: 


' CALCULATE LOOK-UP ADDRESS 


lr-io 


V = 


F'EEK(X) + 256 * FEEKIX+1) 


; 


' LOOK-UP WORD START 


160 


z - 


PEEK<X+2> + 256 » PEEKCX+3) 


: 


1 LOOK-UP NEXT WORD START 


17 


F R 


X = Y TO Z-l 


: 


' SET UP LOOP ITERATIONS 


mo 


OUT 


SPEECH, PEEK(X) ! NEXTX 


j 


' OUTPUT A PHONEME 


190 


RETURN 


: 


' EXIT 



Photo 7: Talking typewriters for use by the verbally impaired. 
The units, which use phonemes, have a virtually unlimited 
vocabulary. 



number of words in the vocabulary and the number of 
bits in a phoneme-command word. For example, a vo- 
cabulary of 100 words using a 6- to 8-bit command word 
to represent each phoneme will require 600 bytes of stor- 
age. A 1000-word vocabulary will require 6000 bytes of 
storage. A 12-bit command word will require 900 to 1200 
bytes for a 100-word vocabulary and 9000 to 12,000 
bytes for a 1000-word vocabulary (depending on the 
packing techniques). 

When using a phoneme synthesizer with a 6-bit com- 
mand word and a high-level computer language that 
allows literal strings to be assigned to a variable, vocabu- 
lary storage can be embedded within the program state- 
ments by using ASCII strings. This is because a 6-bit 
command word has only sixty-four possible commands, 
where there are at least 64 printable ASCII characters. A 
word or phrase is assigned to a string variable immediate- 
ly before being sent to a speech-output routine. This 
routine pulls characters out of the string variable one at a 
time and sends them to the synthesizer. This technique is 
suitable for small vocabulary requirements. With large 
vocabularies, there tends to be word duplication because 
the storage unit is a sentence or phrase. 

A technique better suited for handling large word bases 
is the assignment of the phoneme string for a single word 
to a subscripted string variable. This avoids the word 
duplication experienced by the previous technique and 
saves memory (provided that the language stores char- 
acter strings with no wasted space). To generate a sen- 
tence using this technique, a sequence of variable sub- 
script numbers is passed to a routine which calls up the 
indicated variables. Phoneme strings are then removed 
from the variable and sent to the synthesizer. 

For permanent vocabularies stored in ROM (read-only 
memory) or loaded into programmable memory from a 
disk file, a word-address look-up scheme works well. 
This is done by generating a table of words stored se- 
quentially in a portion of the memory. You then produce 
a look-up table whose entries point to a word in the 
word-storage table. The number of the look-up-table en- 
try corresponds to the number assigned to the word (eg: 
the fifth entry in the look-up table will point to the fifth 
word in the word table). These tables can be generated 
easily (see listing 1). Sentences are called out in the same 
fashion as the previous scheme. 

The assembler scheme works well with any size pho- 
neme-command word, since it does not care how many 
bits are used to represent a phoneme. However, the 
driver program must know whether to pull 1, 1 Vz, or 2 
bytes per phoneme. Listing 2 shows a driver program in 
BASIC to access the vocabulary in listing 1. Note that the 



186 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



end of a word is detected by the starting address of the 
adjacent word in the table. 

Applications 

In the field of computer technology alone, there is 
tremendous potential for the use of speech output. 
Through voice synthesis, applications can expand into 
areas formerly closed. These are areas where a person 
must interact with a computer, but where visual output is 
inappropriate, unavailable, or ineffective. 

Currently, a blind person who wishes to use a com- 
puter must rely on a sighted person to relay information 
from a video display or printer. To eliminate this depen- 
dency, a terminal for the blind can be built to incorporate 
voice synthesis. Several such terminals are beginning to 
appear on the market. 

Another situation where speech output is desirable is a 
warehousing/dispatching system. It is not often cost- 
effective to place terminals around a large warehouse to 
list pending tasks. A better method is speech output from 
a computer connected to a radio link, which dispatches a 
worker carrying a pocket receiver /transmitter. Similar 
systems are in use or being developed today. 

Another area where computers are presently ineffec- 
tive is in interfacing with the nonreading population. 
Such is the case when the users are preschool children or 
nonreading adults. They are the prime candidates for us- 
ing CAI (computer-aided instruction) as a supplement to 
their education. Applications such as computerized test- 
ing and evaluation of children would invite advance- 
ments in the educational field if a speech-output channel 
was used. 

Synthetic speech applications are not limited to merely 
the computer peripherals mentioned. When used with a 
small, dedicated microcomputer or digital controller, a 
stand-alone device can be produced. Such is the case with 
a reading machine for the blind. 

A second type of stand-alone speech system is a com- 
municator for the verbally impaired. A battery-operated 
microcomputer system and a speech synthesizer can pro- 
vide a voice for individuals stricken with neurological or 
physical disorders which impair the human speech me- 
chanism (see photos 5 and 6). 

Other applications for voice synthesis are in the area of 
entertainment electronics. Talking card games, chess 
games, and video games are beginning to use voice syn- 
thesis. Many of these applications are made possible by 
LSI (large-scale integration) circuits such as the Votrax 
SC01 single-chip voice synthesizer. 

The interface of man-to-machine will provide a chal- 
lenge for the 1980s. Speech synthesis will play an impor- 
tant role in the future of computer technology. ■ 



Editor's Note: One of the first voice-synthesis products for 
consumers was Texas Instruments Speak & Spell, which uses 
a ten-stage lattice filter to simulate the human vocal tract. In 
the fall of 1980, as part of the continuing trend toward in- 
tegrating voice synthesis into everyday products, MB Elec- 
tronics (a subsidiary of Milton-Bradley) introduced an elec- 
tronic game called "Milton." The game is controlled by a 
Texas Instruments TMS-1000-series 4-bit microprocessor and 
utilizes a custom voice-synthesis integrated cii --•<( designed 
by MB engineers.... SM 



The time has come for computers 
to talk and listen 




Introducing COGNIVOX series VIO, 
the affordable voice I/O peripherals 



If you have a 

PET - TRS-80 - APPLE II 
AIM 65 - SORCERER 

or any Z-80 CPU based system with at least 16K of RAM, COGNIVOXwill 
add a whole new dimension to your computer. 

Imagine being able to use your voice for entry of commands and data 
and then listen to the computer talk back to you 1 This exciting possibility 
has now become a reality at a very affordable price. 

COGNIVOX, series VIO, is a family of voice input and output peripherals 
especially designed for personal computers that are easy to use and have 
excellent software support. You need only plug in COGNIVOX, load one of 
the programs provided and you will be able to have a voiceencounterwith 
your computer! 

COGNIVOX can be trained to recognize words or short phrases from a 
vocabulary of up to 32 entries of your choice, with an accuracy of up to 
98%. The voice response vocabulary can also have up to 32 entries 
chosen by the user. COGNIVOX requires that your computer has at least 
16K of RAM. If it has less memory or if you are only interested in 
recognition, ask us about our SR-100 series of voice input peripherals. 

COGNIVOX comes complete with microphone, power supply, (as 
required), built-in amplifier/speaker and extensive user manual. What 
makes COGNIVOX truly unique, though, is the soltware that comes with it 
on cassette. Some of the programs included are: DIALOG, a programthat 
lets you conduct a dialog with your computer (or translate from one 
language to the other); VDUMP, a vocal memory dump that reads the 
memory contents out loud; VOTH, a voice operated talking board game 
and VOICETRAP, a voice operated video game. 

Adding voice I/O to your own programs can be done very easily too. All 
that is needed to have your computer recognize a word or say a word is a 
single USR statement in BASIC. No machine language programming is 
necessary. 

With all these features, you'd expect COGNIVOX to cost a small fortune 
(after all, even talking chess games sell for over S300), yet it only costs 
$149 (add S4.50 for shipping in the U.S.. 10% of order overseas. CA res, 
add 6% tax) This low price has been made possible by innovative 
hardware and a technological breakthrough in recognition algorithm 
design that uses powerful non-linear pattern matching techniques and 
adaptive learning. 

COGNIVOX is simply the most fun, most exotic peripheral you can buy 
for your computer. Write or call (805) 685-1854 for more it, motion, 
giving us the make and model of your computer. Or better yet, order a 
COGNIVOX today and bring your computer to life. 



VOICETEK 



Dept B, P.O. Box 388 
Goleta, CA 93116 



Circle 119 on inquiry card. 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 187 



Circle 121 on inquiry card. 



REMOTE I/O 



■* ~* l *'WWP B 'MBMi 




Control AND monitor remote devices 
Real time clock/calendar included 

• An AC carrier communications I/O interface for the APPLE II* 
computer. Output communications operate up to 256 BSR System 
X-10* control modules. Input communications come from the X-10 
command console, and temperature and security input modules, 
soon to be available from Intelligent Control Systems, Inc. 

• Software routines are provided to handle the AC I/O, to set, 
read , and display the real time clock , and a background schedule 
control program. 4 selectable interrupt rates allow machine 
language programs to run simultaneously with other programs. 

• Real time clock provides sec, min, hour, date, day of week, mo, 
and year. Rechargable battery runs clock when APPLE is off. 

• Trademarks-APPLE II: Apple Computer Inc . , System X-10 :BSR Ltd . 
SEE YOUR APPLE DEALER FOR A DEMONSTRATION ... $185 Sugg . retail 

Intelligent Control Systems, Inc. 

POBOX 14571«MPLS,MN 5541 4« (612) 699-4342 



MICROSTAT 
NOW AVAILABLE FOR CP/M* 

MICROSTAT, the most powerful statistics package available 
for microcomputers, is completely file-oriented with a power- 
ful Data Management Subsystem (OMS) that allows you to 
edit, delete, augment, sort, rank-order, lag and transform (11 
transformations, including linear, exponential and log) existing 
data into new data. After a file is created with OMS, Microstat 
provides statistical analysis in the following general areas: 
Descriptive Statistics (mean, sample, and population S.D., 
variance, etc.). Frequency Distributions (grouped or individ- 
ual). Hypothesis Testing (mean or proportion). Correlation and 
Regression Analysis (with support statistics). Non-parametric 
Tests (Kolmogorov-Smirnov, Wilcoxon, etc.). Probability Dis- 
tributions (8 of them), Crosstabs and Chi-square, ANOVA (one 
and two way). Factorials, Combinations and Permutations, plus 
other unique and useful features, 

MICROSTAT requires 48K, Microsoft Basic-80 with CPIM 
and is sent on a single-density 8" Disk. It is also available on 
5" diskettes for North Star DOS and Basic (32K and two 
drives recommended), specify which when ordering. The 
price for Microstat is $250.00. The user's manual is $15.00 
and includes sample data and printouts. We have other 
business and educational software, call or write: 



ECOSOFT 



[master charge] 



P.O. Box 68602 
Indianapolis, IN 46268 
V (317)283-8883 

CP/M is a registered trade mark of Digital Research. 



Technical Forum 



Nonlinearities in 
Illumination 

Christopher Terry, 324 E 35th St, New York NY 10016 

I certainly do not wish to be hastily critical of an 
excellently documented and very interesting project. 
However, my points may help constructors to carry their 
experiments with computer-controlled light dimmers a 
bit further and to avoid disappointment with the results. 

The dimmer, as described in John Gibson's "A Com- 
puter-Controlled Light Dimmer" (January 1980 BYTE, 
page 56), will certainly fade a lamp from blackout to full 
brightness or vice versa. However, it is important to 
realize that a smooth, steady fade cannot be obtained by 
incrementing the delay count in equal steps throughout 
the fade time. Linear change of this kind is an analog of 
the steady motion of a dimmer slide, whose scale is nor- 
mally calibrated from to 10 in equal divisions. On the 
other hand, the response characteristics of the digital 
dimmer, of incandescent lamps, and of the eye itself, are 
all highly nonlinear. 

Figure 1 shows the curve of light output (expressed as a 
percentage of maximum light output in lumens) versus 
voltage applied to a lamp (expressed as a percentage of 
the rated, normal operating voltage). Data for this curve 
was taken from the Sylvania GTE Lighting Handbook 



180 


- 




1- 160 












a. 






t- 






o 14 ° 


- 




H 






I 






IS 120 


- 




_l 






D 






£ 100 










< 






a. 






u- 80 


- / 




O 






1- 






z 60 


/ 










u 






rr 






w 40 


r- ^r 










20 


1 I- 1 1 





20 40 60 80 

PERCENT OF RATED LAMP VOLTAGE 



100 



120 



Figure 1: The nonlinear response of light output versus the 
voltage applied to an incandescent lamp. Although the curve is 
almost linear above the 60% illumination point, an incandes- 
cent bulb can require as much as 40% of rated voltage to il- 
luminate at all. Note that driving lamps with higher-than-rated 
voltage will reduce life drastically. 



188 February 19B1 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 1 22 on inquiry card. 



One Stop 
Shopping. 




New CPU Card 
Completes the 
Package. 

Now Tarbell offers a Z-80 S-100 CPU/IO board that 
rounds out its product line. Along with the single or 
double density floppy interface, the 32K memory card 
and the S-100 bus in the cabinet, this new CPU board 
means that Tarbell now offers everything needed to 
build a system. Just add a CRT and printer, and you're 
in business. Tarbell is now your one-stop shopping 
source. 

One of the outstanding features of this new CPU board 
is memory-management hardware that allows dynamic 
mapping of logical to 1 Megabyte of physical memory in 
4K blocks. Moreover, the CPU board is especially 



Service 



designed to make it easier to implement multiuser 
operating systems, such as MP/M™ from Digital 
Research. It can run at 2 or 4Mhz, jumper selectable. It 
has two RS-232 Serial Ports (one for printer and one for 
CRT), with full handshaking capability. 

One of its additional important features is a crystal- 
controlled programmable timer, which can be used for 
time-of-day clock and multi-tasking operations. 
Programmable priority masked vectored interrupt 
hardware is another useful feature. 

In addition to all the features of the new CPU card, the 
double density floppy interface has DMA which makes 
the multi-tasking operation quite efficient. Also, the 32K 
memory board is static, resulting in a reliable memory. 
The Tarbell System with all three cards can be 
expanded for more memory and thus provides the 
ultimate in flexiblity. 

Now Tarbell has it all. 




rSl&mf The ° neStop Sboppinq 



950 Dovlen Place, Suite B 
Carson, CA 90746 
(213) 538-4251 

MP/M is a trademark of Digital Research. 



Circle 123 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 189 



Technical Forum — ^— ^— ^_^^_ 

and is valid for most incandescent lamps. The most linear 
part of the curve is above the 60% illumination point. 
The nonlinearity is even more apparent in figure 2, which 
shows a standard calibration curve for theatrical SCR 
(silicon-controlled rectifier) dimmers controlling 120 V 
lamps from a 120 V RMS (root mean square) supply. The 
percentage of light output is also shown on the voltage 
axis. Note that 70 V RMS must be applied before the 
brightness reaches 10 % , and that raising the voltage from 
80 V to 109 V increases the brightness from 25 % to 75 % . 
Figure 3 shows the predicted RMS voltage applied to 
the load for trigger-delay angles from 0° to 179°, and also 
the percentage of light output corresponding to the ap- 
plied voltage. The angle versus volts curve was derived 
from the formula given in the SCR Handbook for triacs 
and back-to-back SCRs. The formula is: 



V 



LOAD(RMS) 



/27T 



(V-fl + 0.5(sin 2a)) 05 



constant illumination at 20% of the maximum brightness 
of the controlled lamp, the apparent brightness of the 
controlled lamp follows a Munsell curve somewhat 
similar to the Munsell curve relating the apparent 
loudness of a sound to its frequency and power. 

Because of these effects, theatrical dimmers, which 
receive a linear control voltage from the slide poten- 
tiometer, contain internal curve-generating circuits that 
cause the dimmer output to follow either the linear light 
curve of figure 2, or more usually the square law curve. 
The manner in which these curves relate linear dimmer 
motion to apparent light output is shown in figure 4 — it is 
evident that the square law curve provides the most 
linear relationship, at least for the theatrical stage. 

The eye is most sensitive in the region from 25% to 
85% of maximum light output. In this range, a sudden 
jump of 1 V produced by a delay count change is percep- 
tible, and jumps of 1.5 V to 2 V are quite obnoxious dur- 



where a (the firing angle) is in radians (not degrees), and 
E p is the peak value of the supply. 

Evaluating this equation with a BASIC program gave 
excellent experimental results. Using a 46 /is clock to 
drive the counter, computed values agree quite closely 
with this curve. (The true time for 1° per pulse is 
8333/180 = 46.294 /is, but the 46 /is clock is easily derived 
from a 1 MHz system clock and is only 1° off at 160° .) 

The human eye's response, too, is very nonlinear. 
When the area lit by a controlled lamp is surrounded by 




Marway has the AC Power ' 
Controller For Your System. 

You'll find the ideal solution to AC power distribution needs in Marway's proven 
family of power controllers, From home audio visual centers to a time shared 
maxicomputer system. Marway products will stop "glitches", surges and 
unwanted line noises. 



MPD 110 Series of 
3W rack mount 
AC power controllers 



• 10 outlets— 8 switched 
Option). 2 unswitched id 

• n5 VAC and 230 VAC 

• 15 amp capactly 

• High performance EMI li 

• Opuonal remole control 




MPD115 Series of DEC 

Compatible Controllers 

• interchangeable win DEC model 
861 and priced 40% less 

• 12 oullets — 8 switched 4 un- 
swiiched Idireci) 

■ 115 VAC and 230 VAC models 

• Up lo 30 amp capacity 

• High pertormance EMI litter 

• Optional delayed output and 



MPD 117 low-cost AC power distribution 

• Minimum cosl • 10 amp capacity 

• 8 outlets — 6 switched 2un- -High energy EMI tiller 

All Marway Power Controllers provide organized, noise-free power distribution 
of standard AC current to eliminate frequently experienced line transients 
and associated problems. They turn a single wall outlet into a controlled 
power source. Contact Marway today, 

Marwiy can solva your power distribution problems and save you money 

, mflRWHY PPODLCT5 INC * 



2421 South Birch Street, Santa Ana, CA 92707 [71 4) 549-0623 
190 February 3983 © BYTE Publications Inc Circle 124 Ofl inquiry Card. 



i 

120 



-V RMS APPLIED TO LAMP 
I PERCENT LIGHT OUTPUT 



90 



60- 



50 



30- 




BLACKOUT 



2 3 4 5 6 7 8 

CONTROL VOLTS (E:) OR DIMMER SETTING 



10 
MAX 



Figure 2: Calibration curve for theatrical lamp dimmers. The 
control voltage is interpreted by the dimmer to produce a linear- 
seeming response. Note that the voltage actually applied to the 
lamp is not linear, but is related to the response of the lamp to 
voltage and the response of the human eye to light. 



,0. ft 



Cj 







,«..■■ k*k 



%%% ANSI 'ee STANDARD 

IDCTRAN IV 

WITH 

CATfCC 



DCD CD/M 



TOGETHER AT LAST 



SSS FORTRAN & RATFOR are the critic's choice! 

The SSS FORTRAN compiler is fast, efficient, and complete (full 1966 ANSI 
standard with extensions). The RATFOR compiler compiles into FORTRAN allowing 
the user to write structured code while retaining the benefits of FORTRAN. 
Together they form an incredible team! 

SSS FORTRAN Specifics 

SSS FORTRAN makes full FORTRAN IV available to microcomputers. SSS 
FORTRAN meets and exceeds the ANSI 1966 FORTRAN standard. The compiler 
supports many advanced features not found in less complete implementations, 
including: complex arithmetic, character variables, and functions. SSS FORTRAN 
will compile up to 600 lines per minute! Recursive subroutines with static 
variables are supported. ROMable ".COM" files may be generated. 



FEATURES 

Code generation: ROMable ".COM" files or intermediate code files (saves disk 
space). External routines may be called. 

Data types: Byte, integer, real, double precision, complex, logical, charac- 

ter and varying length strings. 

Operations: All standard operations plus string comparisons, assignments, 

and XOR. 

Constants: Hexadecimal, decimal, and character literals with features to 

imbed control characters. 

Statements: ANSI 1 966 standard with multiple statement lines, state- 

ments may end with a ' ;'. 

Controls: Map, List, and Symbol table output options. 

I/O: Read, Write, Append, Rewind, Close, Delete, Rename, Search, 

sequencial and Random I/O on disk files. Supports all CP/M 
devices. The User can add device handlers to use custom I/O 
devices. 

Errors: Over 200 distinct compiler error messages, precision and 

illegal instruction warnings during execution. 

Interrupts: FORTRAN programs may be interrupted at any time: the stack 

pointer is always preserved. 



• • DC ATLEING • • 



SSS RATFOR 

RATFOR is a preprocessor that compiles to SSS FORTRAN. SSS 
RATFOR allows the use of contemporary loop control and struc- 
tured programing techinques. SSS RATFOR is similar to FORTRAN 
77 in that it supports such things as: 
REPEAT... UNTIL WHILE IF ... THEN ... ELSE 

Begin End Brackets Macro Defines 

SSS RATFOR is supplied with source code. The source code 
is distributed in both RATFOR and SSS FORTRAN. Not only does 
this prevent obsolescence, but allows the user to add enhance- 
ments as desired. 



iTTTTTTTTTTl 

System Requirements & Prices 

SSS FORTRAN requires a 32k CP/M system. Z80 only. 
SSS FORTRAN with RATFOR: $325.00 
SSS FORTRAN alone: $250.00 

RATFOR alone: $100.00 

(Sold only with valid SSS FORTRAN license) 

CP/M Formats: 8" soft sectored. 5" Northstar. 5" Micropolis Mod II. 
Vector MZ, Superbrain DD/QD 

All Orders and General Information: 

SUPERSOFT ASSOCIATES 

P.O. BOX 1628 

CHAMPAIGN, IL 61820 

(217)359-2112 

Technical Hot Line: (217) 359-2691 

(answered only when technician is available) 

•CP/M REGISTERED TRADEMARK DIGITAL RESEARCH 

SSS FORTRAN is the copyright of 
Small Systems Services. Urbana Illinois 



SuperScft 

First in Software Technology 



BYTE February 1981 



191 



Technical Forum 



' RMS 



(LOAD) i % LIGHT 



120 




40 60 80 100 120 140 

TRIGGER DELAY ANGLE (DEGREES) 



Figure 3: Effect of trigger-delay angle on the RMS voltage ap- 
plied to the load of a thyristor-type dimmer. Plotted along with 
the percent of light output expected from an incandescent lamp, 
this curve is valuable for computer-controlled dimmer applica- 
tions. This curve is based on calculations made with a 46 us 
clock, which may be developed from a 1 MHz system clock. 



ing a long fade (eg: 20 seconds or more). To obtain a 
smooth fade, it is necessary that the linear timing pulses 
are translated to delay counts that will generate the 
square law curve. Also, since sudden changes are in- 
evitable with a digital dimmer, it is desirable that the 
magnitude of each incremental change is small, especially 
during a long fade. This implies increasing the number of 
steps so that smaller, more frequent voltage jumps wi)\ 
better approach the continuous change of an analog dim- 
mer. So far, I have obtained the best results by using an 
8-bit delay counter, which is not started until after a 
delay of 20° (920 fis); the range from 20° to 160° is then 
divided into 256 steps. The actual value loaded into the 
counter is obtained from a software table that converts 
linear increments to values that follow the square law. 

I have some cautionary notes to add, based on my own 
experiments. Triacs are much more persnickety and dif- 
ficult to control than a pair of back-to-back SCRs with a 
bridge to steer the trigger pulse. Unless great care is taken 
in the design of the dv/dt and di/dt damping networks, 
triacs generate a much larger amount of RFI (radio fre- 
quency interference), are more subject to "pulling," are li- 
able to be unpredictable and have infuriating interaction 
between channels on the same AC power phase. I have 
some doubt as to whether the simple RC (resistor/capaci- 
tor) damping networks shown by John Gibson in his fig- 
ure 9 will support multiple channels, all changing at dif- 
ferent rates in different directions, without interaction. A 
damped inductive filter is recommended by General Elec- 



Combine accurate flight characteristics with the best in animation graphics 
and you'll have SubLOGIC's 

T80-FS1 Flight Simulator 

fortheTRS-80 



SubLOGIC's T80-FS1 is the smooth, realistic 
simulator that gives you a real-time, 3-D, 
out-ot-the-cockpit view of flight. 

Thanks to last animation and accurate repre- 
sentation of flight, the non-pilot can now learn 
basic flight control, including take-offs and 
landings! And experienced pilots will recog- 
nize how thoroughly they can explore the 
aircraft's characteristics. 

Once you've acquired flight proficiency, 
you can engage in the exciting British Ace 
3-D Aerial Battle Game included in the 
package. Destroy the enemy's fuel depot 
while evading enemy fighters. 

Computer and aviation experts call the 
T80-FS1 a marvel of modern technology. 
You'll simply call it fantastic! 



Special Features: 

• 3 frame-per-second flicker free 
animation 

• Maximum transfer keyboard input 

• Constant feedback cassette loader 

Hardware Requirements: 

• Radio Shack TRS-80, Level 1 or 2 

• 16K memory 

• Nothing else! 



$ 

Only 



25 




See your dealer or order direct. For 
direct order, include $1.25 and specify 
UPS or first class mail. Illinois residents 
add 5% sales tax. Visa and Mastercard 
accepted. 



iOO^LOGIC 

Distribution Corp. 
BoxV, Savoy, IL 61874 
(217)359-8482 



192 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 126 on inquiry card. 



How to develop 
a silver tongue, a golden touch 
and a mind like a steel trap. 



Il you want to lead others, it's essen- 
tial to see things they miss . . .to know 
how to communicate your broader 
vision . . . and to tell your insights with 
a conviction that's inspiring. 

Business Week helps give you that 
silver-tongued readiness of expression 
that's so critical in leading other peo- 
ple. Simply by making you remarkably 
well informed about business. 

Gain years of business wisdom 
with just an hour or two of reading 
each week! 

Every issue of Business Week con- 
tains dozens of articles - most quite 
short- that analyze every happening 
of note in the business community. 



What you've been missing... 

Here are some typical articles 
from recent issues: 
The new Arab weapon Their 
growing banking system could soon 
give the Arabs control over the 
economies and politics of the West. 
Juries out? Critics claim some 
business suits are too complex for 
civil juries. A new ruling agrees. 
Computer bottleneck With 
software development lagging, the 
computer industry could lose much 
of its momentum. A lack of pro- 
grammers doesn't help. 
Cleaning up the image Even 
when liability is not an issue, some 
companies are clearing waste sites 
just to avoid bad press. 
Exotic tax shelters From wind 
turbines to wood chips, new energy 
projects are enticing investors. 



tive managers who saw their profits 

dwindle to nothing. 
(Good lessons in how not to succeed.) 
You'll also read about executives 

who turned their companies around - 

through innovation . . . diversification . . . 

centralization ... or other careful 

strategies. 
Their talent for success will inspire 

you to perfect your own golden touch . . . 

Take the measure of the current 
business climate (and see what's in 
it for you). 

Business Week analyzes all the 
quirks of the current economy. . . re- 
veals the health secrets of corporate 
"cash cows" . . . points out new markets 
that are mushrooming all over the 
world... 

With input like this fed you 
every week, don't 



be surprised if your mind grows 
so sharp and quick that it closes 
like a steel trap around every new 
business opportunity! 

Enroll as a subscriber now 

Just fill out and return the coupon 
below or the card opposite. We'll start 
Business Week coming your way at 
the basic subscription rate of only 69(£ 
per copy instead of the $1.75 cover 
price. 

If you're at all disappointed, you may 
write "cancel" on our bill and return it 
to us with no further obligation. 

So act now. 




:" 7ES, start my subscription 
coming! 



Each week you'll discover who's 
merging with whom. What's selling 
where. Why prices are soaring or 
plunging in all sorts of places. . . 

Who's delighting stockholders. 
Who's infuriating employees. 
Who are leaping to power (or 
losing their jobs) in companies, 
unions and governments all 
over the world. 

Watch the dramas and 
traumas behind the profit 
and loss statements. 

Each week you'll read about bright 
ideas that bombed - and unimagina- 




Send 29 issues of Business Week at 
the basic subscription rate of $19.95. 
This saves me $30.80 off the $1.75 
cover price. 

If I'm at all disappointed, I'll write 
"cancel" on your bill and return it to 
you with no further obligation. 

□ Payment enclosed □ Bill me 

Guarantee: If Business Week everfails 10 meet 
your needs, you may cancel at any time and 
receive a relund for any issues not yet mailed. 



Company 



Address to mail. 

(this is my D home □ business address) 



State/Zip 

For faster service, call Toll-Free (800) 523-7601 
In Pennsylvania call (800) 662-5180 



BusinessWeek 

Circulation Department 

1221 Ave. of the Americas. 40th Floor 
New York, N.Y. 10020 



0-N703-0 Byte 



Circle 127 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 193 



Technical Forum, 



100 




LINEAR 
VOLTAGE 



4 5 6 

DIMMER SETTING 



Figure 4: Theatrical dimmer setting versus apparent light out- 
put. Internal curve-generating circuitry of most theatrical dim- 
mers follows either the linear light curve or the square law 
curve, as shown. 



trie, and I have found this type more effective in reducing 
RFI and interaction between channels. (See figure 5.) 

Also, triacs seem to be more vulnerable to spike 
overloads than SCRs. This becomes important when you 
realize that applying full voltage to a cold lamp filament, 
which has a very low resistance, causes an inrush current 



THE PROBLEM-SOLVER. 
HP-85 . . . PLUS HP SOFTWARE. 




HP-85 Appl""* 5 "" Pa* - * 


•BASIC Training Pac 


•Basic Statistics and 


•General Statistics Pac 


Data Manipulation Pac 


•Financial Decisions Pac 


•Math Pac 


•Linear Programming Pac 


•Circuit Analysis Pac 


•Regression Analysys Pac 


•Games Pac 


•Text Editing Pac 


•Waveform Analysis Pac 


•Visicalc Plus 




HP Flexible Disc Drives 
• HP82900 Series 
HP9895A wr 



DATA BASE MANAGER 



HEWLETT 
PACKARD 



FARNSWORTH 
COMPUTER CENTER 

1891 N. FARNSWORTH AVE. 
(At the East-West Tollway) 
AURORA, IL. (312) 851-3888 
Weekdays 10-8; Sat. 10-5 



120 VAC 




MT2 



MT1 



NEUTRAL Q> 



Figure 5: A damped inductive filter for triac dimmers. By 
removing RFI with an effective filter arrangement, interaction 
between dimmers can be reduced. This is especially important 
when multiple channels are used to control lamps at differing 
rates and in different directions. 

spike that may peak at three to six times the normal full- 
brightness operating current of the lamp. While low- 
wattage lamps warm quickly, the thermal inertia of 
lamps rated at 200 W or more may allow the spike to be 
several milliseconds in duration and cause damage to the 
triac. Triacs are particularly vulnerable to such spikes, 
and I make it a rule never to load a triac to more than half 
its rated maximum current in applications where full 
voltage could be applied to a cold filament. 

Theatrical dimmers reduce inrush problems by keeping 
filaments warm with a blackout voltage of 12.5 V RMS. 
You may find that this results in a perceptible filament 
glow. If you reduce the blackout voltage to 6 V, you will 
kill the glow while still keeping the filaments warm 
enough to avoid inrush problems. 

Finally, I suggest that readers interested in precise light 
level control and color mixing should consult the follow- 
ing books: 

• The SCR Manual, 4th Edition. General Electric Co, 
1967 or later. This is the basic bible on proportional con- 
trol and SCR/Triac circuit design. 

• Sylvania GTE Lighting Handbook. Sylvania Co, any 
recent edition. This is a handy reference book on in- 
candescent lamps, fixtures, and space lighting principles. 

• CORTL1 (Computer Output of Real Time Lighting In- 
formation), The Mimi Garrard Dance Company, Soho 
Loft Theatre, 155 Wooster St, New York NY 10012, 
1978. (The cost is $10.) This describes a complete lighting 
system using digital dimmers under the control of an 
8080-based microcomputer: about fifty pages on how it 
came to be, over one hundred pages of detailed technical 
information, including detailed schematics and software 
listings in 8080 assembly language, and some operating 
information. It's very readable, and you get a tremen- 
dous amount of both solid information and speculation 
about future possibilities; likewise, it's an excellent source 
book for the money. The system works really well, too! I 
have seen it in action a number of times. ■ 



Technical Forum is a feature intended as an interactive 
dialog on the technology of personal computing. The subject 
matter is open-ended, and the intent is to foster discussion and 
communication among readers of BYTE. We ask that all cor- 
respondents supply their full names and addresses to be printed 
with their commentaries. We also ask that correspondents supply 
their telephone numbers, which will not be printed. 



194 Febiuary 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 128 on inquiry card. 



♦« 



^ 



IT TALKS 



55 



"FAST TALKER S-100 

LOW DATA RATE S100 SPEECH BOARD 

• UNLIMITED SPEECH POSSIBILITIES 

• S100 INTERFACE 

• USES TEXAS INSTRUMENT TMS 5200 V.S.P. 

• SOFTWARE VOICE DATA ASSEMBLER 

• 32 WORD VOCABULARY INCLUDED 

• AUDIO AMP W/SPEAKER 

• ASSEMBLED AND TESTED 



NEW TECHNOLOGY SPEECH PROCESSOR 
ALLOWING UNLIMITED SPEECH 
POSSIBILITIES DELIVERY FROM 
STOCK 



$329 



TMS-5200 VOICE SYNTHESIS PROCESSOR 
Chip with Data Sheet $69.00 



"CONTROL 

TALKER II" 

• 32 INPUT LINES (TTL) 

• 32 10 AMP (50V) OUTPUT LINES 

• Z80 BASED SYSTEM 

• 8K PROM (NOT SUPPLIED) 

• 1K RAM 

• VOICE OUTPUT 

• SINGLE BOARD 

Excellent Controller for Automation 
Burgular Alarms, Phone Solicitation, 
Relay Control, Value Control and many 
other possible uses. 



$550 



POLYESTER 

CAPACITORS + & - 

10% TOLERANCE 50V 

Value 1+ 25+ 100 + 

-001m) 13 .II 08 

0012ml 13 ii .08 

0015ml .13 .II 08 

.0018ml ,13 .11 ,08 

0022ml .13 .11 ,08 

0027ml .13 .11 08 

0033ml .13 .11 .08 

,0039ml .13 .11 .08 

.0047ml .13 .11 .08 

-OOSBm! .13 .11 .08 

0068ml .13 .11 08 

.0082ml .13 .11 08 

■Olml .13 ii ,08 

012ml 13 .11 08 

.015ml 13 .11 .08 

.018ml .14 .12 .09 

022ml .14 12 09 

,027ml ,14 .12 09 

033mf )4 .12 09 

■039ml .is .13 io 

047ml .is 13 ,io 



1ml 
,12ml 

15ml 
18ml 
,22ml 
27ml 
33ml 
39ml 



SOCKETS 

LOW-PROFILE SOLDER TIN 



Pari* 
SBLT 
S14LT 
SI6LT 
SiBLT 
S20LT 
S22LT 
S24LT 
S28LT 
S40LT 



1+ 25 + 100 + 



LOW-PROFILE GOLD 



1 + 25+ 100 + 



Part* 

S8LG 30 27 24 

S14LG 34 31 27 

SI6LG .39 .35 .31 

SiBLG .45 .40 36 

S20LG 50 45 40 

S22LG 53 48 42 

S24LG 59 53 47 

S28LG 67 61 54 

S40LG 99 .88 .75 

WIRE-WRAP SOLDER TIN 



Pari* 
S8WT 
S14WT 

S16WT 
S18WT 
S20WT 
S22WT 
S24WT 
S28WT 
S40WT 



1+ 25+ 100 + 



WIRE-WRAP GOLD 



Pari* 

S8WG 
S14WG 

S16WG 
S18WG 
S20WG 
S22WG 
S24WG 
S28WG 
S40WG 



1+ 25+ 100 + 



74LS TTL 



Pari* Price 

74LS00 
74LS01 

74LS02 .: 

74LS03 .: 
74LS04 
74LS05 
74LS08 

74LS09 .: 
74L510 
74LS11 
74LS12 
74LS13 

74LS14 .! 

74LS15 : 

74LS20 .: 

74L521 .: 

74LS22 .: 
74LS26 
74LS27 

74LS28 .: 
74LS30 

74LS32 .; 
74LS37 

74LS3B .: 
74LS40 

74LS42 .1 

74LS47 .! 

74LS4B I,' 

74LS51 .; 

74LS54 .: 

74LS55 .: 

74LS73 ,< 

74LS74 ,i 

74LS75 .! 

74LS76 .! 

74LS83 .! 

74LS85 1.J 

74LS86 .' 

74LS90 .1 

74LS92 .1 

74LS93 .i 

74LS95 { 
74LS107 

74LS109 .' 

74LS112 J 

74LS113 .4 

74LS114 A 

74LS123 £ 

74LS124 .« 

74LS125 .i 
74LS126 

74LS132 ,( 
74LS136 

74LS138 .i 
74LS139 

74LS145 1.; 

74LS147 2.. 

74LS148 U 
74LS151 



74LS152 
74LS153 
74LS154 
74LS157 
74LS158 
74LSI60 
74LS161 
74LS162 
74LS163 
74LS164 
74LS165 
74LS166 
74LS170 
74LS173 
74LS174 
74LS175 
74LS1B1 
74LS190 
74LS191 
74LS192 
74LS193 
74LS194 
74LS195 
74LS196 
74LS197 
74LS221 
74LS240 
74LS241 
74LS242 
74LS243 
74LS244 
74LS245 
74LS251 
74LS253 
74LS255 
74LS257 
74LS258 
74LS259 
74LS260 
74LS261 
74LS268 
74LS273 
74LS283 
74LS365 
74LS366 
74LS367 
74LS36B 
74LS373 
74LS374 
74LS375 
74LS377 
74LS386 
74LS390 
74LS393 
81LS95 
81LS96 
81LS97 
81LS98 



CRYSTALS 

(Part* Includai frequency In MHZ) 



SV1.S432 

SY2 

SY2.4576 

SY3579 

SY4 

SY5.068 

SY6 

SY6.144 

SY8 

SY10 

SY12 

SY14.318K 

SY15 

SY18 



Price 

5 75 
575 
5.75 
5.75 
5 75 
4 50 



i 50 



%WT & YrWT CARBON FILM 
5% RESISTORS 



3 3K 
3 6K 
3 9K 



5 6K 

6 2K 
6 8K 



27K 
30K 
33K 



I10K 


) IM 


120K 


1.2M 


130K 


1 3M 


150K 


ISM 


160K 


1.6M 


180K 


1 8M 


200K 


2M 


220K 


2 2M 


240K 


24M 


270K 


2.7M 


300K 


3M 


330K 


33M 



910 



510K 
560K 
620K 
680K 
750K 
820K 



MINIMUM ORDER PER TYPE: 5 pes - 
any qty 5 pack ® $.25 

MINIMUM ORDER PER TYPE: 100 pes 
Price Per 100 Pk: 

QTY 'AWT 



ViWT 



100 up 

1.000 up 
5.000 up 
10.000 u 



TRANSISTORS 

2N2219A S .35 



SYlf 



132 



DIODES 
Switching 



2N2222A 




.25 


2N2905A 




30 


2N2907A 




25 


2N2369A 




.25 


2N3904 




.20 


2N3906 




20 


PN2222* 




.19 


PN2907A 




.19 


VOLTAGE 


REGULATORS 


Part* 


Case 


Price 


78L05 


T092 


.45 


78L12 


T092 


4 5 


78L15 


T092 


45 


79L05 


T092 


.65 


79L12 


T092 


65 


79L15 


T092 


.65 


7805P 


TO220 


1.20 


7812P 


TO 220 


1 20 


7815P 


TO220 


1 20 


790 5P 


TO220 


1.25 


7912P 


TO220 


1 25 


7915P 


TO220 


1.25 


7805K 


T03 


1.50 


7812K 


T03 


1 50 


7815K 


T03 


1 50 


7905K 


T03 


1.60 


7912K 


T03 


1.60 


7915K 


T03 


1.60 


309H 


T039 


.95 


309K 


T03 


1.25 


317P 


TO220 


1.95 


317K 


T03 


295 


323K 


T03 


5.50 


337P 


TO 220 


2 40 



RAMS 



ZENER 
DIODES 

Vi WT 
Pari* Price 

1N5231B .20 

IN5239B .20 

1NS242B .20 

1N5245B 20 

1N5248B .20 

1 N5250B .20 

1N5252B 20 

1N5255B 20 

1 WT 

1N4733A 30 

1N4739A .30 

1N4742A ,30 

1N4744A 30 

1N4746A 30 

1N4747A .30 

1N4749A 30 



EPROMS 

2708 S 7 

2716 * 5V 12 

TMS2716 14 

2732 39 



CERAMIC DISC 
CAPACITORS 50V 

Value 1 + 25 + 100 -t 

4.7pf 07 06 .04 

10pf 07 .06 .04 

22p1 ,07 06 04 

33P' 07 ,06 04 

39pl .07 .06 .04 

47pf 07 06 .04 

68pf 07 .06 .04 

'00pf 07 06 .04 

I50p1 .07 06 04 

220pl .07 .06 04 

270pl .07 ,06 i)4 

330pf 07 06 .04 

470pl .07 06 .04 

OOlmf .07 .06 .04 

,O022mf .07 06 .04 

0033ml 07 06 .04 

0O47mf 07 .06 .04 

Olmf 07 .06 04 

022mf io .08 .06 

,033ml io 08 .06 

,047ml ,ii .09 .07 



SOLID DIPPED TANTALUM 

CAPACITORS 20% 
Value Volts 1 + 25+100 + 



1.5ml 
2.2mf 
3.3ml 
4.7ml 
4.7ml 
6.Bml 
10ml 
10ml 



RECTIFIERS (1A) 

100 4 



12/1 00 
10/1.00 
10/1 00 
10/1 00 



LINEAR 

M = 8 PIN 
N = 14/16 PIN 
Pari* Price 

LF3S5M 1 10 

LF356M 1 10 

LF357M 1 10 

LM301AM 35 

LM307M 35 



LM308M 
LM3MM 
LM318M 
LM324N 
LM339N 
LM377N 
LM380N 
LM381N 
LM555M 
LM556N 
LM565N 
LM566M 
LM567M 
LM709N 
LM710N 
LM711N 
LM741M 
LM747N 
LM145BM 



Part* 

7406 

7407 

7416 

7417 

7423 

7425 

7445 

7446 

7460 

7470 

7480 

7469 

7494 

7497 

74100 

74104 

74105 

74116 

74121 

74128 



2 95 
2 95 
2 95 



MICROPROCESSORS & SUPPORT 

Parte Price 



8216 
8224 
8226 



5 95 
325 
5 95 
3 25 
3 95 
3 25 



8228 
8238 
8251 
9255 
8257 
Z80A 
Z80A-CTC 



5 50 
5 50 

7 50 

8 95 



.■ 

6502 
6522 



12 95 
1395 

5 95 
7 50 

6 95 



4000 CMOS 
B SERIES ONLY 

Pari* Price 

4000 35 



4007 
4008 
4009 



4020 
4021 
4022 
4023 
4024 
4025 
4026 
4027 
4028 
4029 
4030 
4034 
4035 
4040 
4041 
4042 
4043 
4044 
4046 
4047 
4048 
4049 
4050 
4051 
4052 
4053 
4060 
4066 
4068 
4069 
4070 



4075 
4076 
4077 
4078 
4081 
4082 
4093 
4503 



MIN ORDER: $10.00 SHIPPING: ADD $2. 
GA RESIDENTS ADD 3% SALES TAX 



00 



MASTERCARD AND 
VISA WELCOME 



MAILORDERSSOUTHERN SEMICONDUCTORS INC. 

BOX 986 

LAWRENCEVILLE. GA. 30246 PHONE ORDERS: 

OEM AND INSTITUTIONAL INQUIRIES INVITED (404) 963-3699 



Circle 129 on inquiry card. 



BYTE Febmary 1981 195 



Kmim)p> 



you're always 
a winner! 



SUPER NOVA 

Big Five Software 

C/S-80 $14.95 

GALAXY INVASION 

Bio F lv« So (twin 

C/S-80 $14.95 

HELLFIRE WARRIOR 

Aulomitld Simulation! 

O/S-80 $29.95 

D/Apple $29.95 

C/S-80 $24.95 

STARFLEET ORION 

Automated Slmuliilom 

C/S-80 $19.95 

C/ApplB $19.95 

C/Pet $17.95 

O/S-80 $24.95 

D/Appls $24.95 

RESCUE AT RIGEL 

Automitid Slmulltlom 

D/S-80 $24.95 

O/Appla $24.95 

C/S-80 $19.95 

C/Apple $19.95 

C/Pet $19.95 



VISICALC 

Hidlo Stuck 

O/S-80 $95.00 

3 GRAPHIC 

Sibnii Computing 

C/Atarl $29.95 

HI-RES MYSTERY HOUSE 

On Llm Syolomi 

D/Apple $32.95 

HI -RES WIZARDS 
PRINCESS 

On Llm Syltlmi 

O/Apple $24.95 

3 MILE ISLAND 

Mull So twin 

D/Appla $39.95 

BEST OF MUSE 

Mull Soltwirl 

D/Appla $39.95 

GLOBAL WAR 

Mun Sottwiti 

C/Apple $17.95 

O/Appla $24.95 



PINBALL 

Acorn Soltwirl 

C/S-80 $14 

D/S-80 $20 

DUEL-N-DROIDS 

Acorn Software 

O/S-80 S20. 

C/S-80 $14 

PIGSKIN 

Acorn Sattwire 

C/S-80 S9.S 

SUPER SCRIPT 

Acorn Soflwin 

D/S-80 $29. 

MIDWAY CAMPAIGN 

Anion Hill 

C/S-80 $15. 

C/Appla '. . . .$15 

C/Pet $15 

PLANET MINERS 

Avilon Hill 

C/S-80 $15. 

C/Appla $15 

C/Pet $15. 



NINE GAMES FOR 
PRE-SCHOOL CHILDREN 

try Bwrgi Blank 

16K. . S-80 $9.95 

KEYBOARD VIDEO PRINTER 
EXTENDER (KVP) 
by Unco Mkklui 

0/16. . S-80 $19.95 

C/4. ..S-80 $14.95 

RPN CALCULATOR 

by Hunil Starkly 

C/16. .S-80 $9.95 

STBO-UC 
by Linca Mkkhii 

4/M. .S-80 $24.95 

ST-BOD SMART TERMINAL 

byLancaMkklui 

C/16. .S-80 $49.95 

0/32. . S-80 $79.95 

STAO 

by Paul Van dar El|k 

16/M. . S-80 $24.95 



TINY COMP 

by David Boftlke 

D/32. .S-80 

STAR TREK 

by Lanca Mlcklus 

C/16. .S-80 

APL80 

by Phelps Galas 

D. . S-80 

C. . S-BD 

TRS-80* MEMORY 
DIAGNOSTIC 

by Dive Stambaugh 

D/16. . S-BO 

KRIEGSPIEL II 

by Ron Potkin 

C/16. . S-80 

UP PERISCOPE 



CCA-OM 

Panonil Soltwirl 

C/S-80 $74.95 

C/Apple $99.95 

DESK TOP PLANNER 

Panonil Sottwin 

O/Appla $99.95 

MONTY 

Panonil Sottwin 

C/S-BO $24.95 

C/Apple $27.95 

D/S-BO $27.95 

D/Appla $27.95 

LEVEL III BASIC 

Mlcroiott 

C/S-80 $49.95 

MuMATH 

Mlcrololt 

D/S-BO $74.95 

EDITOR-ASSEMBLER 

Mlcroioll 

C/S-80 $29.95 



OLYMPIC DECATHLON 

Mttroiotl 

C/S-BO $24.95 

D/S-80 $24.95 

BASIC COMPILER 



D/S-80 $195.00 

ADVENTURE MICROSOFT 



D/S-80. . . 
FORTRAN 



D/S-BO 

NEWDOS 80 

Apparal 



SCREEN MACHINE 

Settip* Inc. 

C/Apple $19.95 

D/Apple $29.95 

APPLE TALKER 

Soltapa Inc. 

C/Apple $15.95 

DUNGEON CAMPAIGN 

Synergistic Soltwirl 

O/ApplB $17.50 

C/Apple $14.95 

WILDERNESS & DUNGEON 
CAMPAIGN 

Symrglitlc Sollwin 

D/Apple $32.50 

WILDERNESS CAMPAIGN 

Synarglitlc Software 

C/Apple $17.50 

D/Apple S19.95 

ODYSSEY 

Synirglillc Sottwin 

D/Apple $29.95 



HIGHER TEXT 

Synergistic Software 
D/Appla 



C/16 . S-80 
X-WING II 

by Chris Fraund 

C/16. .S-80. . 



HIGHER GRAPHIC 

Synergistic Software 

D/Apple $24.35 

MODIFIABLE DATA BASE 



MAILING LIST DATA BASE 

Syi 

D/Apple $34.50 

PROGRAM LINE EDITOR 

Synergistic Software 

D/Apple $40.00 

BISMARCK 

Strategic Si 

C/S-80 $49.95 

D/S-80 $59.95 

D/Apple $59.95 



MORLOC'S TOWER 



1 1 rtlPLE OF APSHAI 
•lions 

C/S-80. $24.95 

C/Pet $24.95 

D/S-80 $29.95 

D/Apple $29.95 

DATESTONES OF RYN 

.jtomited Simulations 

D/S-80 $19.95 

D/Apple $19.95 

C/S-80 $14.95 

C/Apple $14.95 

C/Pel $14.95 

FORTE 

Solupo inc 

C/Apple $19.95 



INVASION OF ORION 

Aulomitld Slmulltloni 

D/S-BO $24.95 

D/Apple $24.95 

C/S-80 $19.95 

C/Apple $19.95 

C/Pel $19.95 

AOVENTURELANO 

Adventure Intarnatlonel 

C/S-BO $14.95 

C/Apple $14.95 

PIRATE'S COVE 

Adventure Internetlcml 

C/S-80 $14.95 

C/Apple $14.95 

MISSION IMPOSSIBLE 

Adventure Intermtlenel 

C/S-BO $14.95 

C/Apple $14.95 

MYSTERY FUN HOUSE 

Adventure Inlernitlonil 

C/S-BO $14.95 

C/Apple $14.95 



SUPER TEXT II 

Mnta UnHmire. 



D/Apple . .$150.00 

THE VOICE 

Muse Software 

D/Apple $39.95 

U-ORAW II 

Musa Software 

D/Apple $39.95 

APPILOT II EDU-DISK 

Muse Softwere 

D/Apple $99.95 

BEST OF BISHOP 

Softapa Inc 

D/Appla $39.95 

EDITOR ASSEMBLER 

Hayden Software 

O/Apple $49.95 

SUPER APPLE BASIC 



SARGON II 

Heyden Sottwin 

D/S-80 $34.95 

D/Apple $34.95 

C/S-BO $29.95 

C/Apple $29.95 

AIR TRAFFIC CONTROLLER 

Sansallonel Softwere 

C/S-80 $9.95 

C/Apple $9.95 

SUPER INVASION 

Semitlonil Softwere 

C/Apple $19.95 

SPACE WAR/SUPER 
INVASION 

Sentltlonel Software 

O/Apple $29.95 

DATA FACTORY 

Micro Lob 

O/Apple $100.00 

DOGFIGHT 

Micro Lib 

O/Apple $29.95 



C/S-80 

C/Apple 

C/Pel 

B-1 BOMBER 



NORTH ATLANTIC CONVI 



INTRODUCTION TO 
PROGRAMMING IN BASI. 



C/Atari 

3 D TIC TAC TOE 



CHESS 

Atari 

C/Atarl $39.f 

STAR RAIDERS 

Atari 

C/Atarl $15. 1 

SUPER BREAKOUT 

Atlfl 

C/Atarl $39.! 

EDITOR ASSEMBLER 

Atari 

C/Atarl $15.! 

VIDEO EASEL 

Atari 

C/Atarl $39.! 

INVESTMENT PORTFOLIO 

Small Sylliml Sottwin 

C/S-BO $49.! 

WALL STREET CHALLEN 

Image Computer Products 

C/Atarl $14.: 



WARPATH 
by Hen Potkin 
C/16. S-80 $14.95 

MAGIC PAINTBRUSH 

Mark Pelciirikl 

D/32 /A ROM $29.95 

THREE-D GRAPHICS 

Mirk Pale zirekl 

0/4B/A ROM $29.95 

PORK BARREL 

Beat pa Blink 

C/16 /A $9.95 

AUTOMATED DISK 
DIRECTORY 

Bamware 

C/|2]/32/S-B0 $19.95 

PATHWAYS THROUGH THE 

ROM 

SdtlSkJaPublkjThtni 

plua $1. shipping . . .$19.95 



VISICALC 

Pereonel Softwere 

O/Apple $149.95 

O/Atarl $199.95 

INTERLUDE 

Syntonic Softwere 

C/S-80 $16.95 

C/Apple $16.95 

D/S-80 $19.95 

O/Apple $19.95 

SPECIAL DELIVERY EXTRACT 

fluellty Software Dtitrlbuton 

O/S-80 $125.00 

FORTH II 

Softapa Inc. 

D/Apple $49.95 

APPLE LISTENER 

Softapa Inc. 

C/Apple $19.95 



T SHORT 

Web Internetlenel 

C/S-BO 19 95 

ULTRA MON 

Intarpro 

C/S-80 $24.95 

AMBUSH 

Strategic Slmulltlom 

D/Apple $59.95 

BASKETBALL 
Atari 

C/Atarl $39.95 

MUSIC COMPOSER 

Atari 

C/Atarl $59.95 

BLACKJACK 

Atari 

C/Atarl $14.95 

HANGMAN IN BASIC 

Atari 

C/Atarl $14.95 



PYRAMID OF DOOM 



C/S-BO $14.95 

C/ApplB $14.95 

VOODOO CASTLE 



C/S-80 $14.95 

C/Apple $14.95 

THE COUNT 

Adventure inlernetlonal 

C/S-80 $14.95 

C/Apple $14.95 

STRANGE ODYSSEY 



C/S-80 $14.95 

C/Apple $14.95 

FIN-PLAN 

Hiydan Software 

D/S-80 $74.95 

SCRIPSIT 

HadlO Shark 

C/S-80 $65.00 

D/S-BO $95.00 



SOFT MUSIC 



D/S-80 $150.00 

GALACTIC EMPIRE 

Broderbund Software 

D/Apple $24.95 

GALACTIC REVOLUTION 

Broderbund Software 

D/Apple $24.95 

GALACTIC TRADER 



D/Apple $24.95 

ASTEROIDS IN SPACE 

Quality Soilware 

O/Apple $19.95 

FASTGAMMON 

Duality Software 

C/S-80 $19.95 

C/Appla $19.95 



MIND MASTER 



C/Atari $14.9 

SKILL BUILDER I 

t Products 

C/Atari $19.9 

STRATEGY PACK I 

tmage Computer Products 

C/Atari $19.9! 

STRATEGY PACK II 

Image Computer Products 

C/Atari $19.9 

ALL STAR BASEBALL 



Circle 130 on inquiry card. 



Model-ll, 64K RAM 
Model-Ill, 16K RAM 
Model-Ill, 32K Dual Disk 
Pocket Computer v*7 Interface 
TRS-80 Color Computer 
TRS-80 Color Computer Expanded 
CQMM-80 Interface 
CHATTER BOX Interface 
DISK-BO Interface 
Expansion Interface, no RAM 
Expansion Interface, 16K RAM 
Expansion Interface, 32K RAM 
RS-232-C Board 
TRS-232 Printer Interface 
16K Memory Kit, TRS-keypad 
16K Memory Kit, TRS-Exp. Int. 




OUR PRICE 


LIST PRICE 


$3899.00 


$3599.00 


- $999.00 


$929.00 


$2495.00 


$2299.00 


$298.95 


$263.00 


$399.00 


$359.00 


$599.00 


$519.00 


$179.00 


$159.95 




$259.95 


$349.95 


$329.95 


$299.00 


$279.00 


$418.00 


$339.00 


$537.00 


$399.00 


$99.00 


$89.00 




$59.95 


$119.00 


$5'9.00 


$119.00 


$59.00 


ATARI 800 


$849.00 




ATARI 400 


$529.00 





ATARI' JACC 16K RAM $149.00 
AXLON 32K RAM $259.00 

APPLE II* or APPLE II + 
48K $1119.00 





TRS-80* 

COLOR COMPUTER 

4K $359.00 

16K with extended 

BASIC $519.00 



TRS-80* 
MODEL III 



16K $929.00 
32K with two drives $2299.00 






OUR PRICE 


LIST PRICE 


Upper/lower Mod Kit 


$59.00 


$24.95 


Video Reverse Kit 




$23.95 


CPU Speed-up Kit 




$24.95 


Percom Electric Crayon, w/ cable 




$279.95 


TRS-80 Dust Cover (3pc set),M0D-l 


$9.95 


$7.95 


TRS-80 Computer Case 


$109.00 


$99.95 


TRS-80 Monitor Case 


$84.00 


$84.00 


Percom, TFD-100, 40-track 


$429.95 


$399.00 


Percom, Dual TFD-100 Drives 


$849.00 


$799.00 


Percom, TFD-40, 40-track 


$399.95 


$379.00 


Percom, TFD-200, 77-track 


$675.00 


$629.00 


Hardside, 40-track Disk Drive 


$389.00 


$329.00 


Percom Data Separator 




$29.95 


Extender Cable 




$15.95 


2-Drive Cable 


$29.95 


$29.00 


4-Drive Cable 


$39.95 


$39.00 



PMC -80 

Personal Microcomputers 

A "work-alike" computer to the TRS-80* Model 
I, Level II. Complete Level II, 12K BASIC ROM by 
Microsoft. 100°'d software compatible with Radio Shack 
programs and other independent suppliers. Built-in 
cassette player. Will operate with any Radio Shack 
peripherals and others. Interface Adapter permits Ex- 
pansion Interface with memory expansion to 48K to be 
added. Expansion Interface will also permit the addition 
of Radio Shack compatible 5V«" disk and disk 
operating systems, RS-232, printers, etc. Reg. $645. 

OUR LOW $599. 




DISK-80 



Disk Controller (up to 4 drives) 

Data Separator 

Incl. 16K of RAM 

Provision for an additional 16K RAM 

TRS-BUS Connector for future expansion 

ONLY $339.00 



PRINTERS 

Microline-80 $599.00 

Microline-82 $769.00 

Epson MX-80 $569.00 

Centronics 737 $839.00 

Vista V300 $1799.00 

HARDWARE ITEMS ONLY: 

TERMS: Prices ind speculations in tubject to changi HARDSIDE iccapti VISA 
& MASTERCARD, Certified checks end Money Orders; Personal checks accepted 
(takes 3 weeks to clear) HARDSIDE pays all shipping charges (within the 48 
atatea) on all PREPAID orders OVER S100.00.On all orders under S100 a S2.50 
handling charge must be added. COD orders accepted (orders over $250 require 
25^0 deposit) there la a 55.00 handling charge. UPS Blue Label, and Air Freight 
available at extra cost. 

■TRS-80, APPLE and ATARI are trademarks ol Tandy, Apple Computer Co., 
and Warner Communication, respectively. 



iO 



JJJJJJJA 



T5€:HPRD5ID€ 

6 South St .Milford, NH 03055 (603)673-5144 
TOLL FREE OUT-OF-STATE 1-800-258-1790 



Circle 131 on inquiry card. 



Technical Forum 



Build a Null Modem 



Robert Haar, 1675 Thetford Rd, Towson MD 21204 



When connecting computers, terminals, and com- 
munication equipment, it is sometimes useful to have a 
device called a null modem. To understand what a null 
modem is and why you might need one, it is first 
necessary to know what a modem does and what is 
meant by the term RS-232C serial interface. 

Modems 

You probably have some idea of what a modem does. 
It allows computers and terminals to communicate over 
phone lines. This is done by converting serial binary data 
(individual bits transmitted one bit at a time) into audible 
tones that can be sent over normal telephone lines. 
Another modem at the opposite end translates these tones 
back into a stream of bits, which is then regrouped into 
8-bit bytes. Figure 1 is a diagram of this setup. The most 
common type of modem is called Bell 103 A compatible. 

RS-232C Serial Interface 

The term RS-232C refers to a standard that specifies 
the connection between a modem and either a computer 
or a terminal, covering the physical, electrical, and func- 
tional aspects of that interface. We are most familiar with 
the physical side of this standard since it describes the 
ubiquitous 25-pin D-shaped connector (the DB-25) that is 
used on most terminals and computer serial I/O (in- 
put/output) ports. The electrical aspects of the standard 
specify what kind of electrical signals can be applied to 
the pins of such a connection. The functional part says 
what the signals on each pin are supposed to mean. 

The modems shown in figure 1 are called DCE (data- 
communication equipment), while both the terminal and 
the computer are called DTE (data-terminal equipment). 
It makes no difference whether a unit is a terminal, a 
computer, or anything else — if it connects to a modem, it 
is DTE. One pin in the RS-232C connector is designated 
as a transmit-data line. This pin carries serial data from 
the DTE to the modem (DCE). Another pin is called re- 
ceive-data, and its data goes in the other direction. It is 
important to note that the transmit/receive designation is 
always defined in reference to the DTE-to-DCE connec- 
tion. 



Technical Forum is a feature intended as an interactive 
dialog on the technology of personal computing. The subject 
matter is open-ended, and the intent is to foster discussion and 
communication among readers of BYTE. We ask that all cor- 
respondents supply their full names and addresses to be printed 
with their commentaries. We also ask that correspondents supply 
their telephone numbers, which will not be printed. 



Null Modems 

The name "null modem" suggests a black box that 
looks like a modem but doesn't do anything. To see why 
you would need an "empty" modem, suppose that the 
terminal and the computer shown in figure 1 are in the 
same room and you wish to connect them together. You 
might be able to physically connect them if you have a 
cable with a DB-25P plug (male connector) on the end 
and the other has a corresponding socket, the DB-25S. 
But if both of them have been wired to connect to 
modems, you have a problem. Both will be sending infor- 
mation on the same transmit-data pin and both will be 
expecting to receive data from the other on the same 
receive-data pin. This would be equivalent to the effect of 
talking to someone on the telephone while the telephone 
handset is upside down. It just won't work. 

The simplest variety of null modem cross-connects the 
transmit- and receive-data lines as well as connecting the 
ground pins, which are required to establish a voltage 
reference for the other signals. In many instances, this is 
all you will need to allow the terminal and computer to 
talk to each other. In some cases, either the terminal or 
the computer requires other signals in addition to the 
data and ground lines. Table 1 lists the most commonly 
used pins in the RS-232C interface, along with their usual 
abbreviations and meanings. 



Pin Number and 




Name 


Function 


1 (AA) 


FG (frame ground), protective ground 




connection. 


2 (BA) 


TD (transmit data), from DTE to DCE. 


3 (BB) 


RD (receive data), DCE to DTE. 


4 (CA) 


RTS (request to send), the DTE asking 




permission to send to the DCE. 


5 (CB) 


CTS (clear to send), the DCE granting 




transmit permission. 


6 (CC) 


DSR (data set ready), indicates that the 




DCE is powered up. 


7 (AB) 


SG (signal ground), ground reference for 




the TD and RD signals. 


15 (DB) 


TC (transmit clock), clock used to 




generate the serial transmitted data 




(DCE to DTE). 


17 (DD) 


RC (receive clock), clock for received 




data (DCE to DTE). 


20 (CD) 


DTR (data terminal ready), indicates that 




the DTE is powered up. 


22 (CE) 


Rl (ring indicator), says that the incom- 




ing phone line is ringing; used with 




modems with answer capability. 


24 (DA) 


XTC (external transmit clock), like TC but 




from the DTE to the DCE. 


Table 1: Summary 


of RS-232C serial interface connections 


and their function. 





198 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



When You Have To Face A Deadline 




Arm Yourself With Pascal/M f+ 



You know what a monster a deadline 
can be ifyouhaveto face it without the 
proper tools. Arm yourself with an 
integrated set of programs, designed 
from the beginning for production use, 
all tuned to the single goal of producing 
reliable software. Pascal/MT+ is a fully 
integrated program production system 
including our compiler, debugger, dis- 
assembler and linker. 

Used by many companies, large and 
small, Pascal/MT+ produces highquality 
reliable products in an amazingly short 
amount of time. Our run-time library 
contains all the tools needed to begin 
program construction immediately. 
Pascal/MT+ produces efficient, small 
native machine code demanded by 
today's product developers. All of our 
library routines and features work 
exactly the same on 16-bit systems as 
they do on 8-bit systems so you can 
increase your capability without re- 
writing any of your software. Your 
production quality products demand 
production quality tools. Order 
Pascal/MT+ now, call us today! 



Payment Terms: 

Cash, Check, UPS, C.O.D. 

Mastercard, VISA, 

Company P.O. 



Pascal/MT+ Features: 

An International Standard: 

Pascal/YT+ conforms to the ISO Standard 
for Pascal, our competition doesn't even 
come close! A report on the performance 
of Pascal/MT+ on the Pascal validation 
suite is included with each compiler. 



Modular Program Compilation: 

The Pascal/MT+ modular compilation 
mechanism allows construction of fully 
coupled modules and programs allowing 
the modularization of large programs 
without any sacrifice in either space or 
time efficiency. 



Efficient Native Code: 

All versions of Pascal/MT+ produce effi- 
cient, compact NATIVE OBJECT CODE. In an 
independent benchmark Pascal/MT+ out- 
performed all other Pascal compilers on 
our target machines. In addition it pro- 
duced the smallest final programs by 
including only the minimum run-time 
overhead necessary. 

Circle 132 on Inquiry card. 

/ MT Micro SYSTEMS \ 

1562 Kings Cross Drive 
Cardiff, California 92007 (714) 755-1366 



Totally Portable: 

Pascal/MT+ has been designed from the 
beginning to generate code for many dif- 
ferent microprocessors. Pascal/MT+ pro- 
grams you create today can bere-compiled 
to run on a more powerful machine 
tomorrow. All of the extended language 
features are present in every version of the 
compiler. This means you won't have to 
start over when the customer demands 
more, more and more. 

Extensions: 

Pascal/MT+ has many extensions to the 
Pascal language too numerous to describe 
in detail here. Our 160 page user's guide 
describes the features and gives examples 
of how to use them. A short summary of 
features is listed below: dynamic strings, 
BCD and Floating point reals, AMD9511 
support, bit, byte and unsigned word 
manipulation, I/O port access, afull imple- 
mentation of the NEW and DISPOSE heap 
and many others. 

Target Machines: 

Available now 8080, 8085 and Z80 

Available soon 8086, 8088 

Coming 68000, 6809 and Z8000 




Pricing: 

8080/Z80 - $250.00 
Others Call 

Communicalion Arts. Hunlington Beach. CA 



Technical Forum, 



TERMINAL 



MODEM 



PHONE 
"LINE 



MODEM 



COMPUTER 



Figure 1: Diagram of a typical setup that allows a terminal to 
communicate with a computer over standard telephone lines. 
The modems shown are called DCE, or data-communication 
equipment, while both the terminal and the computer are called 
DTE, or data-terminal equipment. When referring to the RS- 
232C serial interface, the transmit/receive designation is always 
defined in terms of a DTE-to-DCE connection. 

Many terminals and computer serial I/O circuits 
generate the request-to-send and data-terminal-ready 
signals and expect to receive the corresponding signals 
clear-to-send and data-set-ready back from the modem. 
If these are not turned on, the DTE will not allow itself to 
transmit or receive data. If you plug together two pieces 
of equipment, both of which are configured as DTE, their 
data-terminal-ready and request-to-send signals will be 
connected together, and neither will know how to get the 
required data-set-ready or clear-to-send acknowledg- 
ments. Again, the solution is to cross-connect the cor- 
responding signals so that the DTR signal output of one 
device goes to the ready DSR input of the other and each 
unit's RTS signal goes to its own CTS input. 

The clock signals listed in table 1 are rarely used. If you 
need them, cross-connect them. Sometimes a device will 
need the ring indicator from a modem before it will start 
accepting incoming data. This can be obtained by con- 
necting this pin to the DTR pin of the other device. 




FORTH 
for CP/M t 



Conquer the wait while the editor or compiler loads. Conquer excessive 
disk I/O. Conquer boredom during yet another compilation or assembly 
just to squash a tiny bug. Conquer memory squeeze on application 
programs. 

Tim in Engineering now offers CP/M users a complete, integrated, 
memory resident full FORTH system. Powerful editor. Incremental 
FORTH compiler. Z80/8080 assembler. Virtual memory. Fast .17 
second/K-byte disk I/O. Top level command processor. All using your 
standard CP/M BIOS. 

Ready to run for only $95. User Manual alone, $20, credits toward 
software purchase. 

Place your order today — Then go FORTH and conquer! 



^ 



2A 



MITCHELL E.TIMIN ENGINEERING COMPANY 

9575 GENESEE AVENUE ■ SUITE E2 ■ 
SAN DIEGO ■ CALIFORNIA 92121- 

TELEPHONE (711) 455-9008 



VISA 




^ 


& 



^ 



CONNECTOR A 
PIN NUMBER 


1 


IFG) 


2 


(TD) 


3 


(RD) 


4 


(RTS) 


5 


(CTS) 


8 


(CD) 


7 


(SG) 


22 


(Rl) 


6 


(DSR) 


20 


(DTR) 



CONNECTOR B 
PIN NUMBER 



X 



n 



1 (FG) 

2 (TD) 

3 (RD) 

4 (RTS) 

5 (CTS) 
8 (CD) 
7 (SG) 
22 (Rl) 

6 (DSR) 

20 ( DTR ) 



(jrnuii. jdd iiS Itemi shipped w.ttiln 46 kiDuii for C OD... 
■FORTH InlerctlCrOup '••ip.ilal Rnra'chCorp 



Figure 2: The interconnection scheme for a null modem. A null 
modem is a "black box" that allows two pieces of data-terminal 
equipment to communicate with each other when a phone line is 
not required (such as when they are in the same room). If the 
two pieces of equipment were connected without the use of a 
null modem, both would be sending information on the same 
RS-232C connector pin and also would expect to receive data on 
the same pin. 



Construction 

Figure 2 is a diagram of an interconnection scheme that 
works in most cases. If you need a different set of signals, 
it may be modified; table 1 provides the necessary infor- 
mation. In some cases you will need to connect a device 
that requires the DSR control signal to another that 
doesn't generate the corresponding DTR signal. In this 
event, connect the DSR pin of the first device to its own 
DTR pin. 

If you buy one of the commercially produced null 
modems, you will probably get a box about the size of a 
large paperback book, with two female connectors 
(DB-25S sockets). I found it more convenient to use one 
male and one female connector, because their pin 
numbers are mirror images of each other. Placing them 
back-to-back lines up all the pins with the same number. I 
bolted one-inch separators between the screw holes of the 
two connectors to hold them in place and then wired the 
connections as shown in figure 2. I wrapped the whole 
thing in electrical tape to seal it. The result is a much 
smaller package than the commercial product. It can easi- 
ly be attached to the end of the RS-232C cable and left 
there. 

Keeping to my practice of documenting whatever I 
produce, I drew a diagram like figure 2 on adhesive label 
material and placed it on the null modem's cover. If in the 
future I need to know which pins are connected, I won't 
have to remove the covering or hunt through my files for 
the circuit description. It is always right there. 

For Further Research 

If you would like more comprehensive information on 
this subject, consult chapter 26 of the book Technical 
Aspects of Data Communication by John McNamara, 
published by Digital Press. ■ 



200 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 133 on Inquiry card. 



LOWEST PRICE - BEST QUALITY 



NORTH STAR 




North Star Horizon 2 

2-6% Disk Drives 
32K Double Den 
Factory assem. & tested 
Factory guaranteed 
List 3095 



only 



$2274 



POWERFUL NORTH STAR BASIC FREE 
SUPERB FOR BUSINESS & SCIENCE 

FACTORY ASSEMBLED & TESTED LIST ONLY 

HORIZON-1-32K-DOUBLE DEN $2695 $1980 

HORIZON-2-32K-QUAD DENSITY 3595 2674 

HORIZON-2-64K-QUAD + HARD DISK 9329 7149 

HORIZON RAM ASSM 16K=$389. 32K = $579 

HORIZON RAM KIT SALE1 16K = $314 32K = S469 

HORIZONDISKDRIVESALEDOUBDEN SAVE! 315 

NORTH STAR HARD DISK 18 Mb 4999 $3929 

PASCAL-PLUS 14,18 OR 36 DIGIT PRECISION 249 

SUPERBRAIN 



ZENITH 




SUPERBRAIN QD 64K 

List $3995 only $2995 



Z-89 48K 

List $2895 only $2299 



TERMINALS Z-1 9 $725 

INTERTUBEIII om y $725 

DIP-81 PRINTER om y $395 




MICROTEK $675 

NEC PRINTER $2569 
TRACTOR, THIMBLE, RIBBON 



InterSystems 

ITHACA INTERSYSTEMS 2A 




List $3595 You Pay Only 



Z-BOACPU 4 MHz 
64K Dynamic RAM 
Front panel 
V I/O— with Interrupts 
FDCII Disk Controller 
20 slot motherboard 

$2795 



PASCAUZ + THE FASTEST PASCAL $375 

GET READY FOR ITHACA'S Z-B000 

8086 16 BIT CPU & SUPPORT CARD SEATTLE $575 

MORROW 8" DISK 

DISCUS 2D + CP/M® 600K ONLY $938 
DISCUS 2 + 2 + CP/M® 1.2 MEGA B. $1259 
ADD DRIVES 2D = $650 2 + 2 = $975 
2D-DUAL + CP/M® + MICROSOFT BASIC = $1555 
$2293 VALUE OVER 32% OFF! 

WHILE THEY LAST 



MORROW HARD DISK 

26,000,000 BYTES!! 

LIST $4995 ONLY $3995 

CP/M® IS INCLUDED! 



SAVE ON MEMORY AND PROGRAMS 




SYSTEMS MEMORY 64K A & T 4mHz 

$599 
SYSTEMS MEMORY 64K BANK SELECT 
1789 
CENTRAL DATA 64K RAM $599 

ITHACA MEMORY 8,'16-blt 64K $845 

SEATTLE MEMORY 8/16 BIT 16K 4Mhz 
$275 
SSM KITS Z-80 CPU $221 

VIDE0BRDV834Mhz $412 

ANADEX PRINTER DP-9500-1 $1349 

CAT NOVATION MODEM $169 

TARBELL DISK CONTROLLER DO $445 
ECONORAM2A8KASSM $179 

NSSE 1-22 & P01 TERRIFIC PROGRAMS 
ONLY $10. EACH 
NORTHWORD 294 MAILMAN 234 
INFOMAN $364 

TARBELL COMPUTER-PHONE 



RCA-COSMACVP-111 99 RCA-COSMAC 
VP-711 $199 

COLORIRAINBOW385 
SPECTRUM $289 

EZ-80 Machine Language Tutor $25 
EZ-CODER Translates English to BASIC 
$71 
ECOSOFT FULL ACCOUNTING PKG 

$315 
BOX OF DISKETTES $29 

SECRETARY WORD PROCESSOR 

The Bestl $99 
TEXTWRITER III Book Writing Program 

$112 
GOFAST NORTH STAR BASIC Speeder 
Upper $71 
Which Computers are BEST? 
BROCHURE FREE 

North Star Documentation refundable 
W/HRZS20 



AMERICAN SQUARE COMPUTERS BEATS ADV. PRICES 



square 

American [j|j] Computers 

919-889-4577 KIVETT DR. JAMESTOWN N.C. 27282 919-883-1105 



CP/M Is a registered trademark of Digital Research, Inc. 



Circle 134 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



201 



Software Review 



IRV, a TRS-80 Utility Program 



Teri Li, POB 481, Peterborough NH 03458 



IRV is a new machine-language utility program for the 
BASIC programmer. It supplies features that all pro- 
grammers will appreciate, and it uses less than 1 K bytes 
of programmable memory (unless you add to its defini- 
tions). 

IRV gives you a flashing cursor, auto repeat on any 
key held down for more than one second, and keyboard 
control of the cassette remote plug (you can turn the 
cassette motor on and off simply by hitting shift-clear). 
[In this review, words in italics refer to keys of the same 
name as those on the TRS-80 keyboard.... GW] This is 
followed by the ability to define any key to your chosen 
definition. As sold by The Programmer's Guild, all of the 
shifted alphabetic keys are defined as BASIC keyword 
commands (see table 1); this duplicates features of the 
utility program called T-Short. 

However, if you don't like any of the provided defini- 
tions, you can easily change them by pressing the shift 



Computers Terminals Modems 

We are the stocking terminal distributor offering full service, 
laintenance coverage. 





CRTs 




Perkin-Elmer Bantam 550B 


$694 


Microterm Mime HA 


$819 


NEW! 550E 


755 


Televideo912C 


799 


NEW! 550S 


879 


Televideo 920C 


839 


Perkin-Elmer 1251 


1564 


IBM 3101 Model 10 


1191 


DECVT100 


1668 


Model20 


1375 


Microlerm ACT VA 


779 






Hardcopy Terminals 




DECLA34DA 


$939 


Teletype Model 43 KSR 


$999 


DEC LA34AA 


1095 


with RS232 & 7' connector 




DECLA120 


2338 


NEC Spinwriter 5520 
typewriter quality with tractor, 
ribbon & thimble 


3088 




Printers 




Perkin-Elmer 650/655 


$899 


Centronics 779 


$1068 


screen printer, 100 CPS 




NEC Spinwriter 5510 


2754 


MicrolineSO 


594 


typewriter quality with 




Centronics 737 


837 


tractor, ribbon & thimble 






Modems 




Bell212A — Penril 300/1 200 


$799 


Bell103/113 — USR-330A 


$399 


1 200 and 300 baud/manual 




300 baud. Auto-dial/ Auto- 




originate, autoanswer 




onginate/Auto-answer. 




Auto-dialoptionfor 


799 


USR-330D 300 baud. Manua 


339 


300/1200 




originate/Auto-answer. 




All modems connect to phone 


line via 


RJ11C standard extension phone 


jack. 


Acoustic Coupler 




Computers 




Phone Link— 300 baud. 


$179 


USR-1600P 


$4099 



Originate/answer. Compact 

Leasing rates on request. Write or call for product Information. 
10 day money back guarantee on all products. 



m 



U.S. ROBOTICS inc. 

203 N. WABASH 
SUITE 1718 
CHICAGO, ILL 60601 
(312) 346-5650 



and down-arrow keys, followed by the shift (alpha) key 
you want to redefine. When you have finished defining, 
press the shift-down-arrow combination once more. (Hit- 
ting enter merely inserts a carriage return into the defini- 
tion.) This ability to redefine is not restricted to alpha 
keys: it extends to all of the keys on the keyboard, except 
for the shift keys and the shift-down-arrow key combina- 
tion. This means that you can redefine both the break 
and enter keys! 

How is this possible? Simple: IRV pokes new addresses 
into the keyboard Device Control Blocks used by the 
TRS-80. The new addresses point to IRV, which is in high 
memory. IRV processes each input keystroke before call- 
ing routines in read-only memory. This gives IRV its 
great power and versatility. 

If you decide that you don't want the programmed- 
keys mode in operation, you can turn this feature off by 
hitting shift-down-arrow twice. To turn it back on, hit 
the shift-down-arrow twice again. 

The usefulness of these definable keys is not restricted 
to single BASIC commands; you can actually define a 
key as any message, command, or series of commands up 
to a maximum length of 255 characters. This is true for all 
of the keys. If you were to exercise this option to its 
fullest, you would fill almost 25 K bytes of program- 
mable memory (100 keys, uppercase and lowercase, 
times 255 characters per key). 

Yes, one keystroke can represent a series of commands. 
Hitting enter inserts a carriage return but does not end the 





Name: 
IRV 


Language: 

Z80 machine language 


Type: 

BASIC utility 

Manufacturer: 

The Programmer's Guild 

POB 66 

Peterborough NH 03458 


Computer: 

Radio Shack TRS-80, 
Model I with Level II 
BASIC and 16 K bytes or 
more of memory (disk 
drive optional for cassette 
version only) 


Price: 

Cassette $24.95 
Disk $29.95 


Documentation: 

5-page booklet, 14 by 22 
cm (5Vi by 8Yi in) 


Format: 

Cassette or 5-inch 
floppy disk 


Audience: 

BASIC programmers 



202 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 135 on Inquiry card. 



COfTlPUTERS? 

NO WAY WITHOUT 
KNOW-HOW. 




COMPUTER GAMES 




MICROCOMPUTER 
INTERFACING 




MACHINE 

AND 

ASSEMBLY 

LANGUAGE 

PROGRAMMING 

Of THE 

PtHMI 



' 




J. Victor Nahigian 
William Hodges 

Exciting collection of 
computer games written 
in 8K of memory BASIC 
including: Blackjack, 
Boggle, Escape, Golf, 
Poker, StarTrekand 
more, 
paper $10.95 



Bruce Artwick 

Nine chapters include: 
selecting the right 
microprocessor, 
microcomputing input 
and output, interface 
components and their 
characteristics, plus 
much, much more, 
cloth $21.95 



MACHINE & ASSEMBLY 
LANGUAGE 
PROGRAMMING OF 
THE PDP-11 



Arthur Gill 

Explains the basic 
organizational features 
of the PDP-11, including 
machine and assembly 
techniques, 
cloth $19.95 



PASCAL 

PROGRAMMING 

STRUCTURES 



ProgriMTimirtsStrwtyres 




\|_r. 



G*«9* iJAChwry 



Joseph Carr 

All-in-one guide to Z80 
pin definitions, CPU 
control signals, support 
chips, interfacing 
peripherals, and more. 
paper$10.95 



George Cherry 

The exceptional features 
of this book include: the 
whole-part method of 
language instruction, a 
mnemonic device for 
remembering the 
skeleton of a Pascal 
program, plus much more, 
cloth $16.95 



W.K.Giloi 

Part I is devoted to data 
structures and 
algorithms, including 
the subject and chapters 
on data structures, data 
bases, and list handling. 
Part II emphasizes 
languages and their 
interpreters, 
cloth $22.95 



To order books by phone, call toll free: 

1-800-228 -2022 

(In Alaska: 1-907-276-3242; in Nebraska 1-402-571-4900; 

in Carolina (Puerto Rico): 1-809-752-1275, during store hours only). 

All books not available in all stores. 



INTERACTIVE 
COMPUTER GRAPHICS 




America's Favorite Bookseller 



)Jfct 






Circle 136 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 203 



Circle 137 on Inquiry card. 



BUSINESS SOFTWARE 



HIGH-QUALITY COMMERCIAL GRADE PRODUCTS 

SIMPLE DOCUMENTATION AND OPERATION 

END-USER HOTLINE AND NEWSLETTER 

RUNS UNDER CP/M AND CBASIC-2 IN 48K... 
ALL SYSTEMS WILL INTERFACE TO LEDGER. 



DESIGNED FOR VERY HEAVY OFFICE USE... ' 

REGULAR UPDATE SERVICES ARE AVAILABLE 

COMPLETE COMPUTER SYSTEMS AVAILABLE.. 

' HANDLES BOTH FLOPPY DISKS i HARD DISK ' 

' RUNS PERFECTLY ON 64K TANDY MODEL II. 



INSURANCE AGENCY - FOR INDEPENDENT AGENCIES HANDLING DIFFERENT LINES FROM SEVERAL 
UNDERWRITERS. AUTOMATIC POLICY CREATIONS, RENEWALS, INVOICING AND POSTING OF 

COMMISSIONS BY PRODUCER, CLASS, UNDERWRITER, AND CLIENT. HAS DIRECT AND AGENCY BILLED 
STATEMENTS PLUS DETAILED REPORTS AND LOSS HISTORY FILE. 

MlDICAL MANAGEMENT - FOR SMALL TO MEDIUM CLINICS. PATIENT MASTER, HISTORY, TICKET , 

AND SCHEDULING FILES. HANDLES ICDA-9 DIAGNOSIS CODES AND CPT-4 PROCEDURE CODES WITH 

STANDARD OFFICE CHARGES. AUTOMATIC MONTHLY STATEMENTS AND PRINTING OF AMA INSURANCE 
FORMS AS WELL AS OVER TWENTY DIFFERENT OTHER REPORTS. 

DIUTAL MANAGEMENT - SIMILAR TO MEDICAL EXCEPT DESIGNED FOR ADA PROCEDURE CODES AND 
CHARGES AND STANDARD ADA INSURANCE FORM. BOTH SYSTEMS HAVE A FORMS MENU FOR PRINTING 
ADDITIONAL STATE AND LOCAL INSURANCE FORMS AS WELL AS SPECIAL STATEMENTS. 

LEGAL TIME ACCOUNTING - FOR LAW OFFICES. HANDLES CLIENT FILES AND BILLING, 

APPOINTMENT SCHEDULING, AND COMPLETE CASE HISTORY FILES CATEGORIZED BY CASE TYPE, 
CLIENT, ATTORNEY, CASE NUMBER, AND DATE. HAS AUTOMATIC DEFAULT FOR STANDARD FLAT RATE 
OR HOURLY CHARGES BY CLASS OF CASE WITH MONTHLY ANALYSIS OF TIME SPENT BY EACH 
ATTORNEY IN EACH CATEGORY. LINKS FOR PRINTING STANDARD LEGAL FORMS ALSO PROVIDED. 

RIAL-ESTATE MULTI-LIST - COMPLETE HANDLING OF NORMAL DAILY FUNCTIONS OF AGENCY, 
INCLUDING PRODUCTION REPORTS OF MTD AND YTD SALES AND COMMISSIONS BY SALESMAN. HAS 
FULL MULTI-LISTING DATABASE SYSTEM FOR EASY VIDEO SELECTIONS OF ALL PROPERTY MEETING 
SPECIFIC PARAMETERS. MANY ANALYSIS REPORTS AVAILABLE, INCLUDING PROJECTED MORTGAGE 
PAYMENTS. LINKS PROVIDED FOR PRINTING STANDARD REAL-ESTATE FORMS. 

PLUS GENERAL LEDGER, ACCOUNTS PAYABLE, ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, PAYROLL, INVENTORY, ON- 
LINE ORDER ENTRY, REAL ESTATE MULTI-LIST, FINANCIAL ANALYSIS, TAX PREPARATION, FULLY- 
INTEGRATED WORDPROCESSING, DATA BASE MANAGEMENT, CP/M FOR MODEL II, AND MUCH MOREI 



UNIVAIR. INC. 



PROtTSSlONAl. SERVICES YOU CAM DEPEND ON! 



ADDRESS i 10 3 2 7 LAMBERT INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT, ST. LOUIS MO. 63145 USA 

TELEPHONE 314-426-1099 MASTERCHARGE AND VISA CARDS ARE ACCEPTED I 

PROGRAM MANUALS - $20 CREDITED TOWARD PURCHASE CATALOG - $5 IMMEDIATE SHIPMENTSI 



o 
o 
o 
o 

o 
o 
o 



o 
o 
o 
o 
o 
o 

o 
o 

o 

o 



BUY COMPUTERS 
BY MAIL ORDER 
AND SAVE 16% 



APPLE HARDWARE 



16K 
32K 
48K 
Disk with Controller 



S 958.00 
$1,040.00 
S1.099.00 



495.00 
440.00 
445.00 
655.00 
215.00 



Disk 
Pascal 

Graphics Tablet 
Symtek Light Pen 
Versawrlter Digitizer System 

S 215.00 
Vldex Vldeoterm 
80 Column Card $ 315.00 
with graphics-ROM $ 335.00 
Apple Clock S 225.00 

Micro Soft Z-80 Software Card 
wlthCPM S 319.00 

Parallel Printer Card 

S 145.00 
Communications Card with 
connecting cable $ 185.00 
Apple II Firmware Card 

S 149.00 
Integer Basic Firmware 

S 149.00 



SOFTWARE 

Controller (General Business 
System) S 519.00 

Cashier (Retail Mgmt & 
Inventory System) $ 199.00 
Apple Post Mailing List 

$ 45.00 

CROMEMCO 

SAVE 16% ON ALL EQUIPMENT 



NORTHSTAR 

Horlzon-2-32KDD 

VERBATIM 
& MEMOREX 

SW 



$2,390.00 



$ 27.50 



PLASTIC BOXES 

5V«" S 2.25 

8" $ 3.50 



Send certified check (regular checks require 2 weeks to clear) or 
charge to VISA or Master Charge. Customer pays shipping. 

MIRO COMPUTERS, INC. 

27 Long Meadow Place, South Setauket, L.I., N.Y. 11720 

(516) 423-7955 CALL MON.-SAT., 10AM-6PM 



O 



Keystroke 


Result 


Keystroke 


Result 


shift-Q 


SYSTEM (enter) 


shift-Q 


GOTO 


shift-W 


RND( 


shift-H 


RIGHT$( 


shift-E 


ELSE 


shift-J 


INKEYS 


shitt-R 


RETURN (enter) 


shift-K 


CSAVE" 


shift-T 


THEN 


shift-L 


CLOAD 


shift-Y 


LEN( 


shift-Z 


EDIT 


shift-U 


USING 


shift-X 


STR$( 


shift-l 


INPUT 


shift-C 


CHR$( 


shift-0 


ASC( 


shift-V 


VAL( 


shift-P 


LPRINT 


shift-B 


INT( 


shift-A 


STRING$( 


shift-N 


NEXT 


shift-S 


GOSUB 


shift-M 


MID$( 


shift-D 


DATA 


shift-® 


CONT (enter) 


shift-F 


LEFT$( 


shift-right-arrow 


TAB( 


Table 1: One-keystroke strings supplied with IRV. When 


IRV is loa 


ded into the TRS-80, any of the 


single shifted 


keystrokes 


shown here will cause its associated string to be 


"typed" on 


the video display. 


(The word "enter" means that 


the last character typed is the 


same as pressing 


the enter key, 


thus causing the line to be executed.) These 


equivalencies 


may be < 


•.hanged or deleted by using the character- 


redefinitior 


mode. 







definition, so you can actually define one key to execute 
an entire series of commands when pressed. It will do this 
while executing either a machine-language or a BASIC 
program. For example, the back-up routine in TRSDOS 
(call BACKUP, answer all the questions: date, password, 
drives used, etc) can be abbreviated to a one-keystroke 
command. This is convenient, especially if you are 
duplicating several disks. 

One interesting advantage to IRV is that you can define 
the unshifted as well as the shifted keys. I used this 
feature to set up my keyboard to simulate the experimen- 
tal Dvorak typewriter layout. [The Dvorak system is a 
typewriter with a keyboard layout that increases speed 

and accuracy during touch-typing GW] Other 

possibilities could include rearranging the keys to accom- 
modate foreign languages that use the standard Roman 
alphabet, but use letters in frequencies different from 
English. 

At this point, IRV is far superior to T-Short and other 
keystroke shorthand routines. But IRV does not stop 
here: it has even more capabilities. 

IRV gives you on-screen BASIC line editing similar to 
the on-screen line-editing features of the Commodore 
PET. To use this feature, first list your program on the 
video, then hit the shift-break key combination. The 
blinking rate of the cursor will change slightly. Now you 
can use the four arrow keys to move the cursor anywhere 
you like on the video screen. Full-screen wraparound is 
supported: if the cursor leaves the screen from the bot- 
tom, it will appear at the top of the screen in the same col- 
umn; leaving the screen to the right will put the cursor on 
the left of the same line. 

Once you have put the cursor on the line in which you 
are interested, you may type anything you want over the 
line. If there are too many characters on the line, hitting 
the clear key will delete 1 character. If you need more 
room, each time you press the break key one space will 
be added, over which you may type. Holding down 
either key for more than one second causes each key to 
repeat its function as long as the key is depressed. 



204 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 138 on inquiry card. 



MODEL 




$ DISCOUNT $ 



MODEL 



TRS-8O0® 



26-4002 

64K 1 Drive 

$3440.00 

26-4160 1 Drive EXP . $1035.00 
26-4161 2 Drive EXP . . 1575.00 
26-4162 3 Drive EXP . . 2115.00 
26-4501 Gen. Ledger . . . 180.00 

26-4502 Inventory 180.00 

26-4503 Payroll 360.00 

26-4554 Acct. Rec 180.00 

26-4701 FoMron 270.00 

26-1 157 A Daily Wheel . 2495.00 
26-1158 Daisy Wheel II 1799.00 



COMPUTER SPECIALISTS 

26-1 155 Quick Printer II $187.00 

26-1 U5 RS-232 Boord 84.00 

26-1 140 "O" K Interface 249.00 

26-1141 "16" K Interface 359.00 

26-1 142 "32" K Interface 469.00 

26-1 160 Mini Disk ■ Drive 419.00 

26-1161 Mini Disk -Additional 419.00 

26- 1 1 54 Lineprinter II 699.00 

26-1156 Lineprinter III 1799.00 

26-1 159 Lineprinter IV 859.00 

26-1 166 Line Printer VI 1080.00 

26-1563 Scrlpslt • Disk 79.00 

26-1566 Vlslcalc 83.00 

26-1562 Profile 72.00 



NOTE: Call for ovoll'oblllty of VIDEO TEX, Model III, Color, 
and other new products. 




26-1061 4K I $630.00 

26-1062 16K III 888.00 

26-1063 32K III 

2-Drlves, RS232 2225.00 

COLOR 




*$wmm 




ALL OTHER R.S. SOFTWARE 

FURNITURE, STANDS, CABLES 

AND ACCESSORIES AT 

DISCOUNT FROM 

CATALOG PRICE. 



CEnTRonics 

Fast 100 CPS Centronics 

730 Printer $659.00 

Text Quality Centronics 

737 Printer $819.00 



Novation Cat Modem. .$149.00 
CCA Data Management 

System 72.00 

Adventure Games 

Games 1 -9 each 14.00 



Pocket Computer 



Model II Cobol Compi 


ler 


$360.00 




Cobol Run Time Packc 


P,e 


$36.00 






ODDBI 

aaaaa 

doobd 



icacooaacocasJcaeSDjjgjQijij 



26-3501 1.9K P.C 

26-3503 Cossette l/F. . 



.$225.00 
. . . 45.00 



14-812 Recorder 72.00 



26-3001 4K $360.00 

26-3002 16K 540.00 

26-3010 Color Video 360.00 

26-1206 Recorder 54.00 

26-3008 Joysticks 22.50 

S Acorn 
Software 
Products, Inc. 

GAMES: 

Allen Invasion $9.00 

Stock Market 9.00 

Star Trek 9.00 

Block 'Em 9.00 

Tlng-Tong , , 9,00 

UTILITIES: 

System Savers 14.00 

EDUCATION: 

Language Teacher 18.00 

FREE: COMPUTER CATALOG 
UPON REQUEST 



1-800-841-0860 Toll Free Order Entry 

MJCRQ MANAGEMENT SVSTEMS, INC. 



No Taxes on Out Of 
State Shipments 



Immediate Shipment 
From Stock on Most Items 



DOWNTOWN PLAZASHOPPING CENTER 

115CSECONDAVE.S.W. 

CAIRO, GEORGIA31728 

(912) 377-7120 Go. Prions No. 



•TKS-S0 ll a r*gllt«r*d trademark at th( Tandy Corp. 



R.S. 90 Day Limited Warranty 
F-48 Form Provided 

Largest Inventory 
In the S.E. U.S.A. 



Circle 139 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 205 



Circle 140 on inquiry card. 



IEEE-488 To TRS-80* INTERFACE 



■ I SCIMIFIC UfiHEKIIC IAHWKS1ES I 




MODEl 4tl-*Ot 






Everything needed to add powerful GPIB-488 

controller capability to TRS-80, 

Model 1, Level 2 or DOS 

Mod. 488-80B $225.00 + shipping, insurance & lax 

SPECIFY DISK OR TAPE 

For Model 3 Operation, Contact Factory 

SCIENTIFIC ENGINEERING LABORATORIES 

11 NEIL DRIVE • OLD BETHPAGE, NEW YORK 11804 
TELEPHONE (516) 694-3205 



'Trade Mark of Tandy Corp. There is no affiliation between Scientific Engineering 
Laboratories and Tandy Corporalion or Radio Shack. 



DECLSM1 
Components 

Dependable service 
at discount prices 

Domestic 
and Export 




mini 

Computer Suppliers, Inc. 

25 Chatham Rd., Summit, N.J. 07901 
Since 1973 

(201) 277-6150 Telex 13-6476 

©Mini Computer Suppliers. Inc. 
1979 




(a) 



FIRST, WRITE A SHORT BASIC 
PROGRAM TO PUT THIS GRAPHICS 
FIGURE ON SCREEN 




(b) 



100 MAN $(1) = " 
105 MAN $(2) = " 




j j 



j j 



Figure 1: Use of IRV to directly create graphics in BASIC pro- 
grams. First write a short BASIC program that creates the shape 
you want to use. Running this program displays the shape on 
the video screen, as shown in figure la. Then use the line-editing 
feature of IRV to create BASIC statements (either PRINT or 
string-storage statements) that capture the shape, one text line at 
a time. In figure lb, the shape is stored in two entries of the 
string array MANS. Later, these graphic characters can be 
printed out in the same program using PRINT statements. 



If you are adding spaces to a line, you will notice that 
repeated addition of characters does not move the 
rightmost character down to the next line on the video 
display — instead, it causes the character to disappear 
from the screen. Likewise, if you have removed all the 
characters to the right of the cursor, the first character on 
the next line does not move up. The reason is that IRV 
looks only at the line on which the cursor is set. 

When the line is set to your liking, hit enter. This 
transfers the changes you have made in that line to the 
program. If you list the line, you will be able to see that 
the changes have been made. Should you discover that a 
line is misplaced, you can use this line-editing feature to 
type a new number over the old line number. When you 
hit enter, the new line will be inserted into its proper 
place in your program, and the old line will still be in its 
place. This feature is handy for moving lines around in 
your programs. 

The best advantage of the line-editing feature in IRV is 
that it may be invoked while in the TRS-80 edit mode. 
For example, it can be used to string several BASIC 
statements into one long multiple-statement line. Edit the 
line as you would normally, but when you are ready to 
insert, hit shift-break. Now position the cursor over the 
line that you wish to insert in the line being edited. Use 
the clear key to remove the line number (you don't want 
to insert a line number), then hit enter. List the edited line 
and you will see that both lines have merged: the second 
line is positioned where you entered the insert mode. 
Other uses include converting IF... THEN statements to 
IF... THEN... ELSE statements, or vice versa. 

Still another use for the IRV line editor is to put 
graphics characters directly into PRINT statements. First, 
use a short graphics routine to draw your figure on the 
video display. When you've finished with the drawing, 
enter the IRV line-editing mode. Type a line number 



206 Febiuary 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc Circle 141 On Inquiry Card. 



ITEM NO. 
WK-7 



CMOS SAFE 



IC INSERTION/EXTRACTION KIT 



KIT INCLUDES 



MOS-1416 14-16 CMOS SAFE INSERTER 
MOS-242B 24-28 CMOS SAFE INSERTER 
MOS-40 36-40 CMOS SAFE INSERTER 



• EX-1 

• EX-2 



14-16 EXTRACTOR 

24-40 CMOS SAFE EXTRACTOR 



OK MACHINE & TOOL CORPORATION 

3455 CONNER ST., BRONX, N.Y. 10475 U.S. A. 

PHONE 12121 991-6600 TELEX NO 125091 



RINTED IN U.S.A. 



PATENT PENDING 




INS-1416 


14-16 PIN DIP IC INSERTER 


$ 3.49 


MOS-1416 


14-16 PIN MOS CMOS SAFE INSERTER 


$ 7.95 


MOS-2428 


24-28 PIN MOS CMOS SAFE INSERTER 


$ 7.95 


MOS-40 


36-40 PIN MOS CMOS SAFE INSERTER 


$ 7.95 


EX-1 


14-16 PIN EXTRACTOR TOOL 


$ 1.49 


EX-2 


24-40 PIN CMOS SAFE EXTRACTOR TOOL 


$ 7.95 


WK-7 


COMPLETE IC INSERTER/ EXTRACTOR KIT 


$29.95 



MINIMUM BILLING J25.00. ADD SHIPPING CHARGE $2.00. NEW VORK RESIDENTS ADD APPLICABLE TAX. 



OK MACHINE & TOOL CORPORATION 3455 CONNER ST., BRONX, N.Y. 10475 (212) 994-6600/TELEX 125091 



Circle 142 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 207 



Circle 143 on Inquiry card. 




Model EP-2A-88 

EPROM Programmer 




Fast as Jackrabbits . . . Well, almost! 

In Australia, two rabbits can reproduce over 13 million offspring in 
3 years ... at 105 seconds for 2706's. the EP-2A-88 can reproduce 
1,892,160 EPROMS in 3 yeai-s. Single push button control, the 
EP-2A-88 checks if EPROMS are erased, programs and verifies. 
It also checks for defective EPROMS. 

Two basic models are available, The EP-2A-88-1 will accept Copy 
(CM) modules for the 2758, and 2716 EPROMS. The EP-2A-88-2 
will accept copy modules for the 2716, 2732 and TMS 2532 
EPROMS. Power requirements are 115 VAC 50/60 Hertz at 15 
watts. 

Pari No. Description Price 

EP2A88 1 EPROM Programmer $490.00 

EP 2A 88 2 EPROM Programmer 490.00 

CM-50 Copy Module for 2716. TMS 2516 EPROMS 25.00 

CM 70 Copy Module lor 2758 EPROMS 25 00 

CM 20 Copy Module lor 2732 EPROMS 25 00 

CM 40 Copy Module lor TMS 2532 EPROMS 25.00 

Non Standard Voltage Option (220 v. 240 v. KXlu] 15 00 

Optimal Technology, Inc. 

Blue Wood 127, Earlysville, Virginia 22936 
Phone (804) 973-5482 



directly onto the screen, then the word PRINT, and put 
quotes in front and at the end of the graphics characters. 
When you hit enter, that line will be entered into BASIC 
as a new line. When you list the line, you will see the 
graphics characters printed as BASIC keywords, but 
when you execute the line, the graphics figure will be 
drawn on the screen. You can also set the drawings equal 
to strings (see figure 1). 

Implementation Details 

IRV can be purchased in 5-inch floppy disk or cassette 
form. The cassette version has instructions for saving the 
file to disk; disk-based users may want to do this, even 
though the program takes exactly 17 seconds to load 
from cassette. Different versions of IRV are loaded (from 
either cassette or disk) depending on whether your 
TRS-80 has 16 K, 32 K, or 48 K bytes of memory. All 
three programs are contained on either the disk or 
cassette versions of IRV. You must also answer the 
MEMORY SIZE? prompt when entering BASIC in order 
to allow sufficient space for the storage of IRV and its key 
redefinitions. This is simple to do and is explained in the 
IRV booklet supplied with the software. 

IRV is available from several software suppliers, in- 
cluding The Programmer's Guild (POB 66, Peterborough 
NH 03458), The Software Exchange (6 South St, Milford 
NH 03055), and Scott Adams' Adventure International 
(POB 3435, Longwood FL 32750). IRV is sold with 
predefined keys (see table 1) and will operate in both 
Level II and disk BASIC. It is compatible with TRSDOS, 
NEWDOS, and OS-80. For those of you with new- 
version Level II ROMs (or read-only memories, which 
power up with the abbreviated message R/S L II BASIC 
instead of spelling out all the words), there is also a ver- 
sion of IRV that will operate on your keyboards: just 
specify that you have the new Level II ROMs. 

Conclusions 

• IRV is a versatile piece of utility software for the 
TRS-80 Model I BASIC programmer. It allows you to 
redefine any keystroke as any character or series of 
characters, and to modify BASIC programs by simply 
typing over a listing of the program. 

• IRV can be used to renumber BASIC lines or to merge 
several lines or parts of lines without having to retype the 
lines involved. This is a valuable aid when modifying an 
existing program. 

• IRV can be used to turn the cassette motor on and off 
without repeatedly plugging and unplugging the remote 
motor-control plug; this is a great help when trying to 
work with cassette tapes. 

• IRV gives every key an auto-repeat facility. 

[Editor's note: IRV is one of the most exciting pieces of 
software I've seen in a long time, primarily because it 
allows you to devise uses for it that are not specifically 
planned by the software designers. For example, when 
editing a line of BASIC code, you can use a single key 
that is defined as ten copies of the string "S D" (each of 
which will search for a blank and delete it) to take all of 
the spaces out of a line: this speeds up the task at hand by 
eliminating dozens of keystrokes. Because of its open- 
ended design, IRV can be used in a variety of situations, 
and I feel that it is as important and innovative as the 
popular VisiCalc program. Philip Mork, the author of 
IRV, is to be commended for his fine work. . .GW]| 



208 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 144 on inquiry card. 



Now NRI takes you inside the 

new TRS-80 Model III microcomputer 

to train you at home as the 

new breed off computer specialist! 



NRI teams up with Radio Shack 

advanced technolo y to teach 

you how to use, program and 

service state-of-the-art 

microcomputers... 
It's no longer enough to be just a 
programmer or a technician. With micro- 
computers moving into the fabric of our 
lives (over 200,000 of the TRS-80™ 
alone have been sold) , interdisciplin- 
ary skills are demanded. And NRI 
can prepare you with the first 
course of its kind, covering the com- 
plete world of the microcomputer. 
Learn At Home 
in Your Spare Time 

With NRI training, the program- 
mer gains practical knowledge of hard- 
ware, enabling him to design simpler, 
more effective programs. And, with ad- 
vanced programming skills, the techni- 




T raining Includes new TRS-80 Model III micro- 
computer, solid state volt-obm meter, digital 
frequency counter, and the NRI Discovery Lab 
with hundreds of tests and experiments. 

(TRS-80 is a trademark of the Radio Shack division of landy Corp.) 




cian can test and debug systems quickly 
and easily. 

Only NRI gives you both kinds of 
training with the convenience of home 
study. No classroom pressures, no night 
school, no gasoline wasted. You learn at 
your convenience, at your own pace. Yet 
you're always backed by the NRI staff 
and your instructor, answering questions, 
giving you guidance, and available for 
special help if you need it. 

You Get Your Own Computer 
to Learn On and Keep 

NRI training is hands-on training, 
with practical experiments and demon- 
strations as the very foundation of your 
knowledge. You don't just program your 
computer, you introduce and correct 
faults. . .watch how circuits interact. . . 
interface with other systems . . . gain a 
real insight into its nature. 

You also build test instruments and 
the NRI Discovery Lab, performing over 
60 separate experiments in the process. 
You learn how your trouble-shooting tools 
work, and gain greater understanding of 



the information they give you. Both mi- 
crocomputer and equipment come as part 
of your training for you to use and keep. 
Send for Free Catalog. . . 
No Salesman Will Call 

Get all the details on this exciting 
course in NRI's free, 100-page catalog. It 
shows all equipment, lesson outlines, and 
facts on other electronics courses such as 
Complete Communications with CB, TV 
and Audio, Digital Electronics, and more. 
Send today, no salesman will ever bother 
you. Keep up with the latest technology 
as you learn on the latest model of the 
world's most popular computer. If card 
has been used, write to: 

NRI Schools 

McGraw-Hill Continuing 
Education Center 
■VSl'ii 3939 Wisconsin Avenue 
■ ■nil Washington, D.C. 20016. 




BYTE February 1981 



209 



Maximum 
Functions 

Minimum 
Space 

Maximum 
versatility 

Minimum 
Price: 

SYSTEM 
SUPPORT 1 



If you ever need to crunch numbers, time 
i ntervals or events, create sequenced 
programs, check for power interruption, 
shuttle information through an RS-232C serial 
port at up to 19,200 Baud, tell your computer to 
do somethingat 02:47:37 AM on March 24th of 
1982, employ 15 levels of interrupts, 
or need EPROM or battery-backup RAM to 
accomplish any of the above. . .and want to do 
all this while fully conforming to all IEEE 
696/ S-1 00 standards. . .System Support 1 is 
here. 

Call (415) 562-0636,9 AM to5PMPST,for 
the name of a CompuPro retailer nearyou. 



System Support 1 prices: $295 Unkit, S395 A/T , $495 qualified under 
the Certified System Component high-reliability program. Math 
processor and ROM/RAM optional at extra cost. Pricesshown do not 
include dealer installation and support services. 



CompuPro™ 

^OAkRnTOrPOR^A94614 



SQI 

4513231 
1789216 
024867 
579460 





battery backup 
for one socket 



ELECTRONICS 

210 BYTE February 1981 




Circle 145 on inquiry card. 



THE COMPUPRO SYSTEMS APPROACH: 

Unlike "all-in-one" computers, CompuPro's modular S-100 systems HTP* TT POW^fTR 

are amazingly flexible machines that are ideal for high level industrial 111U11 1 VTT J^JA, 

commercial, and scientific applications. Full conformance to all IEEE TJTi° W P¥TT?17rf~IT?lVf A ATI" 1 !? 

696/S-100 specifications ensures well integrated systems performance, XXXvfXX I MliMXF \JM\LVH\1 1 Vjt^ 

as well as freedom from obsolescence in the years to come. A rVTTk ITiriTT rrfTnATTniTnTTrr, 

All CompuPro products meet the most demanding mechanical AIMD Xllljjl rUlOU (tH PI IT 
and electrical standards, accept the highest possible clock speeds for 

maximum throughput and are backed with one of the best - if not the best - warranties in the business (1 year limited warranty on all products 
2 year limited warranty for boards qualified under the Certified System Component program) 

When you're looking for a computer, there are lots of choices. But when you need a precision machine that is built for the future as 
well as the present, the choice narrows down to the most experienced name in the S-100 business: CompuPro 




NEW! COMPUTER ENCLOSURE 2 

Introductory price: $795 

Specify rack mount or desk top version. 

We just made it easier for you to move up to an expandable 
S-100 system. . .COMPUTER ENCLOSURE 2 is ready to accept 
boards the minute it's unpacked. Heavy-duty, fused, constant 
voltage power supply provides +8 V at 25 Amps (I), + 16V at 3 
Amps, and -16V at 3 Amps; 20 slot shielded motherboard, with 
active termination, offers high speed performance. Other 
features include dual AC outlets on rear, heavy-duty line filter, 
circuit breaker, quiet ventilation fan, reset switch, and black 
anodized front panel (with textured vinyl painted cover for 
desktop version). Rack mount version includes slides for easy 
pull-out from rack frame. 

Also available: COMPUTER ENCLOSURE 1. Same as above, 
but less power supply and motherboard. $289 desktop, $329 
rack mount. 



LOWEST PRICE EVER ON 

16K DYNAMIC RAMS - 8/$37 

Just what you would expect from the memory leader: top 
quality, low power, high speed (200 ns) 16K dynamic RAMs, 
backed up with a 1 year limited warranty. Expand memory in 
TRS-80* -I and -II computers as well as machines made by 
Apple, Exidy, Heath H89, newer PETs, etc. Add $3 for two dip 
shunts plus TRS-80" conversion instructions. Limited quantity. 



S-100 HIGH PERFORMANCE 

MOTHERBOARDS 

Actively terminated and fully shielded, these advanced 
motherboards handle the coming generation of 5 to 10 MHz 
CPUs as well as present day 2 and 4 MHz systems. Mechanically 
compatible with most computer enclosures. Unkits have edge 
connectors and termination resistors pre-soldered in place for 
easy assembly. 

20 slot motherboard with edge connectors - Unkit $174, A/T $214 
12 slot motherboard with edge connectors - Unkit $129, A/T $169 
6 slot motherboard with edge connectors - Unkit $89, A/T $129 



SOFTWARE 

PASCAL/M* : $175 complete 

PASCAL - easy to learn, easy to apply - can give a 
microcomputer with CP/M 18 more power than many minis. We 
supply a totally standard Wirth PASCAL/M* 8" diskette and 
comprehensive manual. Specify Z-80* or 8080/8085 version. 

8088/8086 MONITOR-DEBUGGER: $35 

Supplied on single sided, single density, soft-sector 8" disc. 
CP/M* compatible. Great development tool; mnemonics used 
in debug conform as closely as possible to current CP/ M'" DDT 
mnemonics. 



HIGH SPEED S-100 CPU BOARDS 

8 BIT CPU Z 

Like many others, we claim full conformance to IEEE 
696/S-100 specifications; unlike many others, we'll send you 
the timing specs to prove it. CPU Z includes all standard Z-80A' 
features along with power on jump, on-board fully maskable 
interrupts for interrupt-driven systems, selectable automatic 
wait state insertion, provision for adding up to 8K of on-board 
EPROM, and 16/24 bit extended addressing. Works with 6 MHz 
CPUs; supplied with 4 MHz CPU. $225 Unkit, $295 A/T, $395 
CSC. 

16/8 BIT CPU 8085/88 

When we shipped the first CPU 8085/88 board back in June of 
1980, we created a bridge between the 8 bit world of the present 
and the 16 bit world of the future. By using an 8088 CPU (for 16 
bit power with a standard 8 bit bus) in conjunction with an 8 bit 
8085, CPU 8085/88 is downward compatible with 8080/8085 
software, upward compatible with 8086/88 software (as well as 
Intel's coming P-Series), designed for professional-level high 
speed applications, and capable of accessing 16 megabytes of 
memory. . .while conforming fully to all IEEE 696/S-100 
standards (timing specs available on request). 

Looking for a powerful 8 bit CPU board? Looking for a 
powerful 16 bit CPU board? Then look at CPU 8085/88, the best 
of both worlds. 

Prices: $295 Unkit, $425 A/T (both operate at 5 MHz); $525 
CSC (with 5 MHz 80B5, 6 MHz 8088). Owner's manual available 
separately for $5. 

8 BIT CPU 8085 

This is a single 8 bit processor version of the above board, 
and may be easily upgraded to full 16 bit operation at a later 
date. $235 Unkit, $325 A/T, $425 CSC. 




MPX 1: THE ANSWER TO COST-EFFECTIVE 

MULTI-PROCESSING 

MPX 1, a powerful front end processor/system multiplexer, 
unloads the host CPU to handle heavy 8 or 16 bit 
multi-user/multi-task traffic. This results in greatly increased 
throughput and speed of operation. MPX includes an on-board 5 
MHz 8085 microprocessor, 2K of ROM, 4K or RAM, interrupt 
controller, and much more. Finally. . .multi-processing is an 
affordable reality. Call for pricing and delivery information. 



OTHER S-100 BUS PRODUCTS 

Active Terminator Board $34.50 Kit 

Memory Manager Board $59 Unkit, $85 A/T, $100 CSC 

Mullen Extender Board $59 Kit 

Mullen Relay/Opto-lsolator Control Board . $129 Kit, $179 A/T 

Spectrum color graphics board $299 Unkit, $399 A/T, $449 CSC 

2708 EPROM Board (2708s not included) $85 Unkit, $135 A/T, $195 CSC 

InterfaceM (dual RS-232 serial ports) $199 Unkit, $249 A/T, $324 CSC 

Interfacer 2 (3 parallel + 1 serial port) $199 Unkit, $249 A/T, $324 CSC 



S-100 MEMORIES FROM THE MEMORY LEADER 

CompuPro memories feature fully static design to eliminate dynamic timing 
problems, full conformance to all IEEE 696/S-100 specifications, high speed operation 
(4/5 MHz Unkit, 10 MHz A/T and CSC), low power consumption, extensive bypassing, 
and careful thermal design. 

Unkit 

8KRAM2A $159 

16K RAM 14 (extended addressing) $279 

16K RAM 20-16 (extended addressing and bank select) $319 

24K RAM 20-24 (extended addressing and bank select) $429 

32K RAM 20-32 (extended addressing and bank select) $559 

12BK RAM 21-128 (extended addressing) n/a 



A/T 


CSC 


$189 


$239 


$349 


$429 


$399 


$479 


$539 


$629 


$699 


$799 


n/a 


$2795 



Most CompuPro products are available in Unkit form, Assembled/Tested, or 
qualified under the high-reliability Certified System Component (CSC) program (200 
hour burn-in, extended 2 year warranty, more). Please note that unkits are not 
intended for novices, as de-bugging may be required due to problems such as IC 
inlant mortality. Factory service is available for Unkits at a flat service charge. 

TERMS: Prices shown do not Include daalBT Installation and support servlcas. Cal res add tai. 
Allow al least 5% shipping: excess refunded. Orders under SIS add S2 handling. VISAS and 
Mastercard orders (S25 ffttfi) call (415) 562.0636, 24 hrs. Please include street address (or UPS 
delivery. Prices are subject to change without notice. 

FREE CATALOG: Wanl more information? Then send lor our Iree catalog. For 
last 1st class delivery, add 41 cents in stamps; foreign orders add $2 (refundable with 
order). 

'LEGAL CORNER. ZSOAisa registered trademark of Zilog; TRS-80 is a trademark of the Tandy 
Corporation: PASCAL'M is a trademark of Sorcim: CP'M is a registered trademark of Digital 



COMPUPRO PRODUCTS ARE AVAILABLE 
AT FINER COMPUTER STORES WORLD-WIDE. . . 

CALL (415) 562-0636 FOR THE STORE NEAREST YOU. 

Circle 145 on inquiry card. 



CompuPro M 



(BP@®00iJ 

W^ ELECTRONICS ^ 



OAKLAND AiriHOHi, CA «46I4 



ELECTRONICS 
(415)562-0636 

BYTE February 1981 211 



BYTELINES 



News And Speculation About Personal Computing 



Conducted by Sol Libes 



U, 



'NIX Standard Called 
For: "/usr/group" is a newly 
formed group for users of 
UNIX and UNIX-like oper- 
ating systems. At a recent 
group meeting, a Western 
Electric representative 
disclosed that his company 
has granted approximately 
156 commercial licenses at 
about 244 commercial sites. 
Many present at the meeting 
complained about Western 
Electric's excessive charges 
for unsupported software. 
The company typically 
charges $12,000 for a single 
processor license and as 
much as $40,000 for users of 
the DEC [Digital Equipment 
Corporation) VAX machines. 

UNIX users, now faced 
with many different im- 
plementations of UNIX, are 
beginning to be concerned 
with standards. To help cope 
with the problem the group 
plans to issue a UNIX Users 
Cu/'de. 

Also at the meeting, 
Microsoft announced plans 
for implementations of its 
Xenix package on the Texas 
Instruments TI9900, IBM 
Series/1, and Point 4 Data 
Corporation systems. 

For more information 
write, /usr/group, POB 8570, 
Stanford CA 94305. 



u 



' CSD Pascal 4.0 To Be 
Released: A new version of 
UCSD Pascal will soon be 
released by Softech Micro- 
Systems. The good news is 
that Pascal 4.0 will have 
many new features, such as 
multitasking and better 
screen handling. In other 
words, it will be more flexi- 
ble, do more jobs, and be 
generally more powerful. 

The bad news is that it will 
generate code that includes 
four new p-code instruc- 
tions. Hence, the Pascal 
MicroEngine, presently the 
fastest available Pascal 



system, will not be compati- 
ble with the new 4.0 version. 
Of course, WD (Western 
Digital) can recode the 
MicroEngine microcode 
ROMs (read-only memories) 
to include the new instruc- 
tions, but I don't know. Con- 
sidering that it took WD 
nearly a year to come out 
with the present ROM set, I 
do not foresee the possibility 
of MicroEngine Pascal 4.0 
for some time yet. 



Vo 



olce Entry System 
For The Apple: Scott In- 
struments, Denton, Texas, 
will introduce an Apple ver- 
sion of its voice entry 
system. To be called 
"Applevet," this system will 
be able to recognize as 
many as 680 words or ut- 
terances. An $895 price tag 
for the system will include a 
plug-in board, a noise-can- 
celing microphone, and de- 
monstration disk. 



Vo 



olce-Operated Tele- 
phone Dialer Tested: 

Bell Labs, Murray Hill, New 
Jersey, has disclosed that it 
is testing a telephone dialer 
that is voice operated. The 
caller can ask for a 4-digit 
telephone extension or a 
name in the directory of the 
system, and the system will 
then dial the number. The 
dialer has already demon- 
strated a high reliability. If in 
doubt as to what it is told, it 
asks the caller to repeat the 
entry. 

The system uses a high- 
speed array processor at- 
tached to a minicomputer to 
detect the presence of 
speech and identify voice 
features to be used by a 
word recognizer. The word 
recognizer compares the 
features of the utterance to 
a subset of stored features 



and generates a word-candi- 
date list, which is ordered 
according to the probability 
of the word's occurrence. 
The system uses a feature 
template of the caller's 
voice, learned during a train- 
ing period, to recognize the 
caller's voice input and dial 
the number. The system re- 
cognizes only isolated word 
inputs, and the user must 
speak slowly and haltingly. 



w. 



here Are The 
64 K-BIt Memory ICs7 

At one time, memory size 
quadrupled every two years. 
But four years have now 
elapsed between the in- 
troduction of the 16 K-bit 
and the 64 K-bit memory 
ICs. Skyrocketing develop- 
ment costs and difficulties in 
working with such dense 
devices have caused most of 
the delay. It is likely that the 
next quadrupling will take 
even longer. 

Over two dozen suppliers 
are now delivering samples 
of 64 K-bit programmable 
memories to computer 
manufacturers; some of the 
samples are already in 
limited production. You can 
expect to see the first prod- 
ucts using 64 K-bit in- 
tegrated circuits in the third 
or fourth quarter of this 
year. However, do not look 
for their widespread use un- 
til sometime in late 1982 or 
1983, when prices should 
drop to under $10 each. 

American memory manu- 
facturers are extremely con- 
cerned about Japanese com- 
petition in this area, 
however. The first company 
to supply 64 K-bit circuits 
was Fujitsu Ltd, and eight 
other Japanese manufac- 
turers are jumping in too. 
Some manufacturers fear 
that the Japanese may snare 
60% to 70% of the 



64 K-bit memory market. If 
this occurs, the entire 
American computer industry 
may find itself in trouble. 



^mpple Stock Goes On 
Sale: Shares in Apple Com- 
puter Inc, one of the most 
eagerly awaited public stock 
offerings, went on sale early 
in December 1980. Apple of- 
fered 8% of the company's 
52.4 million shares (ie: 4.6 
million shares) at a price of 
$22 per share. 

Apple, incorporated in 
1977, reported profits of 
$11.7 million on sales of 
$117 million for the fiscal 
year ending September 26, 
1980. 1979's earnings were 
$5 million on $48 million 
sales, and, in 1978, sales 
were $7.8 million with pro- 
fits of $793,497. 

Steve Jobs, 25 years old, 
and Steve Wozniak, 30 years 
old, the creators of the 
Apple computer, each hold 
8.3 million shares. That 
means that they own well 
over $100 million worth of 
stock. A C Markkula, 32 
years old, who took Apple 
from a garage operation to 
its current enviable position, 
also holds 8.3 million shares. 
Venrock Associates, a ven- 
ture capital firm, holds 3.8 
million shares. Significant 
blocks are held by several 
other venture capital con- 
cerns. Xerox holds 80,000 
shares. 



ultatus Report On The 
IAPX-432: Late last spring, 
Intel announced its iPAX-432 
32-bit microprocessor with 
great fanfare. At that time, 
only very general specifica- 
tions were released and sub- 
sequently reported on in this 
column. (See "Intel Releases 
Data On 32-Bit Microproces- 



212 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 






zm 



O 



yg^ 



,VN^*S 



aftflttO" 



C^ 



OR^ 



[ttf>Y 



,oP<>? 8 



^rs!*3&5* 



>\G\^ 



«! 



'++OS2* 



09 <0 !°J 



,«eW 



,inon- 






J\W**. 






,wo»* 



fl\6t> v 



..mo* 9 *' 



«n8' 



«n»- 






Q>|0» OU 

«« 5 ' W °- n i«i*a',„, l*<> 8 * 8 ' 



rt anu* 



^25»<< 



*«CT<w 



««*«* 



aor 



WP 



t**220&«0* 



tllOO' 






16^1 



V,eN 






»**? 



Of*** 



• To* 85 .do^ 000 :^*^^ 



SOW 



tftf 



for 



rt\0»' 






»tt* 



«BI>»* 



own* 



.«»• 



;RSO os, 



^o° s 



«*2*fc* 



«t* 



ai«o\ 






oo^^ro^^ 



jew 
tons- 



»«0.*»' 

(OO 



cow** 






*&&&£&****» 



.11*. »39 5 * 



w 



'pllW<**' 



•8.»» S < 



«P. S 












BpiBWl"** 



eon 



^ 0,,<1 ,!i oi« 9SO! 



wmW* 8 ^ 






, Ptlce " 



>PP L 



„ « (8' sl " 9 






P»Cfc 



l0 o# 8 



^SBS^ 






JC^S 



ftVtf 









«SB 



,»! 



«10. 



\oi 



1W> 






piod 



■■^S^ 






1PS1. 



SB 






1*0" 



• - w 0. 



•'<iV 



flMOW 



6501 



imW' 09 . 



* l5 , o*»«* W 



1,6800 

on»°l W tf 



^ 8 



^> , °' 






tf»» 



O?!* 1 *^ NCl 



KC1 






■ffSl' 



SB- 



^pp^ 



ws* 6 ' :. m»« ^°?:» ,^»^ * B 



. W t?B t50,,0 



,100^9' 



,u»8 



•.tfSssS" 



6M8» ' 



,m« rt 



. (^OMO^ 



•»^r 



•«»-**iwS 



„#, 



»A30. 
»3»0. 
-»«50- 



Rei 



iu\i2^ 



cwj* 



ono 



'SbpsS- 






U^ „i\\« 



OOOB 



COI 



,mp« el 



'SSS* 



SSSSff ;;•■>-» 



.-^^.«" 

w CM* 1 " u 



,„ nssemttW 



»io. 






'* b !5oW 



ooti' 



1US80 



B0» w 
C605 1 



iiert* 



CPl* 



-aQ. 



.»3»- 



w» 



on** 



ibo* 



ve^ 7 ao on\sW«r^(*P' ' 






,*»•*" 



,ne*- 






\ oW* 



.«»■ 



»5?» 






W* 9 „ comf ont 

«***«! CO* 68 ' „ foW 

on* lW rt MSo'««" E 









,(Wn» rt 



slow 



^*t'5>S!*«*«* 



o»oo 



O 

COP' 



s^s^- 



9W6 ' , ft -»3 5 - 






pioot 
r r usW9 



o<5°*; 



Cool ' 



„Nseo' c,n< 



,oi*- 



sssi 



, oort ' 



^•Ksass^- 5 *" 



W'Toin*' 



^JffiS*^.*-^*-* 



^««^* N 




*^£ 



pioceo' 



foW 



,oW9 pl 






,o\<* 



poo' 



*8* 



5-0' 1 



n\o^' 



8.SS, 



Nff 



SB 






cp/»» 



on* s 



SCT?S, 



w 1 



Honu^ 



a ion» 



»!*• 



S^siotn 
eport 



pie 



(A*W9 



40^ 
Tx.»580 



del 



,l\n»on 



woo- 



, oo». 



•<i*<?t^*«-, 



soon 



BOB*' 

oom^ rt ' 



-^JT^^^^'w*^: 



-sSgiSSss 5 * 



,u»P w 



OS 

coW 
•HON 



fleWs ■ 



pjiwoW 



8,*8 



(*P.SB 



^ 

w-**.^. 



§SS- 



to^r*^° ns 

f'oo.^ L, e5 swn 



r^ssv-—*"' 



W cw»*?:. 



CP/* 08 . 



C8^W« 



. »150- 



.»250. 
,r80"»'* Wn 



«odK> 



^ppl- 



(,MP»* 



,6ll>' om 



3ffl) c 



foflnds- 



.eciof 



e« 



SS (.W 



,nnsw 



Report Writer 

trademark Carolina Business Computers 

Selector IV trademark Micro-Ap Pearl trademark 

ot CPU Int'l Pascal/M, ACT & TRANS 86 trademarks Sorcim 

CBASIC2 trademark Compiler Systems Mogic Wand trademark Small 

Business Applications Textwriter, Datebook & Milestone trademarks Organic Software 

Ultrasort-ll & FABS trademarks Computer Control Systems Magic Menu trademark of Charles Merrirt 

Copywriter, Copyproof & Diction trademarks Systronlcs Microstat trademark Ecosoft S-Basic trademark Topaz Programming 

Spellguard trademark ISA CP/M_& MP/M trademarks Digital Research TRS-80 trademark Tandy Superbroin trademark Intertec Data 



oov 



^55w*»* 



System's UCSD Pascal trademark of Regents of University of California WordStdr trademark Micro Pro Inn Spellbinder trademark Lexisoft 
For shipping add S5. In US; $10. outside US per package California residents add appropriate stale sales tax Terms: Prepaid check, 
M/C or VISA or In US COD (UPS) Dealer Inquiries Invited Prices quoted do not include dealer Installation & training Prices effective until April 1, 1981 



Circle 146 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



213 



BYTELINES 



sor," August 1980 BYTE, 
page 94.) During the fall, 
however, Intel made large- 
scale presentations to sev- 
eral major systems-level 
houses. Rumor has it that 
Intel will deliver a paper at 
the International Solid State 
Circuit Conference (ISSCC) 
this month, in which it will 
divulge full details on the ar- 
chitectural design of the 
iAPX-32. Intel should start 
delivering samples within 
another month or two. 

The iAPX-32 is a 3-chip set 
that uses more than 100,000 
transistors per IC (all 64-pin 
packages). The design of the 
instruction set is aimed at 
supporting high-level com- 
piled programs written in 
Pascal, Ada, and FORTRAN. 

Intel had also let it be 
known that it planned to 
supply microcoded firmware 
in the processor device that 
would directly execute the 
Ada high-level language. 
However, rumor currently 
has it that Intel is retreating 
from this concept. 



Status Report On 
1 6-Blt M Icrocomputers: 

The 16-bit scene matured 
during 1980. Intel sold about 
200,000 of its 8086 devices 
(at well over $100 apiece, 
Intel appears already to be 
profiting from this unit). By 
midyear, Zilog had managed 
to remove the bugs from the 
Z8000 and, by year's end, 
was in full production. 
Motorola must be given 
credit for designing the most 
powerful 16-bit microproces- 
sor (imagine having seven- 
teen 32-bit-wide registers 
and 23-bit addressing to 
reach 16 megabytes of 
memory directly). It must be 
considered a landmark 
achievement that Motorola 
was actually shipping 
limited production quan- 
tities of fully functional 
68000 devices by the end of 
1980 that met specifications. 
This is particularly im- 
pressive when you consider 
the number of elements in 
the device (about 70,000) 
and the large size of the 
silicon chip (246 by 280 
mils). 



In production now for two 
years, the 8086 is just begin- 
ning to develop a respec- 
table software base. For ex- 
ample, Digital Research is 
starting to supply an 8086 
version of CP/M. The soft- 
ware bases for the Z8000 
and 68000 are still extremely 
limited and are probably 
more than a year behind the 
8086 software base. 

National Semiconductor 
expects to start shipping 
samples of its new 16032 
16-bit chip set, which prom- 
ises features similar to the 
DEC (Digital Equipment Cor- 
poration) 32-bit VAX ma- 
chines. The silicon area on 
this device (250 by 300 mils) 
is even larger than 
Motorola's 68000. Industry 
observers concede that this 
set of devices is significantly 
more powerful than the 
68000, the Z8000, or the 
8086. However, many obser- 
vers doubt whether National 
will be able to compete with 
Intel, Zilog, and Motorola, 
because of its late start and 
the great expense of such a 
project. 



■Soviets Develop 

8080A-Llke Micropro- 
cessor: According to a 
technical report released by 
CDC (Control Data Corpora- 
tion), the Soviet Union is 
manufacturing a micropro- 
cessor that is very similar to 
Intel's 8080A design. Control 
Data obtained samples of 
the integrated circuit from 
the Hungarian government, 
and promptly dissected it. 
They discovered that the 
device, called the 
K80IK8077, uses the same 
circuit blocks as the 8080A, 
except that it is adapted for 
the NMOS (n-channel metal- 
oxide semiconductor) pro- 
cess. 

In the manufacturing pro- 
cess, Soviet technicians 
relaxed line widths and 
geometry separations and 
used a larger chip size (214 
by 192 mils, compared to 
193 by 171 mils for Intel, 
which Intel later reduced to 
165 by 161 mils). The Soviet 
design is thus more conser- 



vative and more expensive 
to produce. CDC identified 
several "workmanship 
flaws" in the devices (eg: 
questionable die attach- 
ments and scraping of bond 
wires). CDC felt that the 
Soviet technology was equal 
to American technology, 
vintage 1977. The device 
uses a 48-pin package with 
eight unused pins. 



H 



ome-Banklng/ 
Information System 
Inaugurated: Radio 
Shack, CompuServe, and 
United American Service 
Corporation have joined 
forces to inaugurate a na- 
tionwide home-banking and 
information system. (See 
"You Can Bank on It," 
January 1981 BYTE, page 
10.) Using the new TRS-80 
Color Computer, a television 
receiver, and a modem, a 
subscriber will be able to 
pay bills, obtain a bank 
statement, do bookkeeping, 
apply for a loan, send and 
receive electronic mail, and 
access the CompuServe data 
base. The service will cost 
between $15 and $25 a 
month. United American ex- 
pects to have forty banks 
and 20,000 subscribers in the 
system by the end of the 
year. 



■digital Research To 
Introduce Record-Re- 
trieval System: Digital 
Research (DR) will soon in- 
troduce a record-keeping 
software package called 
BT-80. Basically, it is the 
kernel for a data-base man- 
agement system. DR has 
also indicated that it is 
"taking a hard look at 
possibly implementing 
CP/M, MP/M, and PL/I on 
68000 and Z8000 systems." 
Further, they have pur- 
chased a Digital Equipment 
Corporation VAX machine. 
Although this machine is 
primarily intended to keep 
track of their internal opera- 
tions, it will be using the 
UNIX operating system. 
Does this mean that DR 
might be taking a close look 



at UNIX? After all, several 
DR staffers have strong 
UNIX backgrounds. 

Digital Research has also 
disclosed that it is consider- 
ing the possibility of devel- 
oping a software interface 
between CP/NET and the 
EtherNet systems. 



I he Microprocessor 
Catch-22: Intel is currently 
the only supplier of the 8088 
microprocessor (which is ac- 
tually a 16-bit 8086 with 8-bit 
input and output). Most 
designers tend to avoid a 
part that is not "second- 
sourced." In other words, 
they want to be able to get 
the part from another source 
if their primary source has 
delivery problems. Mostek 
has said that it is interested 
in second-sourcing the 8088 
if demand warrants. My 
question is, how is the de- 
mand to materialize while 
waiting for a second-source 
to enter the marketplace? 



R 



andom Bits And 
Random Rumors: The 

EtherNet's specifications 
have been finalized and 
published. If you would like 
a copy, contactthe EtherNet 
Literature department at 
either Xerox, Intel, or Digital 
Equipment Corporation.... 
NEC is about to introduce a 
low-cost version of its Spin- 
writer word-processing 
printer. This new machine 
will sell for $1400 (in lots of 
100) and it will also be used 
with a new NEC microcom- 
puter system rumored for in- 
troduction later this year.... 
It is being whispered that Ep- 
son America Inc, Torrance, 
California, will soon unveil a 
low-cost daisy-wheel 
printer... Ontrax Corpora- 
tion, Sunnyvale, California, 
plans to introduce a 
116-megabyte 8-inch Win- 
chester disk drive soon.... 
Before long, General Instru- 
ment will place on the 
market a speech-synthesis 
chip set in the $5 price range 
for large volumes. The set 
will include the controller, 
32 K bytes or 128 K bytes of 
ROM and speech modules. ... 



214 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



DG: Realizing the H8's Potential 

For the Engineer; Businessman; and Serious Hobbyist. 



NEW! DG-64D5 Now Available 

Uses Single 5 Volt Supply DYNAMIC RAMS. 
Like our DG-64D, asynchronous refresh 
maintains memory contents during extended 
wait states. Call for additional information. 

Powerful, Bank Selectable 
64K RAM 

Our high capacity, low power DG-64D 64K 
RAM allows more efficient utilization of space, 
freeing your motherboard for peripheral 
interfacing. 

Now 4MHz Operation 

The DG-ADP4 allows for operation of the 
DG-80 CPU at 4MHz while maintaining 
compatibility with the H1 7 Disk System. 
Execution time of CPU intensive programs is 
reduced to half even before utilizing the 
enhanced Z80 instruction set. 



Now Use Standard CP/M® 
Software 

DG's system enhancements provide for RAM 
in Low Memory allowing the use of the widely 
accepted STANDARD CP/M. 

Now Operation in Powerful 
Z80®Code 

Our DG-80 Z80 R based CPU opens a new 
world of more powerful AND efficient 
languages and software. 

Increased Flexibility With New 
Monitor 

DG's FP8 monitor allows front panel debugging 
of 8080 AND Z80 machine language programs 
in either hexadecimal or octal format. Maintains 
all PAM-8 R entry points ancTfeatu res. All 
register sets available. 



The DG system enhancements for the Heath H8 computer are definitely a 
step above in price, performance, and factory support. 



THE DG-80 ZILOG Z80®BASED CPU — $249.00 (Documentation Only $25.00) 



FEATURES: 

• Compatible with Heath* H8 hardware and software 

• Z80CPU — Enhanced instruction set • Provisions for 
up to 8KR0M/EPR0M and/or 4K RAM • Jump-On-Re- 
set to any 1K boundary • DIP switch selectable wait 



states for any or all 8K blocks of memory • All Z80 
interrupt response modes available • Interrupt Acknow- 
ledge and Dynamic Memory Refresh signals available on 
bus • Frequently selected options by DIP switch or sol- 
derless jumper • Machined contact gold sockets for 



R0M/EPR0M. RAM • Includes many advanced features 
for future expansion • Assembled, tested and guaran- 
teed • Extensive operations manual and Z80 PROGRAM- 
MING MANUAL 

90 DAY WARRANTY 



DG-64D 
BEST RAM EVER 
AVAILABLE FOR 

THE H8. 



NEW! 5 VOLT ONLY VERSION 64K RAM — DG-64D5 

Uses Single Supply 5 Volt Dynamic RAMS. Call for further information. 
FEATURES: 



• Up to 64K bytes capacity Dynamic RAM 

• Hardware bank selectable in 8K incre- 
ments • Software bank selectable in 16K 
increments through I/O port • On-board 
bank select/CPU ROM disable port, address- 



able to any of 256 I/O addresses • Up to 8 
boards controllable through one I/O port 
(allows page mode operation) • On-board 
transparent refresh for 8080 or Z80 
microprocessor backed up by asynchronous 



refresh which maintains memory contents 
during extended wait states • 4 MHz opera- 
tion with no wait states required • Low 
power consumption — less than 8 watts 
• Assembled, tested, & burned-in • 90 
DAY WARRANTY • 64K-S529.00; 48K- 
$480.00; 32K-S431.00; 16K-S382.00; 
0K-S333.OO; Documentation 0nly-$15.00 



DG-FP8 — $69.95 



Monitor/Utility package for DG-80 CPU provides 
functions of PAM-8 as well as the following: 



• Split Octal or Hexidecimal Entry and Dis- 
play • Z80 monitor features such as dis- 
play alternate register sets, display index 
registers, • "Shorthand" display of mem- 
ory contents pointed to by general purpose 
Documentation Only - $15.00 (Source Listing Not Included) 



registers • Supports STANDARD CP/M 
provided by D-G as well as HDOS • Pro- 
vides firmware support for DG-ADP4, 4 MHz 
hardware • Includes single step features 



DG-ADP4 — $19.95 



Plug-in hardware modification to allow operation of the Heath" H17 disk system with the 
DG-80at4 MHz. Requires the use of the DG-FP8 firmware package. 



16K CHIP SETS $49.00 

(8-4116 Type Dynamic RAMS) for DG- 32O.0G-64O,Apple".TRS-80" 
H88/89".andPef 



DG-CMD1 — $29.95 



ROM disable port for use with the 
Heath* H8 computer. Addressable to 
any of 256 I/O ports. Allows the use of a 
full 64K of RAM when used in conjunc- 



tion with the DG-80 CPU and the DG-FP8 
hardware/firmware package (NOT RE- 
QUI RED FOR SYSTEMS UTILIZING THE 
DG-64D MEMORY BOARD) 



DG-FP8/DG-ADP4 - TOGETHER - $79.95 

Save on Combination Purchase — Reg. $89.90 



DG-32D — 32K — $339.00 — 16K — $287.00 
— tfK — $235.00 -DOCUMENTATION $12.00 



STANDARD CP/M Ver 2.2 $130.00 



CP/M is a registered trademark of Digital Research of Pacific Grove. California. Heath. HDOS. H 8, H88/89 & PAM8 are registered trademarks ofthe Heath Company, Z80isa registered trademark of Zilog 
Corp. PET is a registered trademark of Commodore. Apple is a registered trademark of Apple Computer TRS-80 is a registered trademark of TANDY Corp, 



n-B 



Ordering Information: Products listed available from DG Electronic 
Developments Co., P.O. Box 1124, 1827 South Armstron, Denison, Tx. 
75020. Check, Money Order, VISA or Master Charge accepted Phone 
orders (charge only) call (214) 465-7805. No COO's. Freight prepaid. 
Allow 3 weeks for personal checks to clear. Texas residents add 5%. 
Foreign orders add 30%. Prices subject to change without notice. 



Circle 147 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



215 



BYTELINES __ 

Hewlett-Packard is about to 
set forth a single-board 
microprocessor version of its 
1000-L computer to compete 
with the Digital Equipment 
Corporation LSI-11.... Con- 
trol Data plans to introduce 
a self-contained PLATO sys- 
tem. The PLATO system is 
currently a mainframe-based 
system that includes remote 
terminals with high-resolu- 
tion graphics and an exten- 
sive library of interactive 
educational software... 
Shugart Associates, the cur- 
rent leader in floppy-disk 
drives, is rumored to be de- 
veloping an optical disk- 
storage system. The basic 
technology for this system 
was developed by Shugart's 
parent organization, Xerox, 
and Thompson-CSF..., 



■ Irst Xenlx/Z8001 
System Announced: Tri- 

Data Systems, City of In- 
dustry, California, is the first 
company to announce a 
microcomputer system using 
the Zilog Z8001 and Micro- 
soft's Xenix operating sys- 
tem. The Z8001 employs 
segmented rather than direct 
addressing. This desk-top 
system, called the SST, con- 
tains a Z8010 memory-man- 
agement integrated circuit 
that dynamically relocates 



code and protects memory 
areas. The SST utilizes a ten- 
slot motherboard for mem- 
ory expansion in 128K-byte 
modules. 



w, 



III Microcomputers 
Leapfrog Over Minicom- 
puters and Mainframes? 

The newer 16- and 32-bit 
microprocessors, soon to be 
sampled by integrated- 
circuit manufacturers, will 
contain some new and 
sophisticated features. For 
example, the forthcoming 
NS16000' 16-bit micropro- 
cessor from National Semi- 
conductor and the iAPX-432 
microcomputer from Intel 
will both have true virtual 
memory capability that will 
allow very large memory 
systems. Sixteen-bit micro- 
computers like the 8086, 
Z8000, and 68000 do not 
lend themselves to virtual 
memory systems. Intel, how- 
ever, says that it expects to 
have an 8086 with virtual 
memory later this year. 

Virtual memory requires 
the microprocessor to stop 
in the middle of an instruc- 
tion if it determines that the 
address called is not in mem- 
ory, back up execution of 
the instruction, and restart 
the instruction after the con- 
tents of that virtual address 
have been brought in from a 



mass-storage device (eg: a 
hard disk). 

Returning to the original 
question, experts concede 
that, simply because micro- 
computers now have fea- 
tures once found only in 
larger machines, it does not 
follow that they will over- 
take minicomputers and 
maxicomputers. Each year 
the minicomputers and 
maxicomputers add perfor- 
mance features that keep 
their power far ahead of 
microcomputers. In fact, the 
new more powerful micro- 
computers now have fea- 
tures that were found in 
larger systems five or more 
years ago. 



R, 



,obot Kit An- 
nounced: In the December 
1979 BYTE News, I predicted 
that a robot kit would be in- 
troduced in 1980. It now 
seems as if that prediction 
will come true in 1982. 
Heath Company recently de- 
monstrated a 3-foot-high 
robot prototype to Heath 
retailers that it plans to in- 
troduce in 1982. The robot 
kit will use the Motorola 
6802 microprocessor with 
4 K bytes of programmable 
memory and 32 K bytes of 
ROM (read-only memory). It 
will have a detachable 



joystick, voice synthesis, 
and one multipurpose arm. 
At this time, it is projected 
that the kit will cost less 
than $1000. 



Whange Of Name: 

Seagate Technology is the 
new name for Shugart Tech- 
nology. Seagate Technology 
is the Scotts Valley, Califor- 
nia, firm that manufactures 
Winchester-technology 
5'/ -inch hard-disk drives. 
The decision to change its 
name was made by Seagate 
Technology to help 
distinguish it from the 
famous maker of floppy-disk 
drives, Shugart Associates. 
Both companies were found- 
ed by David Shugart. How- 
ever, Mr Shugart is no longer 
affiliated with Shugart 
Associates. 



MAIL: I receive a large 
number of letters each month 
as a result of this column. If you 
wish a response, please include 
a stamped, self-addressed 
envelope. 

Sol Libes 
POB 1 992 
Mountainside NJ 07092 



LET YOUR APPLE SEE THE WORLD! 



The DS-65 Diglsector" is a random access video digitizer 
which converts a TV camera's output Into digital Infor- 
mation the Apple can process. It features 256 X 256 
resolution with up to 64 levels of grey scale 
Scanning sequences are user programmable. 
On-board software in EPROM is provided for 
displaying digitized Images on the Hi-Res 
screen. 

Use the DS-65 for: Precision Security Systems 
• Computer Portraiture • Robotics • Fast to 
Slow Scan Conversion • Moving Target Indi- 
cators • Reading UPC codes, schematics, musi 
cal scores and paper tape • 




TH ft&D®D^§> 



DS-65 Price: $349.95 
FSII Camera Price: $299.00 
Combination Price: $599.00 



NEW SOFTWARE FOR THE DS-65 IS NOW AVAILABLE 
ON DISK! 



— Portrait System Software:This program includes 
captions and a credit line, reverse printing for 
T-shirt application and the option to save por- 
traits on disk. 

— Picture Scanner: Provides a variety of differ- 
ent dithering algorythms for compressing the 
digitized Image into the Hi-Res screen. 

Write or call for more Information! 



GIVE YOUR APPLE THE GIFT OF SIGHT! 

Master Charge / Visa Accepted 



M® [SUSS 3 RO. BOX 111 DEL MAR, CA 9201 4 71 4-942-2400 



216 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 148 on inquiry card. 



This 

printer 

costs less 

than $450. 

Beat that... 

if you can. 




Epson 



This is the Epson MX-70. The lowest priced dot 
matrix printer you can buy. Now, that in itself 
should make it very attractive to a lot of people. 
But you ain't heard the half of it. 

To begin with, the MX-70 has a lot more in 
common with our now-famous MX-80 than just 
the name. Like unequalled Epson reliability. 
And technological breakthroughs like the 
world's first disposable print head. But frankly, 
the MX-80 packs a lot more power than some 
people need. So we built the 
MX-70 to be a no-frills print- 
er. At a no-frills price. 

But the MX-70 is still a great 
little printer. We give you 
80CPS unidirectional print- 
ing. Top-of-form recognition. 
Programmable line feed and 
form lengths. Plain paper 
printing. An easy-to-read 5x7 
matrix. Self test. And an 
adjustable tractor feed. 

That's what you'd expect 




from a basic little printer. But here's something 
you wouldn't expect: the finest graphics package 
on the market today. Free. 

We call it GRAFTR AX II. And it means 480 dots 
across the page, resolution to 60 dots per inch, 
and a graphic image free of the jitter and overlap 
that plagues other printers. You get cleaner grays 
and finer point resolution. 

So now you've got a choice. You want more 
power and extra functions, you buy the MX-80. 
You want a basic little printer 
that prints, and keeps on 
printing, you buy the MX-70. 
They're both at your dealer 
now. 

But at this price, you'd bet- 
ter hurry. 

EPSON 

EPSON AMERICA, INC. 



23844 Hawthorne Boulevard • Torrance, California 90505- (213) 378-2220 



Circle 149 on Inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



217 



H 



CQMPuTTRQNICS 



N 
C. 



... EVERY THING FOR YOUR TRS-80 ••• 



* TRS-80" is a trademark of the Radio Shack Division of Tandy Corporation 



****** >*-*** 

MOD-II PROGRAMS 



* All orders processed within 24-Hours 
•k 30-Day money back guarantee on all TRSDOS Software 
•k Add $2.00 for shipping in UPS Areas 
• Add $3.00 for C.O.D. or NON-UPS Areas 
• Add $4.00 outside U.S.A., Canada & Mexico 
•k We will match any bonafide advertised price 
in any of the Major Computer Magazines 



A 

L 
L 

S 


F 
T 
W 
A 
R 
E 



LISTED 
HERE 

"w 
o 

R 
K 
S 

W 
I 

T 
H 

T 
R 
S 
D 

S* 



(1) ELECTRIC PENCIL (Michael Shrayer Software)... 
Complete word processor with extensive editing and 

printer tormatting features $325 (STANDARD 

TRSDOS VERSION). ..$350 (DIABLO, NEC OR QUME 
TRSDOS VERSION). 

(2) GENERAL LEDGER, ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, 
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE, INVENTORY CONTROL, 
INVOICING AND PAYROLL (Small BusinessSystems 
Group) ...an extensive businesssystem for the serious 
user.. .can be used one module at a time or as a co- 
ordinated system. ..$225. per module. ..$1299 for the 
complete system. 

(3) GENERAL LEDGER, ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, 
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE, INVENTORY CONTROL 
AND PAYROLL (Compumax) ...a complete user ori- 
ented business system ...can be used one module at a 
time or as a coordinated system... $140 per module... 
$995 for the complete system. 

(4) MOD-II UTILITY PACKAGE (Racet Computes)... 
adds important utilities to TRSDOS. ..copy files 
selectively... faster and more accurate file copying... 
repair bad directories.. .displays sorted directory of 
all files on 1 to 4 disk drives... SUPERZAP... change 
disk IO...and more... $150. 

(5) ADVENTURE #1-#9 (Scott Adams - Adventure 
International). ..a series of games formally only 
available on the large computers... your goal is to work 
your way through a maze of obstacles in order to 
recover a secret treasure or complete a mission.. .the 
package includes all 9 Adventures written by Scott 
Adams.. $99.95. 

(6) GSF (Racet Computers). ..Generalized Subroutine 
Facility...a series of super fast machine language 
utilities that can be called from a BASIC program (no 
machine language knowledge required). ..sorts 1000 
items in under 5 seconds. ..allows PEEK and POKE 
statements.. .move data blocks.. .compress and un- 
compress data., works under TRSDOS.. $50. 

(7) DSM (Racet Computes) ... Disk Sort Merge ..sorts 
and merges large multiple diskette files on a 1 to 4 
drive system...NOT AN IN MEMORY SORT ...can 
actually alphabetize (or any other type of sort) 4 disk 
drives worth of data., sorts one complete disk of 
information in 10 minutes...information is provided to 
use DSM with the RS MAILING PROGRAM ...works 
under TRSDOS...$150. 

(8) RSM (Small Systems Software) ...a machine 
language monitor and disassembler.. .can be used to 
see and modify memory or disk sectors. ..contains all 
the commands found on the Model-I version plus 
some additional commands for the MOD-II. ..works 
under TRSDOS...$39.95. 

(9) BLINK BASIC LINK FACILITY (Racet Computes).. 
Link from one BASIC program to another saving all 
variables.. .chain programs without losing variables 
...$50. 

(10) BASIC CROSS REFERENCE UTILITY (Racet 
Computes)., lists all variables and strings used in a 
program (with the line numbers in which they appear) 
...lists all GOTO's and GOSUB's (with the line num- 
bers in which they appear) ..searches for any specific 
variables or strings (with the line number in which 
they appear) ..$50 

(1 1) DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE (Racet Computes)... 
SUPERZAP (to see, print or change any byte on a 
diskette)... Disassembler and MOD-II interface to the 



MICROSOFT EDITOR ASSEMBLER PLUS including 
uploading services and patches for Disk I/O. .assemble 
directly into memory.. .save all or portions of source 
to disk., dynamic debug facility (ZBUG)...entended 
editor commands.. .$125. 

(12) HARD/SOFT DISK SYSTEM (Racet Computes)... 
The software essential to inte face any of the popular 
large hard disk drives... completely compatible with 
your existing software and files.. .allows up to 20 
megabytes ofstorage (and larger). ..directory expand- 
able to handle thousands of files ...$400. 

(13) CAMEO HARD DISK DRIVE CONTROLLER 
coming soon (November 1?) 

(14) HARD DISK DRIVES...coming soon (Nov. 1?). 

(15) HIE COMPUTRONICS, INC. SHARE-A- 
PROGRAM DISKETTE #1...works under TRSDOS...a 
collection of programs written by MOD-II owners. . 
programs include data base management... a word 
processor. mail system ...mortgage calculations... 
checkbook register.. .and many others. ..$8 (add $3 
postage outside of the United States, Canada and 
Mexico). ..FREE if you send us a diskette containing 
a program that can be added to the SHARE-A-PRO- 
GRAM DISKETTE. 

(16) WABASH CERTIFIED DISKETTES ..$39.95 (per 
box of 10). 

(17) FLIP SORT DISKETTE STORAGE TRAY ..Stores 
50 diskettes, .comes complete with index-dividers, tilt 
plates and adjustable spacing.. .$44.95. 

(18) MASTER PAC 100... 100 essential programs. . 
BUSINESS.. .PERSONAL FINANCE ..STATISTICS... 
MATH...GAMBLING...GAMES... includes 125 page 
manual and 2 diskettes. ..$99.95. 

(19) BUSINESS PAC 100... 100 essential business 
programs... INVENTORY CONTROL. PAYROLL- 
BOOKKEEPING SYSTEM...STOCK CALCULA- 
TIONS... CHECKBOOK MAINTENANCE. ..AC- 
COUNTS RECEIVABLE-ACCOUNTS PAYABLE... 
includes 125 page manualancltwodiskettes... $149.95. 

(20) EDITOR ASSEMBLER (Galactic Software Ltd.).., 
the first user oriented Editor Assembler for the 
MODEL II and was designed to utilize all the features 
of the MODEL II It includes innovative features for 
ease of coding and debugging and complete docu- 
mentation (over 120 pages) ...works under TRSDOS 
...$229.00. 

(21) BASIC COMPILER (Microsoft)... changes your 
source programs into machine language ...increases 
program execution by 3-10 times.. .$395. 

(22) MAIL/FILE SYSTEM from Galactic Software Ltd. 
stores 2,500 names per disk. No sorting time is 
required since the file is automatically sorted by first 
and last name plus Zip Code on input. Retrieve byany 
combination of 19 user codes Supports an 11 digit 
alphanumerica Zip. Supports a message line. Comes 
complete with user-oriented documentation (100- 
page manual). Allows for company name and individ- 
ual of a company and complete phone number (and 
extension), works under TRSDOS. .$199.00 

(23) INCOME TAX PAC... Professional income tax 
package... most forms and schedules ..output to video 
or line printer.. automatic memory storage of all 
information. ..data can be loaded from diskette, 
changed and edited ...built in error checking . $199.95. 

(24) COMPUTER GAMES (SBSG)...Mean Checker 
Machine, Star-Trek III, Concentration, Treasure Hunt. 
Banco, Dog Star Adventure. ..$74. 95. 



ICQMPJTRQNICS! 

50 N. PASCACK ROAD 
SPRING VALLEY, NEW YORK 10977 



r ^m\ _ _ hour 

\S8*i24 ORDER 
\-~~~^~" LINE 

(914) 425-1535 

218 BYTE February 1981 



NEW TOLL-FREE 

ORDER LINE 

(OUTSIDE OF N.Y. STATE) 

(800) 431-2818 



[ 




(1) CP/M (Lifeboat Associates) an alternative 

operating system for the MOD-II that allows MOD-II 
owners to use any of the hundreds of programs 
available under CP/M. ..$170. 

(2) CP/M HANDBOOK (Sybex) a step-by-step 
guide to CP/M... takes the reader through each of the 
CP/M commands...numberous sample programs... 
practical hints. reference tables.. .$13.95. 

(3) GENERAL LEDGER, ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, 
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE, INVENTORY CONTROL, 

AND PAYROLL (Peachtree Software)., requires CP/M 
and MICROSOFT BASIC. ..professional business 
systems. ..turn key operation ...can be used as single 
modules or as a coordinated system.. .$500 per 
module. ..$2500 for the complete system. 

(4) WORD-STAR... The ultimate word processor ..a 
menu driven word processing system that can be used 
with any printer. All standard word processing 
commands are included ...plus many unique com- 
mands only found on WORD STAR. ..requires CP/M 
...$495. 

(5) MAIL LIST MERGE ...An add on package that 
allows the user to send form letters (created on 

I WORD-STAR) to any compiled mailing list (using any 
CP/M based MAIL program such as the PEACHTREE 
MAIL PROGRAM).. requiresCP/M, WORDSTAR and 
andy CP/M based mail program. ..$150 

(6) SELECTOR 111 (Micro-Ap) ...complete data 
management system. ..userdefined fields and codes... 
manages any list defined by the user., includes 
additional modules for simplified inventory control, 
accounts receivable and accounts payable. ..requires 

I CBASIC-2...S295. 

(7) SELECTOR IV (Micro-Ap)...the ultimate data 
management system. ..all features use the SELECTOR 
III plus.. .data file format conversions., full page report 
formatter.. . computations. .global search and replace 
...hard disk compatible., data/text merging.. .$550 

(8) GLECTOR (Micro-Ap).. add on package to the 
SELECTOR., general ledger that allows the user to 
define a customized chart of accounts . $350. 

(9) C8ASIC-2 a non-intesactive BASIC used for 
many programs that run under CP/M... allows user to 
make more efficient use of disk files... eliminates the 
use of most line number references.. .require on such 
programs as the SELECTOR.. .$120, 

(10) MICROSOFT BASIC. ..an enhanced version of the 
MICROSOFT BASIC found on TRSDOS ...adds 
commands such as chaining (allows the user to LOAD 
and RUN a new program without losing the variables 
currently in memory), .long variable length file 
records. WHILE/WEND and others... can be used with 
the BASIC COMPILER to speed up programs (3-10 
times faster execution). ..$325. 

(11) MASTER TAX (CPAids) ...professional tax 
preparation program., prepares schedules, A. B. C. D, 
E, F, G, R/RP. SE. TC. ES and forms 2106. 2119. 2210. 
3468, 3903. 2441. 4625, 4726. 4797. 4972. 5695 and 
6521. Printing can be on readily available pre-printed 
continuous forms, on overlays, or on computer 
generated IRS approved forms. Maintains dint history 
files.. .interactive with CP/Aic!s General Ledger... $995. 

(12) GENERAL LEDGER II (CP Aids) ...designed for 
CPA's... stores complete 12 month detailed history of 
transactions. ..generates financial statements, 
depreciation, loan amortizations, journals, trial 
balances, statements of changes in financial position, 
and compilation letters.. .includes payroll systemwith 
automating posting to general ledgers. ..prints 
payroll register, W2"s and payroll checks. .$450. 

(13) ELECTRIC PENCIL (Michael Shrayer Software) 
...Complete word processor with extensive editing 
and printer formatting features.. .$275 (Standard 
printer version)...$300 (DIABLO. NEC or QUME 
version). 

(14) BASIC COMPILER (Microsoft) .changes your 
source programs into machine language. ..increases 
program execution by 3-10 times. ..5395. 



(CP/M IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK 
OF DIGITAL RESEARCH) 



A 

L 
L 

P 
R 
O 
G 
R 
A 
M 
S 



R 

E 

Q 

U 

I 

R 

E 

C 
P 

/ 
M* 



NEW!!! 

MOD-II NEWSLETTER 
$H/year Cor VX issues) 



Circle 150 on inquiry card. 



THE ORIGINAL MAGAZINE FOR 
OWNERS OF THE TRS-80 ™* MICROCOMPUTER 



SOFTWARE 

FOR TRS-80'" 

OWNERS 



H 



CQMPJTRQMCS 



I 

N 
C. 



MONTHLY 

NEWSMAGAZINE 

FOR TRS-80 " 

OWNERS 



MONTHLY NEWSMAGAZINE 

Practical Support For Model I, II & III 



PRACTICAL APPLICATIONS 
BUSINESS 

GAMBLING • GAMES 
EDUCATION 
PERSONAL FINANCE 
BEGINNER'S CORNER 
NEW PRODUCTS 
SOFTWARE EXCHANGE 
MARKET PLACE 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS 
PROGRAM PRINTOUTS 
AND MORE 



FREE* 



PROGRAMS AND ARTICLES PUBLISHED IN OUR FIRST 12 ISSUES 
INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING: 

A COMPLETE INCOME TAX PROGRAM (LONG AND SHORT FORM) 

INVENTORY CONTROL 

STOCK MARKET ANALYSIS 

WORD PROCESSING PROGRAM (FOR DISK OR CASSETTE) 

LOWER CASE MODIFICATION FOR YOUR VIDEO MONITOR OR PRINTER 

PAYROLL (FEDERAL TAX WITHHOLDING PROGRAM) 

EXTEND 16 DIGIT ACCURACY TO TRS-80'" FUNCTIONS (SUCH AS 

SQUARE ROOTS AND TRIGONOMETRIC FUNCTIONS) 

NEW DISK DRIVES FOR YOUR TRS-80'" 

PRINTER OPTIONS AVAILABLE FOR YOUR TRS-80'" 

A HORSE SELECTION SYSTEM***ARITHMETIC TEACHER 

COMPLETE MAILING LIST PROGRAMS [BOTH FOR DISK OR CASSETTE 

SEQUENTIAL AND RANDOM ACCESS) 

RANDOM SAMPLING***BAR GRAPH 

CHECKBOOK MAINTENANCE PROGRAM 

LEVEL II UPDATES***LEVEL II INDEX 

CREDIT CARD INFORMATION STORAGE FILE 

BEGINNER'S GUIDE TO MACHINE LANGUAGE AND ASSEMBLY 

LANGUAGE 

LINE RENUMBERING 

AND CASSETTE TIPS. PROGRAM HINTS. LATEST PRODUCTS 

COMING SOON (GENERAL LEDGER. ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND 

RECEIVABLE. FORTRAN 80. FINANCIAL APPLICATIONS PACKAGE. 

PROGRAMS FOR HOMEOWNERS. MERGE TWO PROGRAMS. 

STATISTICAL AND MATHEMATICAL PROGRAMS (BOTH 

ELEMENTARY AND ADVANCED) . . AND 



Or 



' IKS, si)" IS A rWAI'KMAKI- 
WORD PROCESSING PROGRAM For writing letters, text, mailing lists, etc.. with each new subscriptions or renewal 
LEVEL II RAM TEST Checks random access memory to ensure that all memory locations are working properly 
DATA MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Complete file management for your TRS-80'". 
CLEANUP Fast action Maze Game. 

ADVENTURE Adventure #0 by Scott Adams (From Adventureland International). 
* All programs are supplied on cassette (add $3 for Diskette Version - add $5 for modified Mod-II Version). 



1)1 I AM IV I OKI' 



**££ 



SEND FOR OUR NEW 48 PAGE SOFTWARE CATALOG (INCLUDING LISTINGS OF HUNDREDS OF TRS-80'" PROGRAMS AVAILABLE ON 
CASSETTE AND DISKETTE). $2.00 OR FREE WITH EACH SUBSCRIPTIONS OR SAMPLE ISSUE. 



CQMPUTRQNICS 



50 N. PASCACK ROAD 
SPRING VALLEY, NEW YORK 10977 

ONE YEAR SUBSCRIPTION $24 
TWO YEAR SUBSCRIPTION $48 
SAMPLE OF LATEST ISSUE $4 



HOUR 

ORDER 

LINE 



(914) 425-1535 




NEW TOLL-FREE 

ORDER LINE 

(OUTSIDE OF N.Y. STATE) 

(800) 431-2818 



START MY SUBSCRIPTION WITH ISSUE 

(»1 - July 1978 • S7 - January 1979 • 812 - June 1979 < 
NEW SUBSCRIPTION RENEWAL 



#18 - January 1980) 



CREDIT CARD NUMBER- 

SIGNATURE 

NAME 



EXP. DATE, 



ADDRESS . 



-CITY- 



STATE. 



-ZIP- 



ADD $6 YEAR (CANADA. MEXICO) . ADD $12 YEAR AIR MAIL ■ OUTSIDE OF USA. CANADA & MEXICO *" 



Circle 150 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 219 



Image Processing 
With a Printer 



Clark A Calkins 
2564 Walnut Blvd #106 
Walnut Creek CA 94598 



For a long time I have been inter- 
ested in producing recognizable im- 
ages using a basic Teletype just as you 
see in many computer stores; and I 
thought that an expensive camera and 
interface were required to digitize the 
picture. But in 1979 an article in Dr 
Dobb's Journal described just how to 
do this type of image processing with 
a Diablo printer. (See reference 1.) 
While I didn't have this type of 
printer, I figured the concept should 
work with my Model 43 Teletype or 
any other printer. After all, the hard- 
ware interface required looked simple 
enough. What could I lose? I worked 
out my ideas, implemented the 
system, and now I can process images 
inexpensively at home. So as a suc- 
cessful personal-computer experi- 
menter, I'll pass on my experience to 
you. 

An Overview of the System 

The principle behind this image 
processing system is easy to under- 
stand and implement in a home com- 
puter system. The procedure used to 



About the Author 

Clark A Calkins has worked for 11 years 
with the General Electric Company at the 
Vallecitos Nuclear Research Center and now 
holds a position as a systems programmer for 
the Advanced Nuclear Applications Group. 



prepare a digital picture contains the 
following steps: 

• Connect a light-sensitive device 
(such as a phototransistor) to the in- 
put of an A/D (analog-to-digital) 
converter that is connected to the 
computer. 

• Mount the phototransistor on the 
print head of the printer so that it 
senses light reflected off the paper in 
the printer's print position. 

• Place the paper containing the 
image in the printer so the print head 
will traverse the image; then send a 
series of space characters to the 
printer to cause the print head to 
move across the paper. 

• Measure and store the values of 
light intensity at each character posi- 
tion under program control, using 
A/D-converter output. 

• Insert a blank sheet of paper into 
the printer. 

• Use a computer program to print 
selected characters onto the blank 
sheet; each character corresponds to 
the light intensity at a given print 
position. The higher the intensity, the 
lighter the character should be. 

Having decided that this would be 
an interesting project, I went to the 
local electronics store and purchased 
the necessary parts and assembled the 
unit. When I loaded in a sample con- 
trol program written in BASIC, the 



thing actually worked, and after a lit- 
tle experimentation, I could even 
recognize some features! Then the fun 
started, I cut pictures from the maga- 
zines lying around the house and 
started to process them while trying 
different substitution characters. This 
was great fun for my entire family! 

After a few hours of playing with 
this system, I started to realize that I 
needed a better control program that 
would execute faster. The BASIC 
program worked at about three char- 
acters per second, but with a faster 
program, I could try larger pictures. 
The basic functions required were: 

• Scan over a variable-width image 
of any reasonable length at a much 
faster speed. 

• Save the resulting digital data out 
on a disk file for later use. 

• Be able to use a user-defined char- 
acter-substitution sequence (the more 
flexible, the better). 

The results of this effort are shown 
in listing 1. Here is a control program 
written for the CP/M (version 1.4) 
operating system that does what is re- 
quired (and a little more). It can scan 
a line of up to 255 characters and as 
many as 255 lines (memory permit- 
ting). The character-substitution se- 
quence is limited to sixty-four char- 



220 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



o ro v j m 



U M M M 



i— i i— i ro ro ro oj ro o oo r*B : 



c*jc*ji— 'roHHt— trorjrororowo 



»— 1»— iWMfoww^OD* 



ro i— i ro ro ro 



coji-Ht— i w i- i ro ro ro i-h 



u u u 

ro o ■**»■ 

u u z 

04 V* SB 

OJ CO 4* 



2! Mh 
Z U M 

z ro h 



1— 1 ro ro 
ro ro ro 



wio\jMW\iHWHro 
wrosjHMHWWHWfo 

u u h # h m >- 1 f-i ro f » 0*1 _ 
roroi— i+r +ri— tNjxjrororoWM 

ron# \i \i \j 1- • .— » t— < ro oj ■»* 

■nj »— 1 »-H o at 

nj 1— 1 ro o a» 

1— * »-< i-h ro 00 a* 

h m ro z a 

H H H o it * 

■— * ro ro oj m m 

M \J H M 4^ « • 

•-. _ ►_ 1 00 «i a« 

NJ H N} CD « « 
+ + +r +r i^NJ\JMtt»« 

* + + NJ\JttMMWM»« 

* * +r + # s JMHO*«« 
+ + + +r *- Nj 1— . .— 1 U « « » 

*•■ + + *\j+r»-trooa»«»ar» 

-4- +fr # 4- #H\JhCO««* 

+ + + ■* #NWWCO»»« 

+r * + <t-NNrouz««« 

+ + + + #HHM*««« 

+ — . —- -w -H-xjroow**** 

* ■+■ ■+- +NJHHU*««« 



ro ro ro 
ro ro ro 



OWN) 

** ro i-i 



ro i-h 

n-i ro 

•-• nj 

1— 1 ro 

NJ l-l 

1— 1 *—* 

1— 1 ro 

NJ f-t 

ro 1— t 



■VI 


+ 


NJ 


"■J 


NJ 


-0 


+r 


+r 


NJ 


NJ 


+f 


■M- 


NJ 


•M- 


t— 1 


•VI 


+ 


-O 


1— 1 


NJ 


w 


VI 


w 


NJ 


1— 4 


+ 


+r 


NJ 


NJ 


1 — 1 


*r 


+ 


+r 


1— 1 


NJ 


+ 


+f 


+r 


* 


»— 1 


■M- 


+ 


"VJ 


NJ 


NJ 



ro w m ro 



ro ro 
Nl ro 
ro 1-1 
Nl ro 
Nl ro 
vj t-t 

* ro 
i-i 1— 1 

vj l-l 

* ro 



■ ••^UHHMNJ 



• * 00 •• h a 
r» m go w a* ►-• rm 

M at O at •* M *• 

* * O 0OM *M 
M at O O M M M 

CO 



CD >-" 

M ro 

■» o 

a* 00 



vj 1-1 

MM VJ 

ro ro 

ro .-1 

o l-l 



M CO 



at at co o vj +. 
o ro vj vj 
vj « —» — 



NJ U « « 

+ vj m ro 



CO l-l 



VJ 00 
— vj 



W M - I 



1-1 + — I 



at © Nl ^ 



+ nj ro ro 



— + * * ft oj 00 
+ -v +f vj i-h ro ae 



+ vj ro ro 

vj v^ ,_, w 

+ ft t— t ro 

+r +r rO Ul 

vj 1-1 i-i o 

+ vj ro ro 



1» CO 

at O 

at * w M ^ n 1 

00 o ro 1— 1 + v. 1 



o >-i + 
ro vj + — 



• ••0O ONJ 



CO OJ 
CO o 



•>- • MM W« 

+ + + vj ro ro at 

^v + vj vj 1-1 oJ 



vj 
vj 
vj + — I 



^ V I I 



vj >_| 
vj I-I 
l-l vj 

* l-l 

vj vj 
l-l VJ 

# l-l 

l-l vj 

VJ l-l 

VJ ft 

ft vj 



ro i—t 
1-1 ro 

OJ l-l 
OJ 1-1 

ro 1—1 

O vj 
O l-l 
O 1-1 
0O vj 
«► 1-1 

00 1—1 
CO l-l 

co ro 

at 1-1 
00 I— I 

00 ro 
as vj 



~. * 1— 1 1— 1 ro a* 



» vj ro ro 



co oo 
co co 



» W M M \J ^. I 

o u ro ro h # 



~v + f , ft ft o M 



1— 1 ro oj 



o ro ♦* # ft 
© ro * — — 



+ ^ « \J H M W H 

+ + + » \i ro ro at 

+ + +r NJ NJ |-| OJ at 

vj+ + vj 1— 11— 1 OJ IV 



co OJ 

CO © 

00 «► 

CO CO 



W M * * M 
* Wm \J 



o 

CO 



I 

ro ro + 
# vj ^. 

NJ + 
vj vj 

+ » 
ro # » 
ro vj 



— o 

VJ OJ 
VJ OJ 



* ft vj 

l-l ft # 

M M « 

+ + — 

vj « + — 



HH # + VI 



►— i i— 1 ro o i» 



vj 1-1 



ro oj 
oj o 



at as as nji aps m art 



w # vj ro oj o a* 

* VJ _ ft oj o M 

+ + 1-1 oj ro *» <» 

VJ VJ vj ro oj o »-t 

# vj ro ro oj «» as 
w * 1-1 oj oj o at 
i-h 1-1 1-1 ro o oj at 

M M U U U « Z 

f < f t ro o o o at 

ro ro ro ro o o co 

\l M UOU » CO 

rororo 0*0 09 

ro uou «co go 

1-1 ro o •»• •» 00 as 

oj o o «» as 00 at 

u « at at at: * H 



at 00 o 



• o « o 
i» ar: o oj 
M at 00 oj 



aj ai H at co 



co a: oo 

oj «» co 

oj ro oj 

ro i-i vj 

vj * * 

U H t 

OJ 1-1 VJ + 

O 1-1 * ^» 

O OJ * - 

o ro ft +t 

» W M + 

» orj + 

« uro • 

co oh + 

O OJ VJ 

O OJ 1-1 

00 OJ VJ 

00 »» ro 
00 o 



— \ 

^v I 



VJ * 



vj 

vj 



»-l I— 1 vj 

ro i-i i-i 

co o ro 

as o + 



010^ 



1 " at t-a 

\ 1 ■*► a-a -w» 

\ I H O H 



1-1 vj 
1— 1 ro 

OJ 1-1 
00 OJ 



oj ro 

ft VJ 



ro » — + 



«► vj 

OJ l-l 
OJ VJ 

ro vj 
1— 1 1— 1 

1-1 VJ 
1-1 vj 
vj VJ 

l-l # 

VJ vj 
vj VJ 
vj vj 

# •-" 

VJ VJ 

# vj 



-^ \ I I 



\ « # l-l —. I 

I — U ft -~* s 

\ + m ro + I 

\ # ro ro vj s 

\ # w ro * 1 

<* o 

** OJ 

CO o 

as co 00 



— OJ 
+ •» 
vj 



ro ^ 

ro *» 
•► vj 



M MZO)*M»M\| I 



» co 1a aa at 
o at a* a* at 



•> CO IB 

o as at 



ro w co a 

oj ro oj 00 

ro oj o «► 

w ro w * 

oj ro ro oj 

ro oj oj o 

oj ro ro o 

oj ro oj oj 

ro ro oj o 

oj ro ro oj 






ro oj 

ro ro 

oj o 

OJ OJ 

o OJ 

o o 

OJ OJ 

o o 

o v. 

o o 

•«• *» 

o 00 

00 00 



V 



\fiiiH 

tt 






iiSS: 



ii 



SSil 

:■■ " - :■' 



V 



l i i i a i i iri . fMtj ' 



«tjaaj«M«jiaa«a**<^p^a^ 



ill! 
II 

s:sss| 



^!- 






HiHiii! 






5||pi|||| 



o 

00 

<*■ o •«» at 

» CO 2 2 2 

«► 00 at as ac <» 1-1 

co z a at 



ll lJ I J.lH. il 

ooojrooooojj. # 

corOH»»o*'- 

ooorovjooooji— 1--^ 

'OVJi— 1OJCOW1-1 + 

J »» ro^ 

GO OJ ro # H CO 1A U 4> 
ZUUHHOZUH 

00 oj w ft ft oj as t^ vj 



z » ro sj + 

z co • 

z « o 

at z * 

at arc 00 

at co « 

at at co 

at at co 



ro 1-1 vj + 



M at at at at at co 

H h at Z Z CO CO 
at at at at at 00 *» 
Hazzzzcoo 
H h a Z CO 00 
at at at at at co 
at at 00 at at 00 
00 



a a co oj co » 
at at at at co <» 
at at at at at co 



•-I vj 

ro i-i 

ro ro 

oj ro 

o o 

ro oj 

oj ro 

OJ OJ 

oj ro 

o OJ 

oj o 

OJ OJ 

4» O 

OJ O 

V» OJ 



# ro 

+ vj 

+ # 

vj vj vj 

vj vj vj 

ft ft ft 

oj oj o 

OJ 4* CO 

•*» at at 

00 at at 

o «» co 

W CO z 

O 00 CO 

O «» CO 

•> CO CO 

OJ OJ o 

oj oj ro 

oj ro vj 

ro nj ^ 



«► OJ 
OJ l-l 



O* O W W NJ 
CO 09 00 * « « 
a z * • * 

«» OJ f- O OJ o 

ro * » i-i * ro 

oj + -» + — 



co o 
oj ro 



«zo)mm«»WM 



ZCO|fr* W M#^ 



nim ~ 

NJ * NJ M » 

oj ro ro Nj + 

ro ro ft nj * 

+ ,-. + VJ 

N ^- •» 

* NJ 



I 



I 



co at 

at 00 

4* 00 

o «» 

«► o 

OJ o 

ro ro 

ro ro 

NJ l-l 

»-i » 

NJ VJ 

h- i 1— 1 

oj ro 

ft OJ 

nj 1-1 

* nj 



1* m at 00 00 



00 at at 
00 00 co 

» CO » 

o«co 
000 



ro 1-1 ro 

ro nj nj 

NJ H M 

l-l * NJ 

NJ NJ + 

+ * •» 



co at 
00 00 



at 00 

at 00 

o o 

OJ OJ 

OJ OJ 

ro ro 

ro ro 

i-i ro 

NJ VJ 

•-1 vj 



oj ro # 

« oro 

«» O OJ 

«► ** o 

00 CO CO 

«» o o 

«► O OJ 

oj oj ro 

l-l ft vj 

ro 1-1 1-1 

NJ l-l 1-1 

•» * NJ 

NJ NJ NJ 

» + + 



NJ * 
NJ 

ro 1-1 

i» o 

o OJ 

o OJ 

OJ OJ 

ft ro 

ro ro 

1-1 ro 

nj VJ 

1-1 ro 

NJ II 

NJ l-l 

nj ro 



+ + + 

» NJ NJ 

+ NJ NJ 

* VJ » 

NJ l-l NJ 

» NJ NJ 

l-l NJ VJ 

I— I NJ 1— I 

NJ « NJ 

l-l NJ 1—1 

NJ l-l l-l 

NJ VJ VJ 



* VJ 
+ 1—1 
+ NJ 

* l-l 
+ l-l 

* NJ 

* l-l 

* l-l 
NJ «. 

* l-l 

* l-l 
NJ VJ 
+ l-l 

* VJ 



# VJ « VJ 
+ + NJ # 

# * 4- HH 
+ NJ VJ |_| 
+ + NJ NJ 

« nj * ro 

+ NJ l-l NJ 

# » l-l l-l 

nj 1-1 nj ro 



H" NJ NJ VJ 



OJ OJ 

OJ OJ 

ro ro 

ro ro 

vj l-l 

nj * 

1-1 # 

* — 

NJ ^v 

NJ « 

» + 

VJ 



^ + NJ N) I- II— II— II— I NJ 



#NjNl#^-^ + MMH 



-~ ^ 'v # # Nl VJ 



+ ^ + h ro u 



11 Nl 
NJ VJ 



NJ + 4- + NJ 



j-^^^ + ^^^-i^ 4. ^.^. 



ro ro 
1-1 ro 
+ NJ 



ro ro 

ft ro 

ro nj 

ro ro 



* nj 
.-. NJ 



+ ft 

NJ l-l 

ro oj 
i-i ro 
oj ro 

OJ OJ 

ro ro 

OJ OJ 

ro oj 
hh ro 

Nl ft 

# Nl 
NJ « 

# Nl 



— + ~- ~- -~ 

+ — + + ^ 
+ * 

# Nl 



* ^ ^ — -~ 



Nl Nl Nl W# '* VJ 



+ + » 
Nl * * 



NJ Nl * 



# + # 
4- •» * 

* + * 
Nl VJ VJ 



NJ NJ l-l 

l-l Nl NJ 
NIMH 

NJ NJ l-l 

l-l l-l l-l 

i-i 1-1 ro 

l-l NJ l-l 

ro ro ro 

1-1 1-1 ro 

ro >-i 1-1 

ro ro oj 

1-1 ro ro 

oj ro ro 

ro ro OJ 

ro ro ro 

OJ OJ OJ 

ro oj oj 

oj oj ro 
000 

OJ OJ OJ 

O OJ OJ 

000 

OJ OJ OJ 

OJ o o 

ro oj o 

nj 1-1 ro 

NJ I— I I— 1 



ro ro 
ft ro 
1-1 i-i 
ro ro 



1-1 ro 
1-1 ro 
ro 1-1 
nj ro 
1-1 ro 
ro 1-1 
1-1 ro 
ro 1-1 
ro ro 
ro oj 

OJ l-l 

ro ro 
ro ro 
ro 1—1 
ro ro 

OJ l-l 

ro 1-1 
ro ro 



l-l l-l OJ l-l 



ro 1-1 

ro ro 

►1 ro 

ro ro 

ro oj 

ro ro 

OJ OJ 

ro oj 

oj ro 

oj o 

OJ OJ 

o OJ 

oj o 

OJ OJ 

o © 

ro o 

ro ro 



ro 

^-+#NI+J,###VJ 
-N + ^N • NlNI M Nl » 



«•*■ + + + « NJ 

u M NININI » Nl 



NJ Nl Nl 

i-i 1-1 ro 



Nl Nl 

ro 1-1 



ro ro 
ro ro 

OJ l-l 

ro ro 
oj ro 
oj to 
ro oj 
o ro 
oj ro 

OJ OJ 

© ro 

OJ OJ 
OJ OJ 

© ro 
oj © 
o OJ 
o OJ 
ro © 
ro oj 
1-1 © 
ni © 
ro oj 
ro © 



Figure 1: The image reproduced by IMAGE was originally a black-and-white photograph. The analog-to-digital converter used by 
the author registered a dark-to-light difference of 130, when the picture was processed. Magazine and book photos or artwork can 
also be reproduced satisfactorily. 

February 1981 © BYTE Publications Iik 221 



F = 


file the data. 






H = 


help, display menu. 






M = 


set maximum and minimum values. 


P = 


print the data back 


out. 




Q = 


quit and return to CP/M. 




R = 


read the file in. 






S = 


scan a new page. 






T = 


set the tone array. 






Table 1: The menu 


displayed 


by 


IMAGE. 







acters, and there is a primary and 
secondary string. Two separate 
strings were chosen so the printer 
would not have to backspace to pro- 
vide overstrike capability; characters 
from the secondary string print on 
top of those from the primary string. 
However, it does have to return the 
carriage without feeding a line. 

For an example of what a user can 
do with this system, refer to figure 1. 
In order to achieve the desired con- 
trast, it was necessary to use over- 
strike on the darker areas. This pic- 
ture originally was a black-and-white 
photograph reproduced from a maga- 
zine page. The difference between the 
maximum and minimum values read 
from the A/D converter for this pic- 
ture, was decimal 130. The higher this 
difference is, the more contrast the 
resulting printout will have and the 
better it will look. 

Using IMAGE 

The image processing program, 
IMAGE, is run as a transient program 
under Digital Research's CP/M 
operating system. If IMAGE is being 
used under some other system, the 
start-up procedure would change. 
The program is initially executed by 
typing in the following command 
line: 

A> IMAGE filename 

In this case, the data-storage file is 
identified as "filename. img". (The ex- 
tension "img" is assumed by the pro- 
gram.) This will be used for all corres- 
pondence with the disk. When con- 
trol is transferred to this program, a 
heading and initial menu are dis- 
played, allowing the user to choose 
one of several options. (See table 1.) 
The user may type either F, H, M, P, 
Q, R, S, or T (uppercase or lower- 
case). Anything else is ignored and 
causes the full list to be printed. 

F: File the Data 

This writes out the data that was 

Text continued on page 240 



Listing 1: IMAGE, the control program for image processing. This version is written 
for CP/M version 1.4 (compatible with version 2.0) and can scan 255 lines of up to 255 
characters. Overstrike capability is provided to increase contrast of output pictures by 
darkening areas as necessary. Try squinting your eyes or holding the images at different 
viewing distances to obtain a maximum of picture clarity (ie: the illusion's gestalt). 



IMAGE. ASM NOVEMBER 4,1979 

COPYRIGHT 1979, CLARK A. CALKINS 



THIS PROGRAM ALLOUES A USER TO SCAN OVER AN IMAGE PLACED IN 
THE CP/M LIST DEVICE AND RECORD THE RELATIVE GRAPHIC DENSITY 
VIA AN A/D. IT IS ASSUMED THAT THE USER HAS PLACED A PHOTO 
SENSITIVE DEVICE ON THE HEAD OF THE PRINTER AND CAN READ 
THE RELATIVE ENTENSITY OVER AN A/D CHANNEL. REFER TO DR. 
DOBBS JOURNAL, OCTOBER 1979 (VOL 4, ISSUE 9, H39) FOR DETAILS 
ON DOING THIS. 

TO USE THIS PROGRAM, TYPE: 
AHHAGE FILENAME<RET> 

ONCE EXECUTING, THIS PROGRAM UILL ASK FOR THE OPTION THAT 
IS DESIRED. THE USER MAY; 

1) SCAN A NEU IMAGE AND RECORD THE DENSITY DATA, 

2) FILE THE EXISTING DATA AUAY ON THE FILE SPECIFIED, 

3) READ IN DATA FROM A PREVIOUSLY SAVED SCAN FROM THE 
SPECIFIED FILE, 

4) SET THE TONE ARRAYS THAT UILL BE USED TO PRINT BACK THE 
IMAGE TO ANY DESIRED SET OF CHARACTERS, 

5) PRINT OUT THE IMAGE USING THE CURRENT TONE ARRAYS, 

6) SET MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM VALUES. 

THE FILE NAME SPECIFIED UILL BE GIVEN THE DEFAULT EXTENSION 
OF 'IMG'AND THIS MUST EXIST IF DATA IS TO BE READ BACK IN, OR 
IT UILL BE CREATED (IF NECESSARY) IF NEU DATA IS TO BE FILED 
AUAY. TO SCAN A NEU IMAGE, THIS CODE UILL ASK FOR THE DESIRED 
LINE LENGTH. TYPE IN THE LENGTH (IN DECIMAL) AND THEN YOU UILL 
BE GIVEN THE OPPORTUNITY TO POSITION THE PAPER BEFORE THE SCAN 
STARTS. ONCE STARTED, THE SCAN UILL CONTINUE UNTIL 2SS LINES 
HAVE BEEN SCANNED OR THE USER HAS TYPE ANY KEY (ONLY CHECKED 
AT THE END OF A LINE). THE RANGE OF VALUES READ UILL BE GIVEN 
AND CONTROL UILL RETURN TO THE OPTION SELECTION LEVEL. UHEN 
PRINTING THE DATA BACK OUT, TYPING ANY KEY (AGAIN AT THE END 
OF A LINE) UILL HALT THE PROCESS AND RETURN TO THE OPTION 
SELECTION LEVEL. 

THIS PROGRAM UILL NOT CHECK MEMORY USAGE, SO BE SURE THAT 
THERE IS ENOUGH ROOM FOR THE IMAGE BEING SCANNED (ONE BYTE 
IS USED PER COLUMN POSITION, PER LINE. 



0100 




ORG 


100H 




0100 31D307 


IMAGE 


LXI 


SP, STACK 


JSETUP STACK 


0103 117C04 




LXI 


D, HELLO 




0106 0E09 




HVI 


C,9 




0108 CD0S00 




CALL 


CPM 




010B 216500 




LXI 


H,005CH+9 


JSET IMAGE EXTENSION TO 


010E 3649 




HVI 


H,'I' 




0110 23 




INX 


H 




0111 364D 




MVI 


H,'H' 




0113 23 




INX 


H 




0114 3647 




MVI 


M,'G' 





'IMG'. 



0116 11BS04 


OPT 


LXI 


0119 OE09 




MVI 


011B CD0S00 




CALL 


011E 118105 


UHAT 


LXI 


0121 CDF303 




CALL 


0124 E65F 




ANI 


0126 FE46 




CPI 



ASK FOR THE DESIRED OPTION. HERE UE DON'T UAIT FOR A CARRIAGE 
RETURN, JUST THE FIRST THING TYPED. INVALID RESP0NCES ARE 
IGNORED. 



D,0PTI0N;UHAT DOES THE USER UANT TO DO? 

C,9 

CPM 

D,QUESTN 

ASK 

5FH ;MAKE UPPER CASE FOR COMPARISONS. 

'F' ;FILE THE DATA? 

Listing 1 continued on page 224 



222 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 151 on inquiry card. 



Udntex 

IMPACT PRINTERS 

150 CHARACTERS 
PER SECOND 

80/136 COLUMNS 
PER LINE 



The Series 6000 is perfect for 
applications where high reliabil- 
ity at a low cost is a major con- 
sideration. M icroprocessorcon- 
trolled. Heavy duty operation. 

Loaded with standard features. 
Tractor paper feed. Multi-part 
forms control. Top of form 
operation. Manual paper ad- 
vance control. Built-in test 
capability. Cartridge ribbon. 
9x7/9x9 dot matrix. Parallel or 
serial interfaces. Plus more. 

Contact us today for a free print 
sample. 



Odntex 



Va'CJI IIC?A Division of 
North Atlantic Industries 

60 Plant Avenue, 

Hauppauge, NY 11787 

(516) 582-6060 TWX 510-227-9660 



For more information 
please call 

800-645-5292 




Intri 



t It 



ucing 



The days of com plicated, unreliable, 
dynamic RAM are gone: 




$199, 



the ultrabyte memory board 



QC 1 complete kit \ 
%t W y m Vi teKmemoty) 



Netronics consistently offers innovative products at un- 
beatable prices. And here we go again — with JAWS, 
the ultrabyte 64K S100 memory board. 
ONE CHIP DOES IT ALL 
JAWS solves the problems of dynamic RAM with a 
state-of-the-art chip from Intel that does it all. Intel's 
single chip 64K dynamic RAM controller eliminates 
high-current logic parts . . . delay lines . . . massive 
heat sinks . . . unreliable trick circuits. 
REMARKABLE FEATURES OF JAWS 
Look what JAWS offers you: Hidden refresh . . . fast 
performance ... low power consumption . . . latched 
data outputs ... 200 NS 4116 RAMs . . . on-board 
crystal . . . 8K bank selectable . . . fully socketed . . . 
solder mask on both sides of board . . . designed for 
8080, 8085, and Z80 bus signals . . . works in Explorer, 
Sol, Horizon, as well as all other well-designed S100 
computers. 

IBNEYOURCOMPUTERABIBBmOFMEMORY | 
P0WERWimJAWS—SAVEUPT0$300N K 

IN1RODUCTORYUMI1ED-OFFERSPECIAI PRICES! | 

UNDECIDED? JW A WHO m JAWS IN YOUR COMPUTER ON OUR 
W-OAYMOHIY- BACK OmKSPCCIFYYOUR COMPUTm. 



CONTINENTAL U.S.A.CREDITCARO BIKERS OUTSIDECONNECncirrCAU 

CALL TOLL FREE 800-2437428 

From Connecticut Or For Atiiitinci, (203) 354-9375 Dept 

l^k ||[Tnn|||PQRESEARCH & b: 

ImniinUmuUDEVELOPMENTLTDi 

333 Litchfield Road, New Milford.CT 06776 
Please send the items checked below: 
D JAWS 16K RAM kit, No. 6416. S199.95.* 
G JAWS 16K RAM fully ammblid, tested, burned in, 

No.6416W.S229.95.* 
D JAWS32KRAMtot,No 6432, (reg. price S329.95! 

SPECIAL PRICE '299.95.* 
G JAWS 32K RAM fully aitamblad, tailed, burnad in, 

No. 6432W. (reg. price S369.95I, SPECIAL PRICE 

$339. 95. * 
G JAWS 4BK RAM kit, No. 6448, (reg. price S459.95I, 

SPECIAL PRICE 1399.95.* 
D JAWS 46K fully aiiamblad, tatted, burned in, No. 

6448W, (reg. price S509.95I, SPECIAL PRICE 

♦449.95.* 
CI JAWS 64K RAM kit, No. 6464. (reg. price S589.95). 

SPECIAL PRICE t499.95.* 
G JAWS 64K RAM fully aitamblad, tatted, burned in, 

No. 6464W, (reg. price S649.95), SPECIAL PRICE 

1559.95.* 
CI Eipamion kit, JAWS 16K RAM moduli, to expand 

eny of the above in 16K blocks up to 64K. No. 16EXP, 

S129.95* 

*AII prices plusS 2 postage and handling. Connecticut 
residents add sales tax. 
Total enclosed: S. 



CI Personal Check G Money order or Cashiers Check 

G VISA G MASTER CHARGE (Bank No ) 

Acct. No. Exp. Dete 

Signature 

Print Name 

Address — 

City 

State 



G Send me more information 



_Zip. 



Listing 1 continued: 








0128 CAA302 


JZ 


FILE 




012B FE50 


CPI 


'?' 


JPRINT THE FILE 


012D CA0502 


JZ 


PRT 




0130 FE54 


CPI 


'T' 


JSET THE TONES 


0132 CA5A03 


JZ 


TSET 




0135 FE53 


CPI 


''S' 


;SCAN A NEU PACE 


0137 CA4C01 


JZ 


SCAN 




013A FES1 


CPI 


'Q' 


•QUIT PR0CESSIN6 


013C CA0000 


JZ 







013F FE52 


CPI 


'R' 


;read in the file? 


0141 CA0F03 


JZ 


READF 




0144 FE4D 


CPI 


*N' 


•SET HAX AND HINS 


0146 CA7D03 


JZ 


SETKAX 




014? C31601 


JMP 


OPT 


;N0T RECOGNIZED 



014C 


AF 


014D 


32D307 


0150 


3D 


0151 


32D407 


0154 


111D06 


0157 


OE09 


0159 


CD0500 


015C 


CD9C03 


015F 


32D507 


0162 


1E0D 


0164 


CD0A04 


0167 


11?F05 


016A 


CDF303 


016D 


1604 


016F 


3E01 


0171 


320807 


0174 


OEFF 


0176 


21D707 


017? 


3AD507 


017C 


47 


017D 


CDCF03 


0180 


77 


0181 


3AD307 


0184 


BE 


0185 


D28C01 


0188 


7E 


018? 


32D307 


018C 


3AD407 


018F 


BE 


1 90 


DA9701 


1 93 


7E 


1 94 


32D407 


1 97 


23 


1 98 


14 


0199 


F2A501 


019C 


3A0807 


019F 


3C 


01A0 


320807 


01A3 


1600 


01A5 


1E20 


01A7 


CD0A04 


01AA 


05 


01AB 


C27D01 


01AE 


1E0D 


01 BO 


CD0AO4 


01B3 


1E0A 


01B5 


CD0A04 


01D8 


CDFD03 


01BB 


DACF01 


1 BE 


D5 



SCAN ACROSS THE PAGE AND COLLECT DATA FROM THE A/D. AT FIRST 
ASK THE USER FOR THE LINE LENGTH TO USE (A DECIMAL NUMBER). 
THEN GIVE HIM/HER AN OPORTUNITY TO POSITION THE PAGE BEFORE 
STARTING. CONTINUE SCANNING UNTIL 255 LINES HAVE BEEN CHECKED 
OR THE USER HAS TYPED A KEY (CHECKED AT THE END OF A LINE 
ONLY). UHEN DONE, REPORT THE MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM VALUES READ 
FROM THE A/D. HE HOPE THAT THE USER HAS ENOUGH MEMORY FOR ALL 
OF THIS SCAN DATA (ONE BYTE PER COLUMN PER LINE) AS A CHECK 
IS NOT MADE (BUT COULD BE IN NECESSARY). 



SCAN 



OUTLP 



INLP 



DOI 



D02 



D03 



XRA 

STA 

DCR 

STA 

LXI 

MVI 

CALL 

CALL 

STA 

MVI 

CALL 

LXI 

CALL 

MVI 

MVI 

STA 

MVI 

LXI 

LDA 

MOV 

CALL 

MOV 

LDA 

CMP 

JNC 

MOV 

STA 

LDA 

CMP 

JC 

MOV 

STA 

INX 

INR 

JP 

LDA 

INR 

STA 

MVI 

MVI 

CALL 

DCR 

JNZ 

MVI 

CALL 

MVI 

CALL 

CALL 

JC 

PUSH 



;set maximum and minimum values 

;find line length from user 



;tell user to ready the paper 
;this is a sector counter 



A 

MAX 

A 

MIN 

D,LLNGTH 

C,9 

CPM 

GETNUM ;GET NUMBER FROM USER 

LNGTH 

E, 13 ;RETURN THE CARRIAGE 

PRINT 

D,P0S 

ASK 

D,4 

A,1 

NSECT 

C,255 ;MAXIMUM ROU COUNT 

H.BUFF ;SET BUFFER ADDRESS 

LNGTH ;C0LUHMN COUNT 

B,A 

READ 

M,A 

MAX 

M 

DOI 

A,M 

MAX 

MIN 

M 

D02 

A,M 

MIN 

H 

D 

D03 

NSECT 

A 

NSECT 

D,0 

W ' 

PRINT 



;get a value from the a/d 

;keep track of max AND MIN VALUES 



jcount bytes 
jsector limit yet? 
;yes, count them 



;move one column 



INLP 

E,13 

PRINT 

E , 1 

PRINT 

CHECK 

TOUT 

D 



;NEXT LINE 



;CHECK THE KEYBOARD 



Listing 1 continued on page 226 



224 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Are you prepared for the explosive 
transformation? Right in your own 
home? Electronic mail. Personalized •. 
investment analysis. Foreign language 
tutorial. Home energy management. 
Robots. Computer music. Secretarial 
service. Diet and menu planning. And 
more, more, more. 

onCompating™ the new McGraw-Hill 
quarterly, prepares you for the 
enormous changes coming during the 



Pcrso 
nitouc 



''' '■':'■ . ■ 









Computer 
YOU? 



1 980's (Some are already here). 

onComputing™ explains in nontechnical 

language what personal computers are, 

how they work, and how you can use 

them at home, for fun and profit. 

Don't let the personal computer 

explosion catch you off guard. Know 

what's happening and help make it 

happen! Prepare now for the exciting 

future with a subscription to 

onComputing™! 



Call Toll-Free 

800-258-5485 



Start your 
subscription today. 



onCompottag™ Subscription Dept. P.O. Box 307, Martinsville, NJ 08836 

DOMESTIC subscription rata 

□ U.S. 1 vr. (4 issues) @ $850 □ Canada & Mexico, 1 yr. (4 issues) @ S 10.00 

FOREIGN (to expedite service, please remit in U.S. funds drawn on a U.S. bank.) 

□ Europe (and all other countries, except above), 1 yr. @ S 12.00 — surface delivery. 

D Bill Visa D Bill Master Charge □ Bill me (North America only) 



© onComputing, Inc. 1980 



Card Number 


Expiration 


< 


Signature 


Name (please print) 


c 


Street/Apartment Number ! 


City 


State/Pro vince/Country Code 


7B21 



Circle 152 on Inquiry card. 



' MBC Systems, Inc. 

(203) 342-2747 






I ss»"a 




NORTH STAR HORIZON: 

HRZ-2-32K-D-Factory ASMS2275 
HRZ-2-32K-Q-Factory ASM$2675 
64K DD or Q Also Available 

HDS-18-F $4449 

Northword DQ $ 359 

INFO-Manager $ 365 

Mail Manager $ 269 

General Leger $ 775 

ACC. REC. OR ACC. PAY..$ 445 

Word Star $ 350 

Medical-Dental SYS $2500 




COMMODORE (PET) : 

2001-32K-BorN Keyboard $1090 
16K Also in Slock. ...$859!!! 
8032 (80 Column Screen) $1599 
2040 Dual Floppy Drive $1090 
8050 Dual Floppy (1MEG)$1599 
2022 Tractor Printer. ..$ 749 

Word PRO IV $ 290 

VISICALC $ 195 

APPLE II PLUS Call For Price! 



ATARI 800 $ 849 

TI 99/4 ConsoleSMonitor . . $990 
INTERTEC SUPERBRAIN: 



32K RAM $2595 

64K RAM $2695 



PRINTERS 

Letter Quality: 

NEC 5510 or 5530 $2550 

NEC 5520 KSR $2950 

DIABLO 630 $2390 

C.ITOH $1690 

Dot Matrix: 

CENTRONICS 730 $ 599 

737-1 $ 799 

799 $999 

EPSON MX-80 $ 599 

PAPER TIGER 460G $1250 

BASE II MST $ 649 



DISPLAY TERMINALS 

HAZELTINE 1420 $ 949 

" " 1500 $ 999 

INTERTUBE III $ 775 

TELEVIDEO 920C $ 849 



Since 1977 complete sales and 
service. Most items in stock, 
prices are subject to change. 
Visa and Master Charge welcome 
Most items shipped by UPS. 

MBC Systems, Inc. 

Multi Computer Business Systems, Inc. 
28 MARLBOROUGH STREET 
PORTLAND, CONN. 06480 

(203)342-2747 TWX 710-428-6345 
k M-F 9-6 SAT. 9:30-3:00 



Listing 1 continued: 



01BF 


110000 


01C2 


IB 


01C3 


E3 


01C4 


E3 


01C5 


7B 


01C6 


B2 


01C7 


C2C201 


01CA 


D1 


1 CB 


0D 


01CC 


C27901 


01CF 


3EFF 


01D1 


91 


01D2 


328607 


01 D5 


OC 


1 D6 


OB 


om? 


0E01 


01 D9 


C40500 


01DC 


214A06 


01 HF 


3AB307 


01E2 


5F 


01E3 


1600 


01ES 


010A03 


01E8 


CB3404 


01EB 


215A0A 


01EE 


3AD407 


01F1 


5F 


01F2 


1600 


01F4 


010A03 


01F7 


CD3404 


01FA 


112E06 


01FD 


0E09 


01FF 


CD0500 


0202 


C31E01 



0205 


119F05 


0208 


CBF303 


020B 


3AB607 


020E 


47 


020F 


21B707 


0212 


EB 


0213 


C5 


0214 


211107 


0217 


3A1007 


021A 


B5 


021B 


C04E02 


021E 


B1 


021F 


215307 


0222 


3A5207 


0225 


A7 


0226 


D5 


0227 


C44E02 


022A 


El 


022B 


C0F003 


022E 


BA4502 


0231 


1E0A 


0233 


CD0A04 


0236 


3AD507 


0239 


5F 


023A 


1600 


023C 


19 


023B 


CI 


023E 


05 


023F 


C21202 


0242 


C31E01 


0245 


CI 


0246 


0E01 


0248 


CD0500 


024B 


C31E01 



BELAY 



TOUT 



PRTMX 



LXI 

BCX 

XTHL 

XTHL 

H0V 

0RA 

JNZ 

POP 

DCR 

JNZ 

HUI 

SUB 

STA 

INR 

BCR 

HUI 

CNZ 

LXI 

LBA 

HOU 

HUI 

LXI 

CALL 

LXI 

LBA 

HOU 

HUI 

LXI 

CALL 

LXI 

HUI 

CALL 

JMP 



[i,0 
D 



,-BELAY TO ALL0U RETURN OF CARRIAGE 



A,E 

B 

BELAY 

D 

C 

0UTLP 

A, 255 

C 

LINES 

C 

C 

C,1 

CPH 

H,HAXU 

HAX 

E,A 

D,0 

8,3*254+10 |USE DECIMAL 

BT0A 

H,MINU 

MIN 

E,A 

8,0 

8,3*256+10 

BT0A 

B.HAXHIN ;PRINT THIS DATA N0U 

C,9 

CPM 

UHAT 



;bone uith page? 

jc0hpute number of lines used 



JRETRIEVE CHARACTER TYPED 

;UNLESS THERE UAS NONE. 

JSETUF THE MAX AND MIN UALUES FOR THE 

JUSER TO SEE 



PRINT OUT THE IHAGE. THERE ARE TU0 TONE ARRAYS THAT UILL BE 
USEB FOR EACH LINE SUCH THAT 'OvERSTRIKE ' MAY BE USED UITH A 
PRINTER THAT B0ES NOT BACKSPACE. EACH TONE ARRAY UILL BE 
C0NSIBEREB SEPERATLY (THEY BON'T HAVE TO BE THE SAME LENGTH). 
THIS WILL ALLOU THE USER TO HAUE LOTS OF CONTROL OUER THE 
OUTPUT, IF HE/SHE CAN EUER BECIDE ON UHICH CHARACTERS TO USE. 



PRT 



PRTLP 



POUT 



LXI 

CALL 

LDA 

HOU 

LXI 

XCHG 

PUSH 

LXI 

LDA 

PUSH 

CALL 

POP 

LXI 

LDA 

ANA 

PUSH 

CNZ 

POP 

CALL 

JC 

HUI 

CALL 

LDA 

HOU 

HUI 

DAD 

POP 

DCR 

JNZ 

JHP 

POP 

HUI 

CALL 

JHP 



D.POS 

ASK 

LINES 

B,A 

H,BUFF 



H.T0NE1 

NUHBR1 

8 

PRINTLN 

8 

H.T0NE2 

NUHBR2 

A 

8 

PRINTLN 

H 

CHECK 

POUT 

E, 10 

PRINT 

LNGTH 

E,A 

8,0 

[i 



JTELL USER TO REABY PAPER 

;THIS IS HOU LONG THE SCAN IS 

THE SCAN BATA STARTS HERE. 

HOVE BATA AB8RESS TO (BE) 

SAUE LENGTH 

THIS IS THE PRIHARY TONE ARRAY 

ANB ITS LENGTH 

SAUE BATA ADDRESS 

PRINT THIS LINE 

RESTORE DATA ADDRESS 

HOU USE THE SECONDARY TONE ARRAY 

NOTE THAT THIS IS ZERO IF THERE IS 

NO SECONDARY ARRAY. 

SAUE ADDRESS 

;SET (HL) TO START OF LINE JUST PRINTED. 

;CHECK THE KEYBOARD 

;AND QUIT IF ANYTHING IS PRESENT 

;add A (LF> to the output FOR THE NEXT 

;line. 

jcompute start of next line 



;(hd has start address nou 
;decrehent line counter. 



PRTLP 

UHAT 

B 

C,1 

CPH 

UHAT 



;back TO option selection level 

;SET STACK STRAIGHT 
;GET CHARACTER TYPED 



;but ignore 



Listing 1 continued on page 228 



226 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Computer experts 
(the pros) usually have big 
computer experience. 
That's why when they shop 
system software for Z80 
micros, they look for 
the big system features 
they're used to. And that's 
why they like Multi-User 
OASIS. You will too. 



DATA INTEGRITY: FILE & 
AUTOMATIC RECORD LOCKING 



The biggest challenge 
for any multi-user system 
is co-ordinating requests 
from several users 
to change the same record 
atthe same time. 

Without proper 
co-ordination, the 
confusion and problems 
of inaccurate or even 
destroyed data can be 
staggering. 

Our File and Automatic 
Record Locking features 
solve these problems. 

For example: normally 
all userscanviewa 
particular record atthe 
same time. But, if that 
record is being updated 
by one user, automatic 
record locking will deny all 
other users access to the 
record until the up-date is 
completed. So records 
are always accurate, 
up-to-date and integrity 
is assured. 

Pros demand file & 
automatic record locking. 
OASIS has it. 

SYSTEM SECURITY: 

LOGON, PASSWORD 

& USER ACCOUNTING 



Controlling who gets on 
your system and what they 
do once they're on it is the 
essence of system security. 



(THEN COMPARE.) 



Without this control, 
unauthorized users could 
access your programs and 
data and do what they like. 
A frightening prospect 
isn't it? 

And multi-users 
can multiply the problem. 

But with the Logon, 
Password and Privilege 



Level features of Multi-User 



OASIS, a system manager 
can specify for each user 
which programs and files 
may be accessed — 
and for what purpose. 

Security is further 
enhanced by User 
Accounting — a feature that 



lets you keep a history 
of which user has been 
logged on, when and 
for how long. 

Pros insist on these 
security features. 
OASIS has them. 



EFFICIENCY: 
RE-ENTRANT BASIC 



A multi-user system 
is often not even practical 
on computers limited 
to 64K memory. 

OASIS Re-entrant 
BASIC makes it practical. 

How? 

Because all users use a 
single run-time BASIC 
module, to execute their 
compiled programs, less 



memory is needed. Even 
if you have more than 64K, 
your pay-off is cost saving 
and more efficient use 
of all the memory you have 
available— because it 
services more users. 

Sound like a pro feature? 
It is. And OASIS has it. 



AND LOTS MORE. 



Multi-UserOASIS supports 
as many as 1 6 terminals 
and can run in as little as 
56K memory. Or, with 
bank switching, as much 
as 784K. 

Multi-Tasking lets each 
user run more than one 
job at the same time. 

And there's our BASIC- 
a compiler, interpreter and 
debugger all in one. 
An OASIS exclusive. 

Still more: Editor; Hard 
& Floppy Disk Support; 
Keyed (ISAM), Direct & 
Sequential Files; Mail-Box; 



Scheduler; Spooler; 
all from OASIS. 

Our documentation is 
recognized assome of the 
best, most extensive, in the 
industry. And, of course, 
there's plenty of 
application software. 

Put it all together and it's 
easy to see why the real 
pros like OASIS. Join them. 
Send your order today. 




OASIS IS AVAILABLE FOR 

SYSTEMS: Alios: Cornpucorp:Cromemco: 
Delta Producls: Digital Group: Digital 
Microsystems; Dynabyte; Godbout: IBC; 
Index; Inlersystems; North Star: Onyx: 
SD Systems; TRS 80 Mod II: Vector 
Graphic: Vorimex 

CONTROLLERS: Bell Controls: Cameo; 
Corvus; Konan; Micromation: Micropolis: 
Tarbell; Teletek: Thmkertoys: X Comp 



Write for complete. 






free Application Software Directory, 




PLEASE SEND ME: 






Price 






with 


Manual 


Product 


Manual 


Only 


OPERATING SYSTEM 






(Includes: 






EXEC Language; 






File Management, 






User Accounting; 






Device Drivers; 






Print Spooler; 






General Text 






Editor; etc.) 






SINGLE-USER 


$150 


SI 7.50 


MULTI-USER 


350 


17.50 


BASIC COMPILER/ 






INTERPRETER/DEBUGGER 


too 


1500 


RE-ENTRANT BASIC 






COMPILER/INTERPRETER/ 






DEBUGGER 


150 


15.00 


DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE 






(Macro Assembler; 






Linkage Editor; 






Debugger) 


150 


25.00 


TEXT EDITOR & 






SCRIPT PROCESSOR 


150 


15.00 


DIAGNOSTIC & 






CONVERSION UTILITIES 






(Memory Test; 






Assembly Language; 






Conveners; File 






Recovery; Disk Test: 






File Copy from 






other OS; etc.) 


100 


15 00 


COMMUNICATIONS 






PACKAGE 












File Send & Receive) 


100 


15.00 


PACKAGE PRICE 






(All Of Above) 






SINGLE-USER 


500 


60.00 


MULTI-USER 


350 


60.00 


FILE SORT 


100 


15.00 


' COBOL-ANSI '74 


750 


35.00 



Order OASIS from: 

Phase One Systems, Inc. 

7700 Edgewater Drive, Suite 830 

Oakland, CA 94621 

Telephone (415) 562-8085 
TWX 910-366-7139 

NAME 

STREET (NO BOX=) 

CITY 

STATE ZIP 



AMOUNTS 

(Attach system description; 

add S3 for shipping, 

California residents add sales tax) 

□ Check enclosed □ VISA 

□ UPS C.O.D. □ Mastercharge 

Card Number 

Expiration Date 

Signature 



MAKES MICROS RUN LIKE MINIS 



Circle 153 on Inquiry card. 



MORE FOR YOUR ^ 

RADIO SHACK 
TRS-80 MODEL I ! 

THE DATAHANDLER 

DATABASE MANAGEMENT 
SYSTEM IN MMSFORTH 

Now the power, speed and compactness of 
MMSFORTH drive a major applications pro- 
gram for many of YOUR home, school and 
business tasks! Imagine a sophisticated 
database management system with flexibili- 
ty to create, maintain and print mailing lists 
with multiple address lines, Canadian or the 
new 9-digit U.S. ZIP codes, and multiple 
phone numbers, plus the speed to load hun- 
dreds of records or sort them on several 
fields in 5 seconds! Manage inventories with 
selection by any character or combination. 
Balance checkbook records and do CONDI- 
TIONAL reporting of expenses or other cal- 
culations. File any records and recall 
selected ones with optional upper/lower 
case match, in standard or custom formats. 
Personnel, membership lists, bibliographies, 
catalogs of record, stamp and coin collec- 
tions—you name it! ALL INSTANTLY, with- 
out wasted bytes, and with cueing from 
screen so good that non-programmers quick- 
ly master Its use! With manual, sample data 
files and custom words for mail list and 
checkbook use. 

Technical: Handles data as compressed in- 
dexed sequential subfiles of up to 25K char- 
acters (9K in 32K RAM). Access 1-4 data 
diskettes. Modified Quicksort. Optionally 
precompiles for 5-second program load. Self- 
adjusts for many routine mods. Structured 
and modular MMSFORTH source code ideal 
for custom modifications. 

THE DATAHANDLER V1.1, a very soph- 
isticated database management system 
operable by non-programmers (requires Disk 
MMSFORTH, 1 drive & 32K RAM); with 
manuals $59.95* 




FORTH 



THE PROFESSIONAL FORTH 
FOR TRS-80 MODEL I 

(Over 1,000 systems in use) 

MMSFORTH Disk System V1.9 (requires 1 

disk drive & 16K RAM) )ust $79.95* 

MMSFORTH Cassette System V1.8 (requires 
Level II BASIC & 16K RAM) $59.95* 

AND MMS GIVES IT 
PROFESSIONAL SUPPORT 

Source code provided 

MMSFORTH Newsletter 

Many demo programs aboard 

MMSFORTH User Groups 

Programming staff can adapt 

THE DATAHANDLER to YOUR needs. 

MMSFORTH UTILITIES DISKETTE: includes 
FLOATING POINT MATH (L.2 BASIC ROM 
routines plus Complex numbers, 
Rectangular-Polar coordinate conversions, 
Degrees mode, more), plus a full Forth-style 
Z80 ASSEMBLER; plus a powerful CROSS- 
REFERENCER to list Forth words by block 
and line. All on one diskette (requires 
MMSFORTH, 1 drive & 16K RAM), . . $39.95' 

FORTH BOOKS AVAILABLE 

MICROFORTH PRIMER (comes with 

MMSFORTH) separately $15.00* 

USING FORTH — more detailed and advanc- 
ed than above $25.00* 

THREADED INTERPRETIVE LANGUAGES- 
advanced, excellent analysis of 

MMSFORTH-like language $18.95* 

CALTECH FORTH MANUAL — good on 

Forth internal structure, etc $10.00* 

* — Software prices include manuals and re- 
quire signing of a single-system user 
license. Add $2.00 S/H plus $1.00 per addi- 
tional book; Mass. orders add 5% tax. 
Foreign orders add 15%. UPS COD, VISA & 
M/C accepted; no unpaid purchase orders, 
please. 

Send SASE lor free MMSFORTH information. 
Good dealers sought 

Get MMSFORTH products from your 
computer dealer or 

MILLER MICROCOMPUTER 
SERVICES (B2) 

61 Lake Shore Road, Natick, MA 01760 
(617)653-6136 



Listing 1 continued 



024E 


4F 


024F 


3AD407 


02S2 


47 


0253 


3AD307 


0256 


?0 


025? 


0600 


025? 


?) 


025A 


DA6102 


025D 


04 


025E 


C35902 


0261 


78 


0262 


320707 


0265 


A7 


0266 


C8 


026? 


EB 


0268 


D5 


026? 


3AD507 


026C 


47 


026D 


3AD407 


0270 


96 


027) 


2F 


0272 


3C 


0273 


F5 


0274 


3A0707 


0277 


5F 


0278 


F1 


027? 


1600 


027B 


?3 


027C 


DA8302 


027F 


14 


0280 


C37B02 


0283 


7? 


0284 


3D 


0285 


BA 


0286 


DA8A02 


028? 


7A 


028A 


D1 


028B 


D5 


028C 


83 


028D 


5F 


028E 


3E00 


02?0 


8A 


02?) 


57 


02?2 


IA 


0293 


5F 


02?4 


CD0A04 


0297 


23 


0298 


05 


02?? 


C26D02 


029C 


1E0D 


029E 


CD0A04 


02AI 


D1 


02A2 


C? 



PRINT OUT ONE LINE OF IMAGE DATA. ONE ENTRY, (HL) POINTS TO 
THE TONE ARRAY TO USE AND (A) CONTAINS ITS LENGTH. THE SCAN 
DATA TO USE IS POINTED TO BY ( DE ) . ALL REGISTERS ARE USED BY 
THIS ROUTINE AND NOT RESTORED. 



PRINTLN 



DIVLP 



D1 



0UTLP1 



INLP1 



DIVLP1 



D2 



D3 



MOV 

LDA 

MOV 

LDA 

SUB 

MVI 

SUB 

JC 

INR 

JMP 

MOV 

STA 

ANA 

RZ 

XCHG 

PUSH 

LDA 

MOV 

LDA 

SUB 

CHA 

INR 

PUSH 

LDA 

MOV 

POP 

MVI 

SUB 

JC 

INR 

JMP 

MOV 

DCR 

CMP 

JC 

MOV 

POP 

PUSH 

ADD 

MOV 

MVI 

ADC 

MOV 

LDAX 

MOV 

CALL 

INK 

DCR 

JNZ 

MVI 

CALL 

POP 

RET 



C,A 

MIN 

B,A 

MAX 

B 

B,0 

C 

D1 

B 

DIVLP 

A,B 

SCALE 

A 



D 

LNGTH 

B,A 

MIN 

M 

A 

PSU 

SCALE 

E,A 

PSU 

D,0 

E 

D2 

D 

DIVLP1 

A,C 

A 

D 

D3 

A,D 

D 

D 

E 

E,A 

A,0 

D 

D,A 

D 

E,A 

PRINT 

H 

B 

INLP1 

E,I3 

PRINT 

D 



JSAVE LENGTH OF TONE ARRAY. 
•COMPUTE (MAX-MIN)/LENGTH 



-save result here 
-reject bad image data 

;(hl)=scan data, (de)=t0ne array 
"and save this on the stack 
;c0lumn limit 

jcompute: (data-mini/scale 
;nou <a>=min-data 

;nou (a>=dtat-nin 



•DON'T ALL0U IT TO BE TOO BIG 



; ITS 0K, JUST USE IT. 

•GET THE A(TH> BYTE FROM THE TONE STRING 



•GET THE BYTE TO PRINT 
;next BYTE 

;ADD (CR) 

JCLEANUP STACK 
; AND BACK OUT 



FILE THE DATA AUAY ON THE SUER SPECIFIED FILE. ON ENTRY TO 
IMAGE, THIS FILENAME UAS SPECIFIED (HOPEFULLY) AND UE HAVE 
ALREADY ADDED THE EXTENSION 'IMG' TO IT. IF THE INDICATED 
FILE ALREADY EXISTS, IT UILL BE DELETED AND A NEU FILE IS 
CREATED. THE INFORMATION SAVED UILL BE THE SCAN DATA ARRAY 
ITSELF, THE MAXIMUM AND MINIMUM VALUES IN THIS ARRAY, THE 
NUMBER OF SCAN LINES PRESENT, AND THE LENGTH OF EACH LINE. 
THIS DATA MAY BE READ BACK IN AT ANOTHER TIME UITH THE 'R' 
COMMAND. 



JCHECK FOR ANYTHING TO FILE 

Listing 1 continued on page 230 



02A3 


3A0807 


FILE 


LDA 


NSECT 


02A6 


A7 




ANA 


A 


02A7 


CA0403 




JZ 


NOTHING 



Are important letters and reports 
leaving your office with spelling errors? 




ELLGUARD 

can proofread 
10,000 words 
in one minute. 



SPELLGUARD is a revolutionary new computer program that finds 
spelling mistakes and typographical errors in documents prepared with 
CP/M 1 or CDOS 5 compatible word processors and text editors. 

In less than one minute, SPELLGUARD proofreads 20 pages of text 
(10,000 words) and identifies all misspelled or mis-typed words based on 
its 20,000-word dictionary* After proofreading, SPELLGUARD asks 
the operator to review words identified as potential errors and judge each 
as correct or incorrect. Correct words may be added to the dictionary. 
SPELLGUARD marks incorrect words in the text so the operator can use 
a word processor or text editor to easily find and correct them. 

SPELLGUARD is Easy to Use 

• full proofreading capabilities are mastered after a few minutes of 
instruction. 

• comprehensive user's manual contains step-by-step examples of all 
SPELLGUARD features. 

SPELLGUARD is Powerful 

• text files to 85 pages (CP/M 1.4), and 2,800 pages (CP/M 2.0). 

• includes a 20,000-word, expandable dictionary. 

• contains powerful commands to construct customized dictionaries for 
special areas, e.g., medicine, real estate, law, insurance, engineering. 

SPELLGUARD is Reliable 

• thoroughly tested in actual use. 

• 30-day money-back limited warranty. 

Minimum System Requirements: 8080/85, Z80 CPU with 32K memory: CP/M' 1.4 (dictionaries to 

256K bytes), CP/M' 2.0 or later (dictionaries to 4 MB), or CDOS; word processor or text editor 

compatible with SPELLGUARD (currently several excellent new CP/M word processors, and 

WordStar 2 , WordMaster 2 , Magic Wand 3 , Electric Pencil 4 , and ED). 

Trademarks: 'Digital Research (registered). 2 MicroPro Int'l Corp., ; 'Small Business Applications, 

"■Michael Shrayer Software, 5 Cromenco. 

*Time estimates based on 4Mhz 8085 with 48K memory, CP/M 2.1 double density 8" floppy drive, 

10,000-word text file. 



INNOVATIVE SOFTWARE APPLICATIONS 

Box 2797, Menlo Park, California 94025 415-326-0805 



The price of SPELLGUARD includes 
rapid turnaround and delivery by UPS or 
airmail. Sales will be made only if the 
purchasers' word processor is compatible 
with SPELLGUARD. Software license 
agreement is required. 

□ Send me a free, detailed description of 
SPELLGUARD. 

□ Send me SPELLGUARD at $295.00. 
(Manual and diskette(s). Formats: 8" 
CP/M single density Shugart compat- 
ible, and 5'/4" Northstar double.) 

□ Send me copies of the 

SPELLGUARD manual at $20.00 each. 
(Airmail, credited toward purchase.) 

□ Send COD (add $10.00 handling). 
California residents add 6% tax. 
Add $10.00 for foreign shipment. 

Check enclosed for$ . 

(Certified check, COD, and money order 
shipped immediately.) 



ORGANIZATION 



WORD PROCESSOR 



COMPUTER SYSTEM 



DISK FORMAT 



Checks payable to ISA 

Box 2797, Menlo Park, CA 94025. 




STATE-OF-THE-ART 
SOFTWARE 



Circle 154 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 229 



The joy of music — 

without years of practice! 




ALF offers the very finest in music 
hardware and software for the 
Apple® II. You can enter your own 
songs from sheet music and play 
them back very easily — our de- 
tailed manual shows you how, step 
by step. And there's a growing 
library of preprogrammed songs 
available too — now over 115 songs 
on 7 "albums", priced under $15 
each. ALF's highly acclaimed music 
software has many features found 
on no other Apple music product — 
and no customer has ever reported a 
"bug" or error. 

Whether you pick our exciting 
9-voice MCI music card at just 
$195, or our gourmet 3-voice MC16 
card at $245, you'll get ALF's top- 
quality hardware that's famous for 
reliability and clean sound (we've 
been designing computer-controlled 
musical instruments since 1975). 

So see your Apple dealer today, and 
be sure to specify ALF music cards 
for the best performance. When 
you've seen ALF's total music 
package, you'll know why some 
music cards are more equal than 
others! 

Please mention this magazine when 
requesting information from: 

<^|\ A L F Products Inc. 

^&? 1448 Estes Denver. CO 80215 (303) 234-0871 
Apple is a trademark of Apple Computer Inc. 



Listing 1 continued: 



DISK COPYING 

Dependable, no-hassle copying of 
Apple-compatible disks (all formats, 
including copy-protected). Fast 
service on 50 copies or thousands 
of copies. Mix titles for quantity 
discounts. Call or write for more 
information. 

ALF Products Inc. 

1448 Estes Denver, CO80215 
(303)234-0871 



02AA 
02AD 
02AF 
02B2 
02B5 
02B7 
02BA 
02BD 
02BF 
02C2 
02C3 
02C6 
02C9 
02CB 
02CE 
02D1 
0204 
02B5 
02B8 
02DB 
02DC 
02BD 
02DE 
02E0 
02E3 
D2ES 
02E8 
02EB 
02EC 
D2ED 
02F0 
02F3 
02F4 
02F5 
02F6 
02F? 
02FC 
02FE 
0301 



115C00 

0E13 

CD0500 

115C00 

0E16 

CD0500 

115C00 

0E0F 

CD0500 

3C 

C2D102 

11B805 

0E09 

CD0500 

C30000 

21B307 

AF 

327C00 

3A0807 

F5 

E5 

EB 

0E1A 

CD0500 

0E15 

115C00 

CD0500 

E1 

A7 

C2C602 

118000 

1? 

F1 

3D 

C2DB02 

115C00 

0E10 

CD0500 

C31E01 



0304 115F06 
0307 0E09 
030? CD0500 
030C C31E01 



030F 
0312 
0314 
0317 
0318 
03 IB 
03 IE 
031F 
0322 
0323 
0324 
0325 
0327 
032A 
032D 
032F 
0332 
0333 
0336 
0339 
033A 
033B 
033C 
033B 
0340 
0341 
0344 
0347 
0349 



1 1 scoo 

0E0F 

CD0500 

3C 

CA4F03 

21D307 

AF 

327C00 

F5 

E5 

EB 

0E1A 

CD0500 

115C00 

0E14 

CD0500 

A7 

C24003 

118000 

El 

19 

F1 

3C 

C32203 

F1 

320807 

1 1 SCOO 

0E10 

CD0500 



ERR 



F1 



FILELP 



LXI 

Hvl 

CALL 

LXI 

Hvl 

CALL 

LXI 

HVI 

CALL 

INR 

JNZ 

LXI 

hvl 

CALL 

JHP 

LXI 

XRA 

STA 

LDA 

PUSH 

PUSH 

XCHG 

Hvl 

CALL 

Hvl 

LXI 

CALL 

POP 

ANA 

JNZ 

LXI 

DAD 

POP 

DCR 

JNZ 

LXI 

Hvl 

CALL 

JHP 



NOTHING LXI 
Hvl 

CALL 
JHP 



D,005CH 

C,19 

CPH 

D.005CH 

C,22 

CPH 

D,005CH 

C ,15 

CPH 

A 

F1 

D,ERR1 

C,9 

CPH 



H,HAX 

A 

005CH+32 

NSECT 

PSU 

H 

C,26 

CPH 

C,21 

D,005CH 

CPH 

H 

A 

ERR 

D , 1 28 

D 

PSU 

A 

FILELP 

D,005CH 

C , 1 6 

CPH 

UHAT 

D,NQNE 
C,9 
CPH 
UHAT 



;use default fcb 
;delete the file 



;create it n0u 
;and open it. 

;no rooh 

;this is uhere it is stored. 
;set initial sector counter to zero 
;in default fcb. 
;and this is hou long 

;set the transfer address 

jurite this sector 



;check status of last urite 
;hust be out of space 
;c0hpute address of next 



;CL0SE THE FILE NQU 



;TELL USER TO SCAN S0HETHING FIRST. 



READ IN THE FILE THAT UAS GIVEN IN THE INITIAL C0HHAND. 



READF 



READLP 



READDN 



LXI 

Hvl 

CALL 

INR 

JZ 

LXI 

XRA 

STA 

PUSH 

PUSH 

XCHG 

Hvl 

CALL 

LXI 

Hvl 

CALL 

ANA 

JNZ 

LXI 

POP 

DAD 

POP 

INR 

JHP 

POP 

STA 

LXI 

Hvl 

CALL 



D,005CH ;0PEN THIS FILE 

C, 15 
CPH 

A JUAS THIS FILE PRESENT ? 
NOFILE 

H,HAX ;PUT THE DATA HERE 
A ;SET INITIAL SECTOR COUNTER TO ZERO 
005CH+32;IN DEFAULT FCB. 
PSU 
H 

;SET THE TRANSFER ADDRESS 
C,26 
CPH 

D.005CH ;READ A SECTOR 
C,20 
CPH 
A 
READDN 

D, 128 
H 
D 

PSU 
A 

READLP 
PSU 
NSECT 

D,005CH ;CL0SE THE FILE 

C,1 6 

CPH 

Listing 1 continued on page 232 



fZERO IS A GOOD READ 



;C0HPUTE NEXT ADDRESS 
;C0UNT THEH SECTORS READ. 



;SAVE SECTORS READ 



230 February 1981 © BY! E Publications Inc 



Circle 156 on inquiry card. 



Ten reasons 



l 



BASF FlexyDtok 1 
No. 



rr%!3 $r 



More than four decades of experi- 
ence in magnetic media -BASF 
invented magnetic recording 
tape, the forerunner of today's 
wide range of magnetic media, 
back in 1934, and was the first 
independent manufacturer of 
IBM-compatible floppy disks. 



Tough Tyvek sleeve — no paper 
dust, no static electricity. 



Special self -cleaning jacket and 
liner help eliminate data errors 
and media wear and tear. 



BASF BASF RexyDisk 



Center hole diameter punched to 
more accurate standards than 
industry specifications, for top 
performance. 



Packaging to suit your 
requirements - standard flip-top 
box, Kassette 10® storage case, 
or bulk pack. 



Bi-axially oriented polyester 
substrate - for uniform and reli- 
able performance year after year. 



Cross-linked oxide coating-for 
low head wear and long trouble- 
free media life. 



Total capability- one of two man- 
ufacturers in the world that 
iimakes both 8" and 5.25" models, 
has tape and disk experience, and 
manufactures floppy disk drives. 



Double lubrication -lubricants 
both in the formula and on the 
disk surface, to minimize media 
wear due to head friction. 



100% certification- every single 
disk is tested at thresholds 2-3 
times higher than system require- 
ments, to be 100% error-free. 



For the name of your nearest 
supplier, write BASF Systems, 
Crosby ■rive, Bedford, 
MA 01730, or call 617-271-4030. 
See us at the NCC, Booth 1121 




BASF 



Floppy Disks Mag Cards Cassettes Computer Tapes Disk Packs Computer Peripherals 



Circle 157 on Inquiry card. 



PERSONAL 

COMPUTER 

SYSTEMS 
topple computer 

■ Sales and Service 




APPLE II, 16K, List $1 195 $ 989 

32K, List $1395 $1169 

48K 1259 

ATARI® 400™, List $630 
OUR PRICE ONLY $499 

820 PRINTER, List $599.95 $499 

810 DISK DRIVE, List $699.95 $589 




only $2799 



• Extended BASIC Language 

• Advance Graphics 

• CRT Built-in Display 

• Magnetic Tape Cartridge for Storage 



CALCULATORS BY 



[VI 



HEWLETT 
PACKARD 



HP-41C Calculator, "A System" . . $244.95 
HP-32E Scientific w/Statistics ... $ 53.95 
HP-33C Scientific Programmable . . . 99.95 
HP-34C Advanced Scientific 

Programmable 123.95 

HP-37E Business Calculator 58.95 

HP-67 Handheld Fully Advanced 

Programmable Scientific for 

Business & Engineering 298.95 

HP-97 Desktop w/Built-in Printer . . 579.95 



COMMODORE PET Call for Prices 

Prices do not include shipping by UPS. All 
prices and offers are subject to change without 
notice. 



R 



ersonal 
omputer 
ys terns 



c 



s 



609 Butternut Street 

Syracuse, N.Y. 13208 

(315) 478-6800 

'232 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Listing 1 continued: 



034C C3DC01 




JHP 


034F 117706 


I 

NOFILE 


LXI 


0352 0E09 




HVI 


0354 CD0500 




CALL 


0357 C31E01 




JHP 



039C 
039F 
03A0 
03A2 
03A5 
03A6 
03A7 
03A8 
03A9 
03AA 
03AB 
03AC 
03AE 
03B1 
0363 
03B6 
03B7 
03B8 
03B9 
03BA 
03BB 
03BC 
03BP 
03BE 
03BF 
03C0 



110907 

D5 

0E0A 

CD0500 

AF 

El 

23 

4E 

23 

47 

7E 

B630 

FAC403 

FE0A 

B2C403 

57 

78 

A7 

17 

5F 

17 

17 

83 

82 

0D 

C2A903 



PRTHX ;GIVE DENSITY LIHITS. 

D,NFHSG ;TELL USER THAT THIS FILE IS NOT 

C,9 ;SAVED. 

CPM 

UHAT ;BACK TO OPTION LEVEL 



SET THE TONE ARRAYS TO THE USER'S CHOICE. BOTH THE PRIMARY 
AND SECONDARY TONE ARRAYS HUST BE SET. EITHER ONE NAY BE BLANK. 



035A 11B405 TSET LXI 


D.MSG1 




035D 0E09 


HVI 


C,9 




035F CD0500 


CALL 


CPH 




0362 110F07 


LXI 


D,INPUT1 


;PUT THE STRING HERE 


0365 0E0A 


HVI 


C,10 


;USE CP/H'S LINE INPU 


0367 CD0500 


CALL 


CPH 




036A 110E06 


LXI 


D.HSG2 


;ASK FOR SECONDARY AR 


036D 0E09 


HVI 


C,9 




036F CD0500 


CALL 


CPH 




0372 115107 


LXI 


D,INPUT2 


;PUT IT HERE 


0375 0E0A 


HVI 


C , 1 




0377 CD0500 


CALL 


CPH 




037A C31E01 


JHP 


UHAT 


,N0THING TO IT, 



SECTION TO GET THE DESIRED HAXIHUH AND MINIMUM VALUES FR0H 
THE USER. THESE VALUES UILL REPLACE THOSE FOUND BY SCANNING 
THE DATA RECEIVED FR0H THE A/D. THIS UILL BE NECESSARY FOR 
THOSE CASES UHERE A PICTURE UAS BROKEN UP INTO H0RE THAN ONE 
IHAGE (DUE TO SIZE) AND A CONSISTENT SET OF CHARACTER 
SUBSTITUTIONS IS DESIRED. 



037D 119F06 SETHAX LXI 


D.SETHX 


JTELL USER UHICH ONE TO TYPE. 


0380 0E09 


HVI 


C,9 




0382 CD0500 


CALL 


CPH 




0385 CD9C03 


CALL 


GETNUH 


;and get it. 


0388 32D307 


STA 


HAX 


;and save it. 


038B 11D006 


LXI 


D.SETHN 


;N0U DO THE SAHE FOR THE HIN VALUE 


038E 0E09 


HVI 


C,9 




0390 CD0500 


CALL 


CPH 




0393 CD9C03 


CALL 


GETNUH 




0396 32D407 


STA 


HIN 




0399 C31E01 


JHP 


UHAT 


;N0 CHECK IS HADE FOR LEGAL VALUES 



ROUTINE TO READ IN A DECIHAL NUHBER TYPED BY THE USER. THE 
RESULTING VALUE IS RETURNED IN REGISTER (A). ALL REGISTERS ARE 
USED AND NOT RESTORED. 



GETNUH 



GETNH1 



LXI 


D,INBU 


PUSH 


B 


HVI 


C,10 


CALL 


CPH 


XRA 


A 


POP 


H 


INX 


H 


HOV 


C,H 


INX 


H 


HOV 


B,A 


HOV 


A,H 


SUI 


'0' 


JH 


BADNUH 


CPI 


10 


JNC 


BADNUH 


HOV 


D,A 


HOV 


A,B 


ANA 


A 


RAL 




HOV 


E,A 


RAL 




RAL 




ADD 


E 


ADD 


D 


DCR 


C 


JNZ 


GETNH1 



D.INBUFF JINPUT BUFFER TO USE 



;use cp/h's input routine to allow 
corrections. clear the accuhulator. 
jpoint to buffer 
;and skip over both counters 
;get count anb save in (c>. 

;save resulting value in (b) 
;get a character 
;hake binary 

;legal? 

jit's ok, save it here, 
jhultiply previous total by 10. 
jclear the carry flag. 



;ADD IN NEU DIGIT. 
;D0 ALL DIGITS. 

Listing 1 continued on page 234 



APPLE II ® TRS'80 <d 

QUALITY DISK SOFTWARE 

HOME FINANCE PAK I: Entire Series $49.95 ®£) ELECTRONICS SERIES: Entire Series $259.95 ®0 





CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: This comprehensive CHECKING 
ACCOUNT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM not only keeps complete 
records, it also gives you the analysis and control tools you need to 
actively manage your account. The system provides routines for 
BUDGETING INCOME AND EXPENSE, AUTOMATIC CHECK 
SEARCH, and BANK STATEMENT RECONCILING. CRT or printer 
reports are produced for ACTUAL EXPENSE vs BUDGET, CHECK 
SEARCH DISPLAY, RECONCILIATION REPORT and CHECK 
REGISTER DISPLAY by month. Check entry is prompted by 
user-defined menus of standard purposes and recipient codes, speeding 
data entry and reducing disk storage and retrieval time. Six fields of 
data are stored for each check: amount, check no., date, purpose, 
recipient and TAX OEOUCTIBLE REMINDER. CHECK SEARCH 
routines allow searching on any of these data fields. Routines are also 
provided for CHECK SORT by date and check no., DATA EDITING 
and Report Formats. Up to 100 checks/mo. storage $39.95 

SAVINGS: Account management system for up to 20 separate Savings 
accounts. Organizes, files and displays deposits, withdrawals and 
interest earned for each account. Complete records shown via CRT or 
printer $14.95 

CREDIT CARD: Get Control of your credit cards with this program. 
Organizes, stores and displays purchases, payments and service charges 
for up to 20 separate cards. Use for credit cards or bank loans. CRT or 
printer reports $14.95 

UNIVERSAL COMPUTING MACHINE: $49.95®® 

A user programmable computing system structured around a 5 row x 
50 column table. User defines row and column names and equations 
forming a unique computing machine. Table elements can be multiplied 
multiplied, divided, subtracted or added to any other element User can 
define repeated functions commonto row or column greatly simplifying 
table setup. Hundreds of unique computing machines can be defined, 
used and stored, and recalled, with or without old data, for later use. 
Excellent for sales forecasts, engineering design analysis, budgets, inven- 
tory lists, income statements, production planning, project cost 
estimates in short for any planning, analysis or reporting problem that 
can by solved with a table. Unique curser commands allow you to move 
to any element, change its value and immediately see the effect on 
other table values. Entire table can be printed by machine pages 
(user-defined 3-5 columns) on a 40 column printer. 

COLOR CALENDAR: $29.95® 

Got a busy calendar? Organize it with Color Calendar. Whether it's 
birthdays, appointments, business meetings or a regular office schedule, 
this program is the perfect way to schedule your activities. 
The calendar display is a beautiful HI-RES color graphics calendar of 
the selected month with each scheduled day highlighted in color. 
Using the daily schedule, you can review any day of the month and 
schedule an event or activity in any one of 20 time slots from 8:00 
A.M. to 5:30 P.M. Your description can be up to 20 characters long. 
The system will also print out hard copies on your minimum 40-column 
printer. 

BUSINESS SOFTWARE: Entire Series $159.95 ®(D 

MICROACCOUNTANT: The ideal accounting system for small busi- 
nesses. Based on classic T-accounts and double-entry booking, this 
efficent program provides a ledger journal for recording, posting and 
reviewing up to 1,000 transactions per month to any one of 300 
accounts. The program produces CRT and printer reports covering: 
Transaction Journal Balance Sheet 
Account Ledgers Income and Expense Statement 
Includes a short primer on Financial Accounting. Requires 48K Ram 
$49.95 

UNIVERSAL BUSINESS MACHINE: This program is designed to 

SIMPLIFY and SAVE TIME fai the serious businessman who must 

periodically Analyze, Plan and Estimate. The program was created using 

our Universal Computing Machine and it is programmed to provide the 

following planning and forecasting tools. 

CASH FLOW ANALYSIS SALES FORECASTER 

PROFORMA PROFIT& LOSS SOURCE AND USE OF FUNDS 

PROFORMA BALANCE SHEET JOB COST ESTIMATOR 

REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT INVENTORY ANALYSIS 

Price, including a copy of the Universal Computing Machine . . .$89.95 

BUSINESS CHECK REGISTER AND BUDGET: Our Check Register 
and Budget programs expanded to include up to 50 budgetable items 
and up to 400 checks per month. Includes bank statement reconciling 
and automatic check search (48K) $49.95 



LOGIC SIMULATOR: SAVE TIME AND MONEY. Simulate your 
digital logic circuits before you build them. CMOS, TTL, or whatever, if 
it's digital logic, this program can handle it. The program is an 
interactive, menu driven, full-fledged logic simulator capable of 
simulating the bit-time response of a logic network to user-specified 
input patterns. It will handle up to 1000 gates, including NANOS, 
NORS, INVERTERS, FLIP-FLOPS, SHIFT REGISTERS, COUNTERS 
and user-defined MACROS. Up to 40 user-defined random, or binary 
input patterns. Simulation results displayed on CRT or printer. Accepts 
network descriptions from keyboard or from LOGIC DESIGNER for 
simulation $159.95 

LOGIC DESIGNER: Interactive HI-RES Graphics program for 
designing digital logic systems. A menu driven series of keyboard 
commands allows you to draw directly on the screen up to 1 5 different 
gate types, including 10 gate shape patterns supplied with the program 
and 5 reserved for user specification. Standard patterns supplied are 
NAND, NOR, INVERTER, EX-OR, T-FLOP, JK-FLOP, D-FLOP, 
RS-FLOP, 4 BIT COUNTER and N BIT SHIFT REGISTER. User 
interconnects gates just as you would normally draw using line graphics 
commands. Network descriptions for LOGIC SIMULATOR generated 
simultaneously with the CRT diagram being drawn $159,95 

MANUAL AND DEMO DISK: Instruction Manual and demo disk 
illustrating capabilities of both programs $29.95 

MATHEMATICS SERIES: Entire Series $49.95 ® 

STATISTICAL ANALYSIS I: This menu driven program performs 
LINEAR REGRESSION analysis, determines the mean, standard 
deviation and plots the frequency distribution of user-supplied data 
sets. Printer, Disk, I/O routines $19.95 

NUMERICAL ANALYSIS: HI-RES 2-Dimensional plot of any 
function. Automatic scaling. At your option, the program will plot the 
function, plot the INTEGRAL, plot the DERIVATIVE, determine the 
ROOTS, MAXIMA, MINIMA, INTEGRAL VALUE $19.95 

MATRIX: A general purpose, menu driven program for determining the 
INVERSE and DETERMINANT of any matrix, as well as the 
SOLUTION to any set of SIMULTANEOUS LINEAR EQUATIONS. 
$19.95 

3-D SURFACE PLOTTER: Explore the ELEGANCE and BEAUTY of 
MATHEMATICS by creating HI-RES PLOTS of 3-dimensional surfaces 
from any 3-variable equation. Disk save and recall routines for plots. 
Menu driven to vary surface parameters. Hidden line or transparent 
plotting $19.95 

ACTION ADVENTURE GAMES: Entire Series $29.95 ® 

RED BARON: Can you outfly the RED BARON? This fast action game 
simulates a machine-gun DOGFIGHT between your WORLD WAR I BI- 
PLANE and the baron's. You can LOOP, DIVE, BANK or CLIMB-and 
so can the BARON. In HI-RES graphics $14,95 

BATTLE OF MIDWAY: You are in command of the U.S.S. HORNETS' 
DIVE-BOMBER squadron. Your targets are the Aircraft carriers, Akagi, 
Soryu and Kaga. You must fly your way through ZEROS and AA FIRE 
to make your DIVE-BOMB run, In HI-RES graphics $14.95 

SUB ATTACK: It.s April 1943. The enemy convoy is headed for the 
CORAL SEA. Your sub, the MORAY, has just sighted the CARRIERS 
and BATTLESHIPS' Easy pickings.But watch out for the 
DESTROYERS -they're fast and deadly. In HI-RES graphics $14.95 

FREE CATALOG-AM programs are supplied on disk and run on Apple 
II w/Disk 8t Applesoft ROM Card & TRS-80 Level II and require 32K 
RAM unless otherwise noted. Detailed instructions included. Orders 
shipped within 5 days. Card users include card number. Add $1.50 
postage and handling with each order. California residents add 6'/:% 
sales tax. Foreign orders add $5.00 postage and handling. 

142 Carlow 
SPECTRUM P-O.Box 2084 
SOFTWARE Sunnyvale, CA 94087 

FOR PHONE ORDERS:(408)7384387 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED. 




Circle 158 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 233 



Circle 159 on inquiry card. 




CTC-101 Terminals 

we're overstocked on these 
powerful, reliable standard 
data terminals. The GT-101 is 
Z-80 based with standard 
printer port, user-settable 
clock, 8 user-programmable 
function keys and much 
more! Order Today! Limited 
Quantities. 

Reg. S999.00 S7QC 

Clearance Price Only / <j D 




CTA ADC-16C 

16 Channel variable 

a-d Board! 

can be used for 
Position /Pressure /Photo- 
electric/and Temperature 
Measurements, and as a 
computerized Volt/Ohm 
meter. Board is shipped with 
operating manual, software, 
and a test conducter. For use 
with Apple ll/lll. ._--,. 

Introductory Price I /<j 

NOTE: Soon To Be Available - 
CTA's new 16K Memory Board! 



CTA I 



COMPUTER 

TECHNOLOGY 

ASSOCIATES 



5812 cromo Drive, Suite 102 

El Paso, Texas 79912 

(915) 581-3500 

Visa/MasterCard/Diner's Club Accepted. 

TO ORDER: Send check, money order or 
credit card number and exp. date to 
Computer Technology Associates, 5812 
Cromo Drive, Suite 102. El Paso, Texas 
79912. Personal or company checks 
require two weeks to clear, credit card 
users can call with card information. 

shipping: we ship terminals prepaid by 
motor freight. Air and express delivery 
are available on all products. 

There is no handling charge. 



Listing 1 continued: 
03C3 C9 



03C4 11DD06 

03C7 0E09 

03C9 CD0500 

03CC C39C03 



03F3 0E09 
03F5 CD0500 
03F8 0E01 
03FA C30500 



RET |ALL DONE, RESULT IS IN (A). 

BADNUM LXI D.BADINP ;TELL USER TO TRY AGAIN. 

HVI C,9 

CALL CPH 

JHF GETNUH 



READ THE A/D AND AVERAGE OVER EIGHT READS TO REDUCE THE 
SCATTER THAT IS BOUND TO EXIST UITH THIS SIMPLE IMAGE 
PROCESSING SYSTEM. 



03CF 


E5 


READ 


PUSH 


H 




03D0 


C5 




PUSH 


B 




03D1 


210000 




LXI 


H,0 


;KEEP SUM HERE 


03D4 


0608 




HVI 


B,8 




03D6 


CD1604 


RLP1 


CALL 


AT0D 


|READ THE A/D 


03D9 


85 




ADD 


L 


;add VALUE TO OUR sum 


03DA 


6F 




NOV 


L,A 




03DE 


3E00 




HVI 


A,0 




03DD 


BC 




ADC 


H 




03DE 


67 




MOV 


H,A 




03DF 


05 




DCR 


B 




03E0 


C2D603 




JNZ 


RLPt 




03E3 


0603 




MVI 


B,3 


;nou divide by s 


03E5 


A7 


RLP2 


ANA 


A 


;CLEAR CARRY 


03E6 


7C 




MOV ■ 


A,H 




03E7 


1F 




RAR 






03E8 


67 




MOV 


H,A 




03E9 


7D 




MOV 


A,L 




03EA 


IF 




RAR 






03EB 


6F 




MOV 


L,A 




03EC 


05 




DCR 


B 




D3ED 


C2E503 




JNZ 


RLP2 




03F0 


C1 




POP 


B 




03F1 


El 




POP 


H 




03F2 


C9 


; 


RET 
JTILITY 


ROUTINES.. 





ASK A MESSAGE POINTED TO BY (DE), AND GET A ONE CHARACTER 
RESPONCE. THE RESP0NCE IS RETURNED IN (A). ALL REGISTERS 
ARE USED AND NOT RESTORED. 



ASK 



MVI C,9 

CALL CPM 

MVI C,1 

JMP CPM 



JPRINT MESSAGE AND GET RESPONCE 



CHECK THE KEYBOARD TO SEE IF ANYTHING IS READY. ON SYSTEMS 
THAT LATCH THE OUTPUT FROM THE TERMINAL, THE USER JUST HITS 
A KEY AND THEN THIS UILL DETECT IT. ON OTHER TYPES (LIKE MINE), 
THE USER MUST HOLD THE KEY DOUN UNTIL THIS ROUTINE IS CALLED. 
A MINOR INCONVENIENCE. ALL REGISTERS EXCEPT (A) ARE SAVED. 
IF A KEY IS TYPED, THEN THIS UILL RETURN UITH THE CARRY FLAG 
SET. 



;CHECK THE KEYBOARD FOR ANYTHING 



03FD C5 CHECK PUSH 


B 


03FE E5 


PUSH 


H 


03FF D5 


PUSH 


D 


0400 OEOB 


MVI 


C, 11 


0402 CD0500 


CALL 


CPM 


0405 Dl 


POP 


D 


0406 El 


POP 


H 


0407 CI 


POP 


B 


0408 IF 


RAR 




0409 C9 


RET 





SEND ONE CHARACTER TO THE LIST DEVICE. THE CHARACTER MUST BE 
IN REGISTER (E) AND ALL REGISERS (EXCEPT A) ARE SAVED. 



Listing 1 continued on page 236 



040A C5 


PRINT 


PUSH 


B 


JPRINT (E) 


040B E5 




PUSH 


H 




040C D5 




PUSH 


D 




040D 0E05 




MVI 


C,5 




040F CD0500 




CALL 


CPM 





234 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



"WITH THE UCSD p-SYSTEM,™ 
WE CAN WRITE ONE APPLICATION 
THAT GOES FROM APPLE TO ZENITH? 



HARRY BLAKESLEE, President, Denver Software 




UCSD p-System and UCSD Pascal are trademarks of the Regents of the University of California. 



Our business is bigger and 
better than ever. 
A lot of the credit for that 
goes to the UCSD p- System software 
from SofTech Microsystems. It's 
given us ten times the market we 
used to have. 

We can write a single, 
sophisticated applications program 
with the UCSD p-System — like our 
financial management package— and 
it just keeps on running. On Apple, 
Commodore, Ohio Scientific, Texas 
Instruments, Zenith, and more. 
That's the real beauty of the UCSD 
p-System. Any program you write for 
one microcomputer runs on others, 
both today and tomorrow. You protect 
your software investment, without 
restricting your hardware options. 

And with the UCSD 
p-System,you can use the language 
of your choice — UCSD Pascal,™ 
FORTRAN-77, BASIC, or assembly 
language. All are backed by SofTech 
Microsystems, a leading system 
software company who's been around 
for over a decade, who knows how 
to develop professional quality 
software, and who's committed to 
delivering it. 

Get a head start on tomor- 
row. With the microcomputer 
software that goes from "A" to "Z." 
Distribution licensing and single 
copies available. Write or call for 
details, so you can start going 
places, too. 

micRosvsTems 

Ft SUBSOWIV OF SOFTECH 

For the software that's going places. 

9494 Black Mountain Road, San Diego, 

CA 92126. (714) 578-6105 

TWX: 910-335-1594 



Circle 160 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



235 



Circle 161 on inquiry card. 



Buy By Mail 
and Save! 




INTERTECSuperBank, 32K .$2495 

64K Ram, List $3345 $2695 

64K Quad, List $3995 $3395 

NORTH STAR Horizon I 

32K DD List $2695 $1989 

Horizon I QD List $2995 $2245 

Horizon 2 32K DD.List $3095 $2289 

lntersystemDP-1 List $1749 . .$1495 




t 



CROMENCO Z-2, List $9995 .$7945 

System 64K, List $3990 $3179 

System 3 64K, List $7395 5689 

ATARI 800, List $1080 $799 

APPLE II, 16K $969 

DISK SYSTEMS 

THINKER TOYS" Discus 2D ..$939 

Dual Discus 2D $1559 

Discus 2 + 2, List $1549 $1259 

M26 Hard Disk, List $4995 . . .$3949 

PRINTERS & TERMINALS 

PAPER TIGERS IDS-440 $679 

With graphic option $749 

CENTRONICS 730-1, List $795 $595 

737, List $995 $789 

704-9 180 cps $1495 

703-9 180 cps $1569 

T I 810,List S1895 $1489 

NECSPINWRITER5530 $2395 

NEC SPINWRITER 5515 $2395 

DIABLO 630 List $2711 $2399 

INTERTEC 

Intertube III.List $895 729 

Emulator $729 

Televldeo 912C $679 

920C $799 

Hazeltine1420 $789 

1500 $845 

Soroc 120, List $995 $689 

Soroc140 $994 

Most items in stock for immediate delivery. Factory sealed cartons, 
w/toll factory warranty. NYS residents add appropriate sales tax. 
Prices do not include shipping. VISA and Master Charge add 3%. 
C.O.D. orders require 25% deposit. Prices subject to change without 
notice. 

Computers 
Wholesale 

P.O. Box 144 Camillus, NY 13031 
S. (315)472-2582 



Listing 1 


conti 


tued: 






0412 D1 






POP 


D 


0413 El 






POP 


H 


0414 C1 






POP 


B 


0415 C9 






RET 





READ THE A/D. IT IS ASSUHED HERE THAT THE SETUP IS SIMILAR 
TO THAT PROPOSED IN DDJ, OCTOBER 1979. HERE, THE H/A IS 
CONNECTED TO OUTPUT PORT 2, AND THE RESULT OF THE COMPARITOR 
IS READ FROH INPUT PORT 2, BIT 0. FOR THE DIGITAL GROUP SYSTEN, 
THE INPUT DATA UILL BE INVERTED BY THE CPU CARD. IF YOURS DOES 
NOT UCRK THIS UAY, CHANGE THE 'JNZ' TO A 'JZ' IN THE CODE BELOU. 
THE RESULTING VALUE IS RETURNED IN IA) AND ALL OTHER REGISTERS 
ARE SAVED. THIS PROCEDURE USES A BINARY SEARCH TECHNIQUE TO FIND 
THE VALUE OF THE VOLTAGE INPUT TO THE A/D. 



0416 


C5 


ATOD 


PUSH 


B 


;READ A/D (.34 MS PER READ AVERAGE) 


0417 


AF 




XRA 


A 


;READ THE A/D 


0418 


0680 




HVI 


6,128 




041A 


0E08 




HVI 


C,8 




041C 


80 


ADLOOP 


ADD 


B 


;SET THE D/A 


041D 


D302 




OUT 


2 




041F 


F5 




PUSH 


PSU 




0420 


DB02 




IN 


2 


;READ AND CHECK BIT DO 


0422 


E601 




ANI 


1 




0424 


C22A04 




JNZ 


ADI 


;*** SYSTEM DEPENDENT **» 


0427 


F1 




POP 


PSU 




0428 


90 




SUB 


B 


;T00 FAR, BACK OFF 


0429 


F5 




PUSH 


PSU 




042A 


78 


ADI 


MOV 


A,B 


;next BIT 


042B 


1F 




RAR 






042C 


47 




MOV 


B,A 




042D 


Fl 




POP 


PSU 




042E 


OD 




DCR 


C 


;D0 ALL 8 BITS 


042F 


C21C04 




JNZ 


ADLOOP 




0432 


CI 




POP. 


B 




0433 


C9 




RET 







BINARY TO ASCII ROUTINE 

THIS ROUTINE UILL CONVERT A 16 BIT BINARY NUMBER INTO ASCII 
ACCORDING TO A SPECIFIED RADIX VALUE. THE DIGITS USED ARE: 
0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,A,B,C,D,E,F,G,H,I,J,K ETC 

TO USE: 

HL=ADDRESS OF A BUFFER FOR THE RESULTING ASCII DIGITS 

DE=CONTAINS THE 16 BIT NUMBER TO CONVERT 

B =THE NAXIMUM LENGTH OF THE BUFFER 

C =THE RADIX TO USE (2,8, 16, .. .ETC) 

ON RETURN, THE CARRY FLAG IS SET IF AN OVER-FLOU OCCURED 
(BUFFER UAS TOO SHALL). 



0434 


3E30 


BTOA 


HVI 


A,'0' 


JADJUST THE RADIX FOR ASCII CONVERSION 


0436 


81 




ADD 


C 




0437 


FE3B 




CPI 


'9' + 2 




0439 


DA3E04 




JC 


BT0A1 




043C 


C607 




ADI 


7 




043E 


4F 


BT0A1 


MOV 


C,A 








; BLANK 


OUT THE BUFFER 


SPACE 


043F 


78 




MOV 


A,B 




0440 


3620 


BT0A2 


MVI 


■V ' 




0442 


23 




INX 


H 




0443 


3D 




DCR 


A 




0444 


C24004 




JNZ 


BT0A2 




0447 


2B 




DCX 


H 








; CONVERT THE 


NUMBER NOU. 


0448 


3630 




MVI 


N,'0' 


|ZER0 OUT THE FIRST DIGIT. 


044A 


7A 




MOV 


A,D 


JCHECK FOR ZERO 


044B 


B3 




ORA 


E 




044C 


C8 




RZ 






044D 


34 




INR 


M 


Listing 1 continued on page 




KIM 
AIM 



ANALOG INTERFACES 

Industrial, Scientific, Laboratory, 
or Commercial Microcomputer Users- 
industrial quality data conversion boards are available for 
APPLE, S-100, PET, TRS-80, AIM, and KIM systems. 
Tecmar can provide individual boards, data conversion 
subsystems, or complete Data Conversion Systems. 
Tecmar's growing productline offers outstanding features, 
meticulous engineering, exceptional documentation, and 
a seven year record of proven reliability. 



TRS-80 



Tecmar's new Analog to Digital Converter Series (AD-200) 
is designed to meet sophisticated data acquisition needs. The 
board accommodates various precision A/D modules made 
by Analogic and Data Translation. These modules are easily 
interchanged to provide options such as 12, 14, or 16 bit 
accuracy; 125 KHz throughput; variable ranges and gains. 
AD212 S-100 A/D and Timer Board $695 

AD211 Apple A/D Board $495 

AD-200 Features 

• 12 bit accuracy and resolution standard 

• 30 KHz conversion rate standard 

• 16 single-ended or 8 true differential inputs • jumper selectable 

• External trigger of A/D 

• Output formats: Two's complement, binary, offset binary 

• Auto channel incrementing from any channel to any channel 

• Data is latched providing pipelining for higher throughputs 

• Provision for synchronizing A/Ds 

• Utilizes interrupt or status test 

• Jumper selectable input ranges: ±10V, ±5V, Oto+lOV, Oto +5V 
In addition the S-l 00 version: 

• Complies with IEEE S-100 specifications 

• Transfers data in 8 or 16 bit words 

• Provides for expansion to 256 channels 

• Is switch selectable I/O or memory mapped 

Timer Features on S-100 Board 

In addition to the A/D features, the S-100 Board contains a 
powerful timer circuit which can start A/D conversion and can 
also be used independently for time of day, event counting, 
frequency shift keying and many other applications. 



• 5 independent 16 bit counters 
(cascadable) 

• 1 5 lines available for external use 

• Time of day 

• Event counter 

• Alarm comparators on 2 counters 

• One shot or continuous frequency 



• Complex duty cycle and frequency 
shift keying outputs 

• Programmable gating and count 
source selection 

• Utilizes vectored interrupt 



outputs 



Options for AD-200 



Programmable gain up to 500 

14 bit accuracy 

1 6 bit accuracy 

100 KHz conversion rate 

125 KHz conversion rate 

Screw Terminal and Signal Conditioning panel 

• Thermocouple cold junction compensation 

• Rack mounting assembly with plexiglass cover 
Low level, wide range permitting low level sensors 
such as thermocouples, pressure sensors and strain 
gauges to be directly connected to the module input 



$ 



175 
717 
1,117 
517 
617 
250 
125 
125 
70 



TRS-80 



Apple D/A Features $295 




12 bit accuracy and resolution 

2 independent digital to analog converters 

8 parallel latched output lines 

Jumper selectable output ranges: ±10V, ±5V, ±2.5V, 

Oto+lOV, Oto +5V 

• 3 microsecond conversion time 

• Minimal software required 

• Optional 4-20 mA board available 

S-100 PET 2 TRS-80 1 

The original Tecmar data conversion boards (AD-100 and 
DAT 00) continue to solve less sophisticated conversion 
problems. These S-l 00 boards interface to the PET, TRS-80, 
AIM, and KIM through S-100 expansion interfaces. 

AD- 1 00 Features $495 



AIM 3 KIM 2 



12 bit accuracy and 

resolution 

30 KHz conversion rate 

16 single-ended or 8 true 

differential inputs (specify 

AD-100SorAD-100D) 

Minimal software required 



I/O or memory mapped 
operation for S-100 
systems - jumper selectable 
Jumper selectable input 
ranges: +10V.+5V, 
Oto +10V, 0to+5V 
IEEE S-100 



DA- 100 Features $395 



• 12 bit accuracy 
and resolution 

• 4 independent digital to 
analog converters 

• 3 microsecond settling time 

• Jumper selectable output 
ranges: +10V, ±5V, +2.5V, 



Oto +10V,0to+5V 

• I/O or memory mapped 
operation for S-100 
systems - jumper selectable 

• Minimal software required 

• IEEE S-100 

• Optional 4-20 mA board available 
Expansion board, power supply, and enclosure for PET * 250 
Expansion board and power supply for TRS-80, KIM, or AIM 1 50 



S-100 Real Time 
Video Digitizer 

Digitizes and Displays in 
1/60 sec, flicker-free 
16 Gray Levels 
Switch Selectable to 
display Black and White 
Graphics (8 pixels/byte) 
Maximum Resolution: 
512 pixels/line x 240 lines 
Minimal software 
requirements $850 



EC 



RR 



INC. 



Data Acquisition Systems and 
Video Digitization Systems Available 

23414 Greenlawn • Cleveland, OH 44122 



S-l 00 BOARDS 

8086 CPU $450 

W/vectored interrupts 

RAM $395 

8Kxl6/16Kx8 

8086 $495 

PROM-I/O 

Serial and $350 

Parallel I/O 

Parallel I/O $350 

& Timer 

'Reg. Tiademarto of Tandy Corp. 
2 Reg. Tiademaik of Commodore 
J Reg. Tiademaito of Rockwell 



TECMAR, INC. 

(216)382-7599 



Circle 162 on inquiry card. 



Circle 163 on Inquiry card. 



Are your users 
saying . . . 

"@#* It should be 
here, but where?!" 

How much valuable 
time is wasted 
searching for items 
which should have 
been indexed? 

At Last, 
Indexing for 
WordStar™ 

DocuMate™ from 
the Orthocode 
Corporation solves 
this annoying problem. 

DocuMate™ features 

■ Table of Contents 
Generation 

■ Multi-level Indexing 

■ See and See also 
references 

DocuMate can make a table 
of contents automatically from any 
Wordstar text file. In conjunction 
with a sort utility such as 
Supersort™ it can also generate 
alphabetized, multi-level sorted 
indexes. 

Just put simple DocuMate 
commands in your text file; 
DocuMate does the rest. DocuMate 
commands look like comments to 
WordStar; they have no effect on 
your printed output. 

If you publish computer manuals or 
other documentation, nothing will 
give them that professional look 
like a good index. 

DocuMate is available now on 
standard 8" CP/M™ diskettes. 

■ Manual only - $5. 

■ CP/M version - $50. 

Add $4 for shipping & handling 

>5fflH®C0DE 

The Textware Company 

THE ORTHOCODE CORPORATION 

P.O. Box 6191 

Albany, California 94706 

Phone (415) 527-9300 

TWX 910 366-7046 

WORDSTAR & SUPERSORT ARE TRADEMARKS OF 

MICROPRO INTERNATIONAL 

CP'M IS A TRADEMARK OF DIGITAL RESEARCH. 



238 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



I 



Listing 1 continued: 

044E IB BLP OCX 

044F 7B HOv 

0450 B2 ORA 

0451 CB RZ 



B 

A,E 

B 



;roll boun counter 
|is it zero yet ? 



;yes then ue are bone, 
roll up the result in odometer fashion 



0452 E5 

0453 C5 

0454 7E 

0455 3C 

0456 B9 

0457 C26C04 
045A 3630 
045C 2B 
045D 05 
045E CA7504 

0461 7E 

0462 FE20 
0464 C25404 
0467 3630 
046? C35404 
046C 77 
046D FE3A 
046F C27504 
0472 C607 
0474 77 



0475 CI 

0476 E1 

0477 C24E04 
047A. 37 
047B C9 



BT0A3 



BT0A4 



PUSH 

PUSH 

MOV 

INR 

CHP 

JNZ 

MVI 

BCX 

DCR 

JZ 

HOV 

CPI 

JNZ 

NVI 

JHP 

MOV 

CPI 

JNZ 

ABI 

MOV 



H 

B 

A,M 

A 

C 

BT0A4 

M, 0' 

H 

B 

BT0A5 

A,M 

JT0A3 
H, '0' 
BT0A3 
M,A 
"9' + 1 
BT0A5 

M,A 



JKEEP REGS 



JREACHEI RABIX LIMIT ? 

JYES, RESET THIS BIGIT TO ZERO ANB U0RK 
JON THE NEXT (IF THERE IS ONE). 

JOVER-FLOU 

;CHANGE A BLANK INTO A ZERO FIRST TIME HERE 



jCHECK FOR A BIGIT >? ANB BUMP PAST SOME 
JASCII JUNK 



RESTORE THE REGS AND CONTINUE UNLESS THE ZERO FLAG IS SET. 



BT0AS 



POP 
POP 
JNZ 
STC 
RET 



B 
H 
BLP 



|SET THE CARRY ON AN 0VER-FL0U ERROR 



MESSAGE AREA 



047C 
049E 
04 B 5 
04BF 
04B0 
04E7 
050B 
0528 
0543 
0557 
056A 
0560 
0561 
059F 
05B8 
05D4 
05FC 
060E 
061B 
062E 
064A 
065A 
065F 
0677 
069F 
06C3 
06D0 
06DD 
0702 



0D0A494D41HELL0 

2020207665 

0D0A4B656E0PTI0N 

463B46696C 

483D48656C 

4B3B536574 

503B507269 

513B517569 

523D526561 

533B536361 

543B536574 

24 

0B0A4F7074QUESTN 

0B0A506F73P0S 

0B0A446973ERR1 

0B0A456E74MSG1 

3C7265743E 

0B0A536563MSG2 

0D0A4C696ELLNGTH 

0D0A496B61MAXMIN 

3030302C20MAXV 

3030302E24MINV 

0D0A4E6F20N0NE 

0B0A4E6F20NFMSG 

0B0A536574SETMX 

0B0A4B6178 

0B0A4B696ESETMN 

0B0A4F6E6CBABINP 

0B0A3F2024 



BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 
BB 



10, '"IMAGE Inage Processing Progran' 
ver 2.00 11-05-79*' 
10,'Henue:',13,10 
File the data', 13, 10 
Help, display nenue ■ ,13,10 
Set the naxinun and hininim values' , 13 ,10 
Print the data back out', 13, 10 
Quit and return to CP/M', 13, 10 
Read the file in', 13, 10 
Scan a new page', 13, 10 
Set the tone array', 13, 10 



10,' 

10,' 

10,' 

10,' 

et>' 

10,' 

10,' 

10,' 

0, n 

0.*' 

10, 

10,' 

10,' 

10,' 

10,' 

10,' 

10,' 



Option (F,H,M,P,Q,R,S,T) ? $' 

Position paper (space)*' 

Disk or directory is full*' 

Enter density characters (nax to Kin)," 

,13,10,'Prihary -?*' 

Secondary -?*' 

Line length -?*' 

Inage scanned: Max value =' 

in value =' 

No inage was scanned.*' 

No scan data was saved for this file.*' 

Setting naxinuK and nininun values' 

Ma Kin uh ? *' 

Minimin 1 *' 

Only digits 0-9 are allowed, retry." 

? *' 



BATA STORAGE AREA 



0707 00 SCALE BB 

0708 00 NSECT BB 

0709 0400000000INBUFF BB 
070F 40 INPUT1 BB 

0710 1E NUNBR1 DB 





JSECTORS USED IN SCAN 

4,0,0,0,0,0 JNUMERIC INPUT BUFFER 

64 JMAX LENGTH OF FRIMARY TONE ARRAY 

30 JCURRENT LENGTH 

Listing 1 continued on page 240 




Aflft ^B ^P Licenced I>t Sinclair Research Lid 

Microcomputer 

for everyone at 
a Micro Price 



The LMicrofkel 



The unique 

and valuable 

components of the MicroAce 

The MicroAce is not just another personal 
computer. Quite apart from its exceptionally low 
price, the MicroAce has two uniquely advanced 
components: the powerful BASIC interpreter, and 
the simple teach yourself BASIC manual. 

The unique versatile BASIC interpreter offers 
remarkable programming advantages: 

• Unique 'one-touch' key word entry: the 
MicroAce eliminates a great deal of 
tiresome typing. Key words (RUN, PRINT, 
LIST, etc.) have their own single-key entry. 

• Unique syntax check. Only lines with correct 
syntax are accepted into programs. A cursor 
identifies errors immediately. This prevents 
entry of long and complicated programs with 
faults only discovered when you try to run 
them. 

• Excellent string-handling capability - takes up 
to 26 string variables of any length. All strings 
can undergo all relational tests (e.g. 
comparison). The MicroAce also has string 
input to request a line of text when 
necessary. Strings do not need to be 
dimensioned. 

• Up to 26 single dimension arrays. 

• FOR/NEXT loops nested up 26. 

• Variable names of any length. 

• BASIC language also handles full Boolean 
arithmetic, conditional expressions, etc. 

• Exceptionally powerful edit facilities, allows 
modification of existing program lines. 

• Randomise function, useful for games and 
secret codes, as well as more serious 
applications 

• Timer under program control. 




PEEK and POKE enable entry of machine code 
instructions, USR causes jump to a user's 
machine language sub-routine. 

• High-resolution graphics with 22 standard 
graphic symbols. 

• All characters printable in reverse under 
program control. 

• Lines of unlimited length. 

'Excellent value' indeed! 

For just $149.00 (including handling charge)you 
get everything you need to build a personal 
computer at home.., PCB, with IC sockets for all 
ICs; case; leads for direct connection to a cassette 
recorder and television (black and white or color); 
everything! 

Yet the MicroAce really is a complete, powerful, 
full-facility computer, matching or surpassing other 
personal computers at several times the price. 

The MicroAce is programmed in BASIC, and you 
can use it to do quite literally anything, from playing 
chess to managing a business. 

The MicroAce is pleasantly straightforward to 
assemble, using a fine tipped soldering iron. It 
immediately proves what a good job you've done: 
connect it to your TV ... link it to the mains adaptor 
... and you're ready to go. 

Fewer chips, compact design, 
volume production-more power 
per Dollar! 

The MicroAce owes its remarkable low price to its 
remarkable design: the whole system is packed on 
to fewer, newer, more powerful and advanced LSI 
chips. A single SUPER ROM, for instance, contains 
the BASIC interpreter, the character set, operating 
system, and monitor. And the MicroAce 1K byte 



- a new generation of 
miniature computers 

A COMPLETE COMPUTER 
for $149.00 for 1K Kit 

Post and Packing FREE 

(Add 6% Tax for Shipments inside California) 

RAM (expandable to 2K on board) is roughly 
equivalent to 4K bytes in a conventional computer 
typically storing 100 lines of BASIC. (Key words 
occupy only a single byte.) 

The display shows 32 characters by 24 lines. 

And Benchmark tests show that the MicroAce is 
faster than all other personal computers. 

No other personal computer offers this unique 
combination of high capability and low price. 

The MicroAce teach-yourself 
BASIC manual. 

If the features of the BASIC interpreter mean 
little to you-don't worry. They're all explained in the 
specially-written book free with every kit! The book 
makes learning easy, exciting and enjoyable, and 
represents a complete course in BASIC 
programming-from first principles to complex 
programs. (Available separately-purchase price 
refunded if you buy a MicroAce later.) 
A hardware manual is also included with every kit. 

The MicroAce Kit: 

$149.00 with IK COMPLETE 

$169.00 with 2K 

Demand for the MicroAce is very high: use the 
coupon to order today for the earliest possible 
delivery. All orders will be despatched in strict 
rotation. If you are unsuccessful in constructing 
your kit, we will repair it for a fee of $20.00, post and 
packing FREE. Of course, you may return your 
MicroAce as received within 14 days for a full 
refund. We want you to be satisfied beyond all 
doubt and we have no doubt that you will be. 



280 A microprocessor 
chip, widely recognised 
as ihe best ever marie. 




■■■■■■■■■a 
■■■■■■■«■■ 
BiiiiiiiiBi; 



Your MicroAce kit 
contains... 

• Printed circuit board, with 
IC sockets for all ICs. 
Complete components set, 
including all ICs-all 
manufactured by selected 
world-leading suppliers. 
New rugged keyboard, 
touch-sensitive, wipe-clean. 
Ready-moulded case. 
Leads and plugs for 
connection to domestic TV 
and cassette recorder. 
(Programs can be SAVEd 
and LOADed on to a 
portable cassette recorder.) 
Mains adaptor of 600 mA 
at 9VDC nominal 
unregulated. 
FREE course in BASIC 
programming and user 
manual. 



JOIN THE REVOLUTION - DON'T GET LEFT 
BEHIND - ORDER YOUR MICROACE NOW!! 



Send Check, Money Order or quote your Credit Card No. to: 
MicroAce 1348 East Edinger, Santa Ana, California, Zip Code 92705. 
or phone (714} 547 2526 quoting your Credit Card Number. 



Quantity 



Description 



Unit Price 





MicroAce Kit 1K 


$149.00 






MicroAce Kit 2K 


$169.00 






Manual 


$10.00 






1K Upgrade Kit 


$29.00 




Shipmen 
add 6% 


Is inside California 
TAX 


TOTAL 





Amex. 
Diners 
Check 

Money Order 
Master Charge 
Visa 



Card No.. 



Exp. Date- 



Name. 



Address- 
City 



.Zip. 



Circle 164 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 239 



Text continued from page 222: 

collected onto the file specified in the 
initial command "filename". If this 
file already exists, it will be deleted. 
This allows the user to keep the basic 
data for processing at a later time. 
When completed, the user is returned 
to the option-selection level. Two 
possible errors may occur here: 

• "Disk or directory full". This 
means that you don't have enough 
room on the current disk to save all 
the data. Sorry, you will have to start 
over. Note that the storage space re- 
quired is 1 byte per column per line. 

• "No image was scanned". Here, 
you must scan an image before trying 
to file the data. 

H: Help Me 

The user can type H to view the 
whole menu again. Normally only 
the "option" line is printed. 

M: Set the Maximum and 
Minimum Values 

This option allows the user to 
specify what values are to be used in 
place of the actual maximum and 
minimum values in the data array. 
This is necessary when you want to 
print two separate pictures with the 
same character-substitution se- 
quence. (For example, this is the case 
when, due to its size, a picture was 
broken up into two or more sections.) 
The numbers are entered as decimal 
numerals in the range to 255. If the 
data is filed after making this change, 
the new maximum and minimum 
values will be permanent. 

P: Print the Data 

When you are ready to print the 
image, with the character- 
substitution array set and an image 
scanned, this option will give you 
time to change the paper and position 
the carriage by issuing the following 
message: 

Position paper (space) 

Hit the space bar when ready to 
begin. The program scales all of the 
light intensity levels stored so that the 
picture fits the length of character- 
substitution array entered. (Both the 
primary and secondary arrays are 
treated separately.) To terminate the 
printed listing prior to the actual end 
of the data, type any key. You are 
returned to the option-selection level. 



Listing 1 continued: 



0711 4045252423T0NE1 


DB 


'eEZ«lt;1*HI!7AXItN8»032I7*+(!',39,'-' 


,39,' ' 


072F 


DS 


34 




0751 40 INPUT2 


DB 


64 SECONDARY TONE ARRAY 




0752 1E NUHBR2 


DB 


30 JITS CURRENT LENGTH 




0753 2323232323T0NE2 


DB 


'HRHMMMI!!!!! ',39,' 


/ 


0771 


DS 


34 




0793 


DS 


&4 ;STACK AREA 




07D3 = STACK 


EQU 


« 





07D3 00 


MAX 


DB 





07D4 00 


HIN 


DB 





07D5 00 


LNGTH 


DB 





07D6 00 


LINES 


DB 





07D7 = 


BUFF 


EQU 


t 



THE F0LL0UING DATA IS SAVED ON THE FILE. 



;haxihuh value in array 
;hinihun value 
;line length 
jnuhber of lines 
;start data array here. 



0005 = 



CPU 



EQU 



;ENTRY to the system. 



07D7 




END 


100H 












042A AD1 


041C 


ADL00P 


03F3 


ASK 


0416 


AT0D 


06DD 


BADINP 


03C4 BADNUH 


044E 


BLP 


0434 


BT0A 


043E 


BT0A1 


0440 


BT0A2 


0454 BT0A3 


046C 


BT0A4 


0475 


BT0A5 


07D7 


BUFF 


03FD 


CHECK 


0005 CPM 


018C 


D01 


0197 


D02 


01A5 


D03 


0261 


11 


0283 D2 


028A 


D3 


01C2 


DELAY 


0259 


DIVLP 


027B 


DIVLP1 


02C6 ERR 


05B8 


ERRI 


02D1 


F1 


02A3 


FILE 


02DB 


FILELP 


03A9 GETNM1 


039C 


GETNUH 


047C 


HELLO 


0100 


IHAGE 


0709 


INBUFF 


017D INLP 


026D 


INLP1 


070F 


INPUT) 


0751 


INPUT2 


07D6 


LINES 


061 D LLNGTH 


07D5 


LNGTH 


07D3 


MAX 


062E 


MAXHIN 


064A 


MAXV 


07D4 HIN 


065A 


HINV 


05D4 


HSGI 


060E 


HSG2 


0677 


NFMSG 


034F N0FILE 


065F 


NONE 


0304 


NOTHING 


0708 


NSECT 


0710 


NUHBR1 


0752 NUHBR2 


0116 


OPT 


04B5 


OPTION 


0179 


0UTLP 


0269 


0UTLP1 


059F POS 


0245 


POUT 


040A 


PRINT 


024E 


PRINTLN 


0205 


PRT 


0212 PRTLP 


01DC 


PRTHX 


0581 


QUESTN 


0340 


READDN 


030F 


READF 


03CF READ 


0322 


READLP 


03D6 


RLP1 


03E5 


RLP2 


0707 


SCALE 


014C SCAN 


037D 


SETHAX 


06D0 


SETHN 


069F 


SETMX 


07D3 


STACK 


0711 TONE) 


0753 


T0NE2 


01CF 


TOUT 


035A 


TSET 


01 1 E 


UHAT 



w • cm 

MM* 

co mi \ 



s o * IN 

— n» ■» CM — 

• na»Hn 

■ nooniN 

ro co •» w rs. 



+ m rs \ i 

+ «• f~> \ * 4 

— 00 Pv s «• < 

CM GO CM M GO ( 



-HN 
I — M CO 



+ co \— — # — \ + t*y m t 

— CO +#%—*. I w © *> 4 

— •> — ps. — — i \ — © m t 

\ CO— rO©i-»CNrNCN*»M»« 

— co * (N<*nnN»oo»tti 
* co P9 No«ococo«t)«»i 

I !•>■¥»■*» K »•.»•■» < 



p*> oo * 

won 
DMn 



OOONCO I 
»00)H(D • 



■o CM t— I 



CO CO M * I * • 



— CM CM * I 



— CO M Pv 



IMHIBN • 
l*H(DNn\ 

. o co ** o ro \ 
■ oo«nN i 



+ r>. ro en m* m, ■ 

+ -■ >-< o m> r-« ■■ w 

\ \ + ora*Ha 



■ Nm- » CM «k •» «» « 

• ONnnwomoi 



■ » © CO — 

— ■ h* to \ 

■ «■* r*» o 






* PO GO H* Pv fO ~' ■ 



• NMNOWI 



» » r-j ro ro o • 



i CO CO 

' © *> 
• Pv Pv 



■ Pv »■♦■— — i s \ 



■ W M N + ' 



i oa cd »o n nn 

> » o-j ** . 

l»«(Di 



© © po - 

© ro © \ 

© © PO 



' N«ffiOO< 



» CM © CO CO I 



I * ro «* «• co »-• O ■ 

\ + ro co o co P-t *► l 

*- » » \ o co 10 co co co i 

— rv cm * «no«Hni 

I Nnn*NocoH«»' 



' n to « to cbi 

ro co <=> co i* t 

i © co m %•> co < 



, « r\ * m n co I 



• • * PN. PO 

i «-■ cm © o 

IPJPIO o 
INMOO • 



© CO 
© CO 



I CO CO «» CO 






iNNNMI 



O CO CO CO 4* ( 



ipionn*eoM*ococo( 



i cm m n po « 



240 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



yum/u. 






M1CR0 PR0C E 5S0R 

INTERFACE 
TECHNIQUES 



i 



r ly^Tnrnt. 




BUY ONE ofthese 
great professional books and 

ET ONE FREE 

(values up to $60.00) 

when you join the 
COMPUTER 
I PROFESSIONALS' 
BOOK CLUB 



Choose any one of these books at the special club discount, and 
select any other as your gift Free of Charge when you enroll: 



MICROPROCESSOR PROGRAMMING AND 
SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT By F. G. Duncan 
582069-2 Pub. Pr., $28.00 Club Pr„ $21.50 



BIT-SLICE MICROPROCESSING DESIGN By J 

Mick & J. Brick 
417/814 



Pub. Pr, $18.50 



Club Pr. ,514.50 



COMPUTER DICTIONARY AND HANDBOOK, 

3/e By C. J. Sippl 

582079-X Pub. Pr., $29.95 Club Pr., $24.95 

ELECTRONICS DICTIONARY By J Markus 
404/313 Pub. Pr., $24.50 Club Pr, $19.50 

MICROCOMPUTER INTERFACING By B. Artwick 
789/436 Pub. Pr., $21.95 Club Pr„ $16.95 



SOFTWARE DEBUGGING FOR MICRO- 
COMPUTERS R y R Bruce 

582075-7 Pub. Pr., $18.95 Club Pr„ $14.25 



ENCYCLOPEDIA OF COMPUTER SCIENCE 

EditedbyA. Ralslon & C. L. Meek 

769/01X Pub. Pr„ $60.00 Club Pr., $39.95 

AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING HANDBOOK 

Edited by The Diebold Group, Inc. 

168/075 Pub. Pr., $44.95 Club Pr., $31.50 

PROGRAMMING LANGUAGES BY A B Tucker. Jr. 
654/158 Pub. Pr, $23.95 Club Pr., $16.95 

MICROPROCESSOR APPLICATIONS MANUAL 

By Motorola. Inc. 

435/278 Pub. Pr., $42.50 Club Pr., $29.50 

DATA BASE DESIGN By G. Wiederhold 
701/30X Pub. Pr., $25.95 Club Pr„ $19.95 

PRINCIPLES OF INTERACTIVE COMPUTER 
GRAPHICS, 2nd Ed. By W. M. Newman & R F. 
Sproull 
463/387 Pub. Pr., $26.95 Club Pr., $20.95 



MICROPROCESSOR INTERFACING TECH- 
NIQUES, 3/e By R. Zaks & A. Lesea 
582050-1 Pub. Pr., $25.00 Club Pr., $19.95 

THE GIANT HANDBOOK OF COMPUTER PRO- 
JECTS By the Editors of 73 Magazine 
582012-9 Pub. Pr., $15.95 Club Pr., $13.50 

PROGRAMMING THE 6502 By R Zaks 
582048-X Pub. Pr, $12.95 Club Pr., $10.95 

SOFTWARE ENGINEERING By R. W Jensen & 
C. C. Tonies 
788/367 Pub. Pr., $27.50 Club Pr, $19.95 

PROGRAMMING THE ZBO By R Zaks 

582049-8 Pub. Pr, $14.95 Club Pr., $12.70 

HANDBOOK OF OPERATIONAL AMPLIFIER 
CIRCUIT DESIGN By D. F Stout, edited by M. 
Kaufman 
617/97X Pub. Pr, $29.95 Club Pr, $17.50 



Why YOU should join now! 

• BEST BOOKS IN YOUR FIELD — Books are selected from a wide 
range of publishers by expert editors and consultants to give you 
continuing access to the latest books in your field. 

• BIG SAVINGS— Build your library andsavemoney too! We guaran- 
tee savings of at least 15% off publishers' list prices on every book. 
Usually 20%, 25% or even higher! 



• BONUS BOOKS— You will immediately begin to participate 
in our Bonus Book Plan that allows you savings between 
70-80% off the publisher's price of many books. 



• CONVENIENCE — 14 times a year you receive the Club Bulletin 
FREE, fully describing the Main Selection and alternate selections, 
together with a dated reply card. If you want the Main Selection, you 
simply do nothing — it will be shipped automatically. If you want an 
alternate selection — or no book at all — you simply indicate it on the 
regular reply card and return it by the date specified. You will have at 
least 10 days to decide. If, because of late mail delivery of the Bulletin 
you should receive a book you do not want, just return it at the Club's 
expense. 

As a Club member, you agree only to the purchase of four books 
(including your first selection) over a two-year period. 



McGraw-Hill Book Clubs 

COMPUTER PROFESSIONALS' BOOK CLUB 

RO. Box 582. Hightstown. New Jersey 08520 

Please enroll me as a member and send me the two books indicated, billing me for mytirst 
selection only al the discounted member's price, plus local tax, postage and handling. If 
nol satisfied, I may return the books within 10 days ond my membership will be canceled. I 
agree lo purchase a minimum of 3 additional books during the next 2 years as outlined 
under the club plan described in this ad. Membership in the club Is conlinuous but 
cancellable by me any time offer the four book purchase requirement has been fulfilled. 



Write Code # of 
FREE selection here 



Write Code # of 
FIRST selection here 



Orders from outside the U.S. must be prepaid with international money orders in U.S 

dollars. 

Charge my a VISA a MASTER CHARGE* Exp. Dole 

Credil Card # 'MCBonk* 

Signature 

Name 

Address 

City, Stole. Zip 

Corporate Affiliation 

This order subject to acceptance by McGraw-Hill. All prices subject to change without 
notice. Offer good only to new members. A postage ond handling charge is added to oil 
shipments. P3948B 



IttVIVfRfVPI* 



mbbbbbbmbmbmbbmbmbmmmbmbmmmbbbb 

tBBBBBBBHj«k»«aBMB»-iMBMBBBfN. +■ IN O * < 
iMBMMMMBOtvtMBMBi-tMMMCMr^i-iroeOC 
IBBanBa«B*»BB.aBM0TO«B«B«BI>4«»rMrO«»« 

i«=.ro»^«*»«i*»*i»i--ir-ir\M*«»or*jo< 
ioommmm*>-hoo» rs. — r» cm «*■»*-• ro • 

i»-«i-)«»*««*ooro*t+"' " « » pi n « i 

iN«t«MHCJO n + w -■ — — v ■_■ ro «»> I 

i ■■ n mm m» «-« r-. ro ■* — — rs. ~. — \ *._•-#( 
i • m n • » m w - -. I — +»\ r- + mo i 

> IB a» ■■ MM MB i— ■ 0> 1 I I rv ■-• «— CM s f*S I 

IMBmbummmbo-o — \ 1 S w NHM +1 

IBBjMBMBjMBjMBjMBjMBtO-t- ) 1 T _ ** Op \ < 

lHH«NHB*OMw — ' 1 w q « .. ( 

IMBm*mb«*0*~ + \ I — >• ^ + «B> \ \ ■ 



# O MB M I 



i cm *» *► l*s * 



I «4 •» CM M O CM • 



i «« m r- \ » • 
ro •» m o •» 



■b. — o rv 



i — • \ ■ 

— • — ■ 



i cm ■*- 

> m + ■ 



cm ro * 



• »*■■}*■ *»H*»o*»*»aB**j«Ba>M«»«»orv 



CM * 

O * 






I ■■ t4 *•> O — • s I 4-mmmmmbmbmbmmmbmb 

IBBMh) v I + <*««MMM«N 

I MB MB !-• (^J I S -'«»>«•■■■■■ 

i »-• m m i-i i i<— rsro«»»<iMBBBMBBB** 

i mi m m — s — r^>->t-ir v t-4CM>->oo4 i 

I HN (M — V wHMH*t«-fNt« 

i MM MM » Iv * N M M # — \ I I l\ 
~ > CM + — I 



CM . 



CM 



trots « osmjoiN" — 

<r^\ s WMHM"»W»w. 

irv l — 'NUNHMOHN' 



■ *» •* — i 



i »-i ro v i 



— rv m i 
+ cm ro i 

* O * i 



■ CM CM r» — 



— I o — • 



l~^ — MB ■ 



I MBJ MB O MB I 



© O O O ■• — I 

' # + M O ■•■ N I 

■ — s >~> ft « CM * 

s \ — + — rv ■ 

v I \ —.—,—. I 

I I X \ -s — I 

\ \ \ \ — - CM I 



Q: Quit and Return to CP/M 

This returns control directly to 
CP/M. If you want to save the col- 
lected data, this must be done prior to 
quitting the program. 

R: Read In the File 

The current disk will be searched 
for "filename. img", as specified in the 
initial command. If it is found, the en- 
tire data file will be read into 
memory. The maximum and mini- 
mum values associated with the data 
will be printed. If the file cannot be 
found, then an appropriate message 
will be printed and the user will be 
returned to the option-selection level. 

S: Scan a New Page 

The length of the scan line will be 



asked first. Type in the decimal num- 
ber of characters per line (1 to 255). 
You will be given a chance to position 
the paper before the scan is started. 
Hit the space bar to begin. The pro- 
gram will scan over the image in the 
print device until 255 lines have been 
scanned or a key has been hit. The 
maximum and minimum values read 
from the A/D converter are printed, 
and control is returned to the option- 
selection level. 

T: Set the Tone Array 

This is the heart of the processing 
system. For each column position, up 
to two characters will be typed to 
represent the A/D-determined inten- 
sity at this point. To accomplish this 
character substitution, two tone 



arrays are used. A primary tone array 
is always used and consists of up to 
sixty-four characters chosen by the 
user. They are entered in the order of 
maximum darkness to minimum 
darkness. (Minimum darkness is 
usually a space.) A secondary tone 
array can also be given for over- 
striking characters to achieve greater 
density variation. This array, if 
given, is generally the same length as 
the primary array, although this is 
not required. The program will deter- 
mine which character to use for any 
given value read from the A/D con- 
verter by the procedure: 

SCALE = (MAX-MIN)/N 
INDEX = (VALUE-MIN)/SCALE 
if INDEX > N-l then INDEX =N-1 

where: 

MAX = the maximum integer value 

in data. 

MIN = the minimum integer value 

in data. 

N = the integer number of 

characters in the tone array. 

VALUE = the integer value read 

from the A/D converter for this 

position. 

SCALE = the integer scale factor to 

use. 

INDEX = the integer index into the 

tone array (0 to N-l). 

The result of these computations 
(INDEX) specifies which of the N 
characters in the tone array will be 
used. A refers to the first (or maxi- 
mum density) character and (N-l) 
refers to the last available character 
(the minimum density). Note the 
value of (INDEX) is prevented from 
being greater than (N-l). 

Integer arithmetic is used for all 
computations and, as such, the num- 
ber of characters in the tone array 
affects the scale factor used. If the 
number of characters in the tone 
array is not an even divisor of the 
maximum-to-minimum variation, 
then the truncation that occurs in 
computing the scale factor has the 
effect of extending the minimum-den- 
sity character until the number is an 
even divisor. This can cause large 
blank areas to appear in the final 
printout. 

The tone arrays are entered using 
CP/M's buffered input routine. This 
means that all normal correction keys 
can be used on mistakes. Type a car- 
riage return to end the line. To skip 



242 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 




Please send your free software catalog. 

(Check which software is of particular interest) 

D C COMPILER. Optimized native code for VAX 11/780, PDP-11, LSI-11, Z80, 
8085, 8080. Full C language as defined in Kernighan and Ritchie, with com- 
prehensive portable library. Cross compilers available. Runs under VMS, 
IAS, RSX-11D, RSX-11M, RSTS/E, RT-11, UNIX, Idris, CDOS, CP/M. From $600 

□ IDRIS OPERATING SYSTEM. System calls and file system identical to 
UNIX V6, including pipelines. Utilities include shell, editor, assembler, 
loader, archiver, compare, copy, grep, etc., plus system utilities for file 
system maintenance. Runs on LSI-11, PDP-11. From $1000. 

□ PASCAL COMPILER. Optimized native code for VAX 11/780, PDP-11, 
LSI-11, Z80, 8085, 8080. Full Pascal language as defined in Jensen and 
Wirth, with standard library. Includes C compiler and portable library, 
permitting intermixed C and Pascal. Cross compilers available. Runs 
under VMS, IAS, RSX-11D, RSX-11M, RSTS/E, RT-11, UNIX, Idris, CDOS, 
CP/M. From $750. 



Name. 



Company.. 

Street 

City 



.State. 



-Zip. 



Idris is a trademark of Whitesmiths Ltd. 
UNIX is a irademark of Bell Laboratories. 
CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research Co. 



VMS. RSX-11, RT-11. RSTS/E. VAX. 
PDP-11, LSI-11 are trademarks of Digital 
Equipment Corporation. 



Whitesmiths, Ltd. 

Software for srownups. 

(212)799-1200 

RO.B. 1132 Ansonia Station, New York, N.Y. 10023 



Prinary - "8EZi»;l*#B7AJ!«NBi032I7*+( ! '-' " 

Secondary-"««»#»«»«!! !!! 

Table 2: The primary and secondary image-tone character arrays, with high- 
intensity correspondence increasing from left to right. 



the secondary tone array, just type a 
return. This doubles the output speed 
but won't allow overstrike on certain 
characters. 

Setting the Tone 

To help me decide which characters 
to choose for the substitution arrays, 
I wrote a simple program (though it's 
not included here) that took the char- 
acter set as a dot matrix and looked at 
all overstruck combinations of two 
characters. The following algorithm 



was used to determine the resulting 
intensity from each combination: 

I(i,j,k,l)=RCI.[P(i,J,k) + {S(i,j,D 
-RCI*P(i,j,k)}] 

INTENSITY(k,l)=sum I(i,j,k,l), 
i = l to n, j = l to m 

where: 

INTENSITY(k,l)= intensity value 
for character "k" printed over 
character "1". 
P(i,j,k)= primary character num- 



■}>■■»■■»■ 



- U M UU . 

mWmmO«'-+ > •— » *»NJ 

.WWWOWM-+ I to 1 *SI M 

.ons-oro**** s t— i » m 

.■b>mm«=»*omvi» I ro t W-sJ 

U VVJNJ 



WWWWWW 



. +■ I ■«-■*- •••BMMMmMMMM* 

. # I ■«-■•. '■■♦■mMMmMMMMMMmMMMMMMMM 

SJ *■ ■+ • « \JM"\JM , «JNJ\J\JNJNJ'SJ>JSJNJNJNJNJ#NJ 

■sj \J# "SJ + MMNJMSJNJNJMNJNJNJNJNJNJNJNJVJVJNJ 

i SJ M 







* 




o 




VJ 


O 


VJ 


VJ 


« 


1 


ro 






VI 




* 












VJ 


VJ 


* 






VI 






VJ 


VJ 




VJ 


VJ 


VJ 




VJ 


VJ 


VJ 




VJ 


VJ 




VI 






w 


VI 


VI 


C-J 


VI 


C-J 


♦ 


VI 










* 




* 




* 




VI 


■*- 




VI 








VI 




VI 








VI 


VI 




VI 


VI 


VI 


VI 




VI 


VI 


VI 


M 


















































































VI 


VI 


-J 


M 






_, 






M 


M 


h) 


M 


M 


_ 


_, 


M 


M 


_, 


_ 




_, 






_ 


_, 




_, 


fc, 




-s, 


M 


M 


_, 


r-> 


M 


h) 


fc, 


M 


M 


_, 


_, 


M 


_ 


_, 


_ 




„ 


„ 




























00 


CO 


03 


CD 


X 


x 


X 


00 


co 


03 


CO 




CO 


MB 


SB 


*B 


SB 


sb 


MB 


MB 


<BJ 


M 


+* 


M 


B4 


CO 


00 


M 


VI 




VI 


VI 


VI 


VI 






SB 




MB 






SB 


as 


m 


SB 


SB 


MB 


<m 


X 


X 


m 


X 


sb 


X 


X 


MB 


03 


CO 


MB 


SB 


SB 






SB 


SB 


■B 


■B 


MB 


MB 


MB 


MB 


MB 


MB 


VI 




VI 




VI 


VI 


•"* 


SJ 


•SJ 


• 


s» 


■ 


SB 


■ 


■ 


■ 


mb 


MB 


MB 


sb 


MB 


MB 


sb 


MB 


mb 


X 


M 


x 


X 


CO 


* 


m 


SB 


SB 


■ 


SB" 


■ 


■B 


■B 


■B 


«B) 


MB 


MB 


MB 


MB 


VI 


VI 


* 


* 
































CO 


O 


00 


x 


co 


X 


X 


CO 


o 


«, 


t-j 


co 


m 


ft) 


BB 


MB 


BB 


m 


!fj 


MP 


MB 


« 


MP 


MP 


MP 


PJ 


VI 


VI 


* 


* 


VI 










SB 




MB 




mb 


■1 


mb 




MB 


X 




t-J 


t-J 




00 


O 




o 












BB 


BB 


BB 


BB 


BB 




MB 














VI 


VI 




VI 


VI 






VI 


MB 






MB 


MB 




SB 




mb 


X 




w 




Cm 




o 


t-J 


<-J 






© 


VI 




sb 




SB 




SB 


■B 




MM 


MB 


■B 


MB 


MB 


BB 


MB 










VI 


VI 




VI 








• 


MB 


mb 


■1 


sb 




CD 




o 


OJ 




c~i 


OJ 








* 


w 




o 




BB 


























VI 


VI 


* 




VI 






VI 


a* 




MM 


SB 


bb 


mb 




mb 


MB 




© 


t-J 


C-J 






VI 


+ 






* 


* 








t-J 


C-J 


X 


X 


IX 


M 


M 


•BJ 


■B 


MB 


MB 


MB 


MB 


VI 


VI 


4- 




VI 






VI 


bb 




MB 


mm 


MB 


mm 




MM 


X 


O 


t-1 


t-J 




VI 


VI 


VI 


* 


* 






■*- 










VI 


(-J 


© 


*■* 


M 


•X 




MM 


MB 


MB 


MB 


MB 








VI 




VI 




VI 


MB 


MB 




mb 


SB 






SB 


m 


o 


o 


t-J 


VI 






VI 




VI 


■1- 


* 


-f- 






VI 


4- 






OJ 




M 


«-« 


+4 




MB 


MM 


MB 


MB 




VI 


* 




■NJ 






VI 




SB 




■1 


• 




■1 




CO 




o 


t-J 


VI 




VI 


VI 










VI 


* 


* 








VI 






















VI 


VI 




VI 


VI 






VI 


SB 




MB 


at 




at 




M 






C-J 








VI 


VI 


VI 






VI 






VI 










VI 




OJ 


CO 




MB 


MB 


MB 


MB 


MB 






VI 


VI 



N--JBBBBBMWOI 
imMBMBBMCOCDW' 
iNMMBlBJBJWaSHCOi 
iMMBBJBCDCDHNa' 



. C-J 00 M M I 



■ t-J t-J VI 
. t-J K> ■— 

■ t-J M VI 

■ «* t-J i— i 
p O t-J i— 



■ t-J # t-J t-J VI « 



' t-J t-J t-J VI ' 



» t-J O O ' 



o CO ft VI I 



i vi sj + — — 



SJUUOCOBCDBI 



m U KJ * CO CO CO 

■ O O I 

iOU I 



t-J O O t-J t-J 



00-Ot-JVI»»+- 
•* t-J CJ O — VI « -4- ■ 

w e u w u n vi + - 

OOt*Ot-Jt-Jt-JVI 
OOOMMOUi-4 

t-Jt-Jt-Jt-Jt-JOhJi— I 



I BB M CO MM - 



i t-J ro vi * sj 



* sj sj 



mobs s i 



>UM SSI 



* ■» sj 

« SJ SJ 

« B) SJ 

* * SJ 



iSJSJSJMBaaOBBBBMBaBI 

1SJSJ«B4COOJMMBMMBI 

VJVIVIMfOOCDMBMBMBI 

1MMSJHNOCOHBBI 

i vj — i vniownsssi 

1MMMCONCOCOHSSI 
ISjMtOUMHHSSI 
1 \J MM (J (J 
ImSIM«OCO»«HS)S)B) 
I M m « <BCD<MCO«HB)S) 
mMMCONBBSSSS 
1MMMHSMCONBBB 

-J — *COMB<«lMMMMBMB 
VI VI SJ0OSBBCOB4SBBSB 
VI VI * MBBBB*B«k»4IMBMB 

IMMtCOSSSCSI 



i O t-J i 
O t-J I 



] SJ SJ M >-t >-t • 



SB MB MB M CO O I 
MB MB M CO I 



I M M # ■• a # ■ 
I M M « - - # I 
I m M • « M M i 



(O SJ a + ■*■ 



SSSSSNHNOIO 



M M CO 

N H N 

M M M 

M COCO 

H HO) 

CO ■*> ■»» 

oo «• oo 



I t-J o 
i o oj 






I M M M t-J VI 



t-J t-J t-J 1— — 1 -4- . 

O O C-J ■— ■— VI 

U U N M N * • 

O O t-J VI K) VI 

■ o o c»i sj sj * ■ 

<• O KJ » » — • 

I t-J O t-J * + ■- - 

I N N UN m « ' 



1 U O SJ — . — \ I \ 

i W w M - - - - - 



VI VI * CO MB I 



isssHCOi 



' t-J t-J C-J VI — - -~ VI 



M W N « - ■ 



SJ SJ SJ SJ ( 



1 « CO CO H N • 
1 SJ 00 00 00 CO MB 
I • CD H CO IM BJ 



* CO H «• CD H 

* CD MB 0O CO M 
» 00 MB M CO M 

* 00 SB M 00 00 



SSMCOHMHHI 



•> OSBSBBBSBSBBBSBOSJI 



—.—..«■ sj o sj 

O C-J — — • » " » M W "- 

roe + ■»■* » vi vi vi — 

MO » NJ t M m M M M 

MO + MM MH WM M . 

ro ro o — i — i 



.- vi m- . 



OO OO M M 00 



MB M CO 

M oo oo 

M CD M 



CO CO 

00 M 

a> m 



M 00 00 B) ■ 



ICDMCDOCDMCOCO. 



> CO N N CO CO H » 

> N CO CO CO B CO t 

J M CO CD M CD CD + 



■ 00 MB M M 

I CDHOO 
INCOOO 
1 B4 M 00 O 

i B4 M o ro 

CO CO C-J VI 

w mu m 

MCDO M 



t-J O I 

O O I 

o o r 

oj cj I 






SJ + + » 



SJ SJ SJ SJ 



« CD BB MB 0O M ■ 

M CD S H CD S> I 
B CD • CO MB * 



i S3 N H H H CD ' 



I H N 00 CO CO H 00 ' 



I O U M M h I 

i CO M \J VJ M i 

I CO U « * VI ( 

■*> ro sj .— — i 

o « sj — — ■ • 



■O M- — - * -~ 



COOHSI 



ibbMjmbsbmooom 

ibssssshocoho 

l**BBBBMBSJIB»MBC>jajM — 



CO CO <• < 

CO *• • 

co co w < 



CD M rxi # 
M M «- + 

' MB MB O + 



- » m M » - | SI U I 

» VI M- * M- * S+t-Jl 

M M m « M « I + t*i " 

oi-tsjsjro* i • o i 

o ro vj sj ro vj \mui 

* m m h m » v ro a i 

BMM MN • SfOOl 



SJ SJ SJ SJ 4 



MM M * 0D I 
M M SJ M B* I 
VI VI VI * «» ■ 

M MMMSI 



1 CO 00 M < 

I CO CO CO - 
1 CO CO O • 



> CO 00 H H CO CO < 



IBBMBMBSBMBCOMBMCO 



* O M — i 

# MH •> I 



I — s O M ' 

i -~ — O M ' 

• m m o ro i 

I N UNU i 

I O M M ■»» I 



■ ro t-j t-j o c-j ■ 

.« « U ONM I 
' N CO « CO U H I 

'SCOBNOSl 



i t-J t-J + + 



I CO CO O MB 00 00 mi 



SJ 


VI 


_ 


M 


«k 


BB 


■p 


BB 


SB 


pp 


MB 


SB 


M 


_i 


— 


CO 


NJ 


MB 


MB 


M 


CO 


o 


«F> 


■_■ 


4> 


IS1 


«t 


■p 


■f 


■p 


CO 


V. 




■tr 


MB 


M 


M 


MB 


MB 


MB 


MB 


o 


* 


4- 


+ 




























































































VI 


M 




VI 




BB 


SB 


MB 


MB 


BB 








M 




t-J 




MB 




MB 


M 


M 


M 




C-J 




M 
















M 






M 




MB 


MB 


o 










VI 








BB 


MB 






MB 










o 








MB 




MB 




MB 


MB 
















t-J 




•Mt 






SB 


MB 


MB 






o 




+■ 




M 


VI 










MB 


MB 


SB 


MB 


MB 


MB 


MB 












MB 


MB 


MB 


MB 




MB 






M 






•Mt 






O 








M 




MB 






o 


* 






M 


VI 


VI 




o 


MB 


BB 




MB 


MB 




MB 
















MB 






MB 


MB 


M 


M 


M 






•Mt 


MB 


MB 


M 




•Ml 


MB 




M 








■o 


•» 


* 




~J 
SJ 


-•i 


VJ 


VI 


o 










































































o 


* 


** 


+ 


VI 


-.g 


VI 


C-J 


MB 


MB 


MB 


M 


MB 


M 


M 


■X 


MB 


■X 


M 


•4 


■M 


<M) 


*-* 


—t 


M 


M 


M 


pj 


pj 


CO 


M 


■X 


MB 


ea 


VI 


M 


co 


CO 


X 


M 


00 


w 


M 


X 


t-j 


+ 


SJ 


It 




























































































■sl 


—• 


•-J 


VI 


* 


* 


VI 


* 


fc 






















































































VI 






VI 


VI 




VI 


M 


VI 


VI 


VI 


M 


VI 


VI 


VI 


VI 




Vl 




VI 


* 


VI 


VI 


Sj 


M 


* 




VI 


VI 






VI 


VI 


* 








* 








ber "k", row "i", and column "]". 

= 0, if this dot is not printed. 

= 1, if this dot is printed. 
S(i,j,l)= secondary character num- 
ber "1", row "i", and column "j". 

= 0, if this dot is not printed. 

= 1, if this dot is printed. 
RCI= ribbon condition index 
(range from 0.0 to 1.0). 
n = number of rows for character 
matrix. 

m= number of columns for char- 
acter matrix. 

Using this method, I checked all 
combinations of two characters and 
made a list ranging from maximum to 
minimum darkness. (There were 4560 
in all.) The resulting intensities 
ranged from (a space over a space) 
to 27 (a # on an @). To account for 
the results of typing one dot on top of 
another, an RBI (ribbon-condition in- 
dex) was used. It works like this: for a 
new ribbon (RBI = 1.0), two superim- 
posed dots are not blacker than one 
dot. However, for an older ribbon 
(RBI < 1.0), the second dot will result 
in a darker intensity. A value of 0.75 
for RBI seems about right for a nor- 
mal ribbon. The characters I use for 
the Teletype 43 are shown in table 2. 
Note that the quotes (") at the ends 
are used here as delimiters and should 
not be typed in. 

If your printer does not use a dot- 
matrix system, there are other ways 
to objectively judge character com- 
binations. Write a simple BASIC pro- 
gram to print out a character com- 
bination and then position the photo- 
transistor over this and read the result 
with the A/D converter. Or, of 
course, you could just guess. The 
characters listed in table 2 would be a 
reasonable place to start. Experimen- 
tation is the way to find the best 
character-substitution array for your 
own printer. 

Recognition of Images 

Pictures generated by this system 
are easier to recognize if they are 
"blurred" by moving the paper or 
your head rapidly, by squinting, or 
by viewing the object from a 
distance. This has the effect of reduc- 
ing the geometric distortion caused 
by the sudden change in contrast 
from one character to the next. Such 
blurring can be automated. A simple 
procedure would be to select the in- 
tensity value at a given point by 
averaging the points around it. This 
average value is then used when 



244 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 





this screen test? 




WordStar™ does! And does it 
better than any other word proc- 
essing system. Not only do you 
get all the sophisticated features 
youd expect from a high-priced 
WP system, with WordStar you 
will always have a true screen 
image of what your printout will 
look like before you print it! 

With WordStar, you'll erase, 
insert, delete and move entire 
blocks of copy. Page breaks are 



displayed and automatically 
revised on the screen. You can 
specify enhancements like 
underlining and boldfacing, and 
much more. 

And WordStars so much 
easier to learn because of its 
unique and extensive self-help 
menus. Every typist in your 
office can be an instant screen star. 
Call (415) 457-8990 and ask 
for a copy of our WordStar demon- 



stration booklet. Remember, when 
you're the star, we're the star. 



•Requires CP/M (TM of Digital Research), 48K, terminal with addressable cursor. 



Circle 165 on inquiry card. 



kioPio, 



INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION 

The Star Maker 

MicroPro International Corporation 
1299 4th Street, San Rafael. CA 94901 
[415) 457-8990 TELEX 340388 
Sold through authorized dealers and 
distributors only. OEM inquiries invited 



BYTE February 1981 245 



""l((t(»t»«I20BN8III- "-U«««7II7«('- ' '-'((( t"'-""-'<t«III7««"-!2It- '!♦•♦!--- ------ — -.-«/--- 

'""-I723222III0IS37""" '♦7I7«««t«7I0337< "' '"I I ((♦♦♦•I2277II3INIBIHSBM02IIIX- "!♦('-'-"- " '" ' 

'-(♦•!-'"<3007<- " '♦I22«l'!U!'<7III7I3BIIIIM«XIIIIIJjmiH8BIIBBI07<-"-<*t- ' ' "'"" - ' ' """ ' 

'!»77<'-WI»»02«'"" -*I322«II 73«meM»IIIIIIIIIMMMIIII7«7II»IIIN««! '" ' " " ' 

-(7I7t(tI0«BIK»I*l 'KII'l«I0BHB07!t0IIMIIIBBBBIIIIBBBBIIIBBBIIIIHJ»«77IJIIJ3! ' ' '"""" -" 

" '-(♦♦♦•70BIH07(""-"l!l'l»7II7730H80t'-3M*»IBBBBIIIIBBBBIIIIBBBBIIIIBBBJ»»7IBIJIIIIBI(MI'- ' '((-"" --'-' 

""-♦7222I23MI037X-"' "-(730003233000I7347IIIBIIBIIIBIIIBIIIBBBIIBIIIBIJIBII7JIBIIIBJXBI2 '" ' --"- ' 

-(••tt>772Bi;Htl3t'""-(300327<730B02Billlllll||MIIBIIIIIIIBIIIBIIHBIIIBIIIBIIIIII7B37(-- 13»IIM3<-' ' 

M I '-' l«*IIIIIIIIII7il3I>20IINI<ll8l<l<IIH*3NIIIIIIH»IMIIIIIIIIIIII777777lll777MIIIIIMIItZN008«2<( '"! I I I30I7IM7777I1 1*'-"' I 

lillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllBIIM««»0BBIIBBIIIIIIIIBBBIBBJI»003300»8l<7BIIBIIIIIBIIIIJIBB7l7ll777777l77777l77IJIIIIIIIIIIII 

• IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMI77IX23IIIIIIMHIII7III»<«7«*" -.IH7ltlltlMIM7I«BHIIIMIimillMMIMIIM« I 

IIIIIIHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIItlllllllimii020MimiM7l2< .8I77777IIII4M3 B BBBBBBB 

BIIIBIIBIIIIIBIIIIIIIBIIBIIBIIIIIIIBIIBIIIBI0U7I »3(' (2MIIHHIII»BNBBHBIBIBIIIIIBI»tBII»tBII»IBHIIII 

• BBIB IHHHHHHHHIBBHHHtHHMMBBBBI ♦ XIIIIIIIII77IMBI»IIIBIIIIBIIHBMMMiHlilllll 

lllllll|llllll|BI|IIIBIIIIIIIIIIIBIIIIBBIIIIBM»llltBMI('-- <♦♦!-" "-llaBilBilUiltltBIBIBIHtHHIIBIfllllHMBMIM 

»|»HIH»MHB»»IBB«BBIIBBBIBBIIBBIIBBIIBB«BBI7IHII7( (»•«»♦('-' ' IIIIIIIIIIMII I HMMMMMM 

MMMMMIIMIIIIIMHIMIMHIMIIMIIHIIMIMIIHO - ".I22<- " !72I*e7llllllillllllllllllllllllllllllllllllllH 

|||„||| Illlllll Illl Illlllllll!*! "*20««37*+l- Ml-" " '-'4|||IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIMIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH» 

• •IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII7II7 -I- — 'I7IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIHIMI 

IIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIH70t(" ' 7HIIBIBBIBIBIBIBIBIBIBmBIBIBIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 

IIIIUIIMMI77777777777IIIIUI IMIIMiMMIIIK ' 38I4I7I477777I7777774777I7IIIIHIIIMMMIHIII 

IIII««7I«<'--" "l(" -<('-""--'-'<♦<" '18NIIie«30»l7llllll7IHHX»IHIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIIII 

tttt l''l'-' '." ....... ..,...\.-. .,,.,. "l220003H7IO«l8eeiNH»0IHIIIIIIII777777777«77777l 

I2I2I7«««"«*t«t*t«t< «♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦♦»♦♦<♦<♦*♦♦«♦♦♦♦••••«♦♦♦♦< I-" "--'" - - - "I»t<7«a»aat«a<a777123338l7tlltlt7l7llil7it6il7ltt 

00330033332I7«»a77aataaaaaaaaaaat<(«t«»*«»aaaaaaaataaaaat<-" """ - '" " 'I ♦*aaaa*aataaa7«777222308X7HIII77«M».*.*.#.7»»7»777l 
888eilH«llie»277«»««t«t»*+»*«((((((«tt»««»«<t»*««t»«"<«<»*("' ' ' ' ' ' \ (..,.. ♦7I22277»7»722300KHIIIIII777I«»I«77777777I 

»t»»HIXIIIlXII37aaattaaa«a(«(<(<(t*t«aa*aaaaatat(*taaaaaatt*a<- ...... '"••*7>I0«IH»I7>7>7I230H<7IBBItimiI«i7lllllllll 

33338M77777»e0I7«*»(»t»t»tt*t((»»*«*t»«tt»»«»«*»t«»««***»««»!-' "" ' ' ' ' I ( t>70eilII27««>7II30«I7ll7ll77MlUU7IIH7IH7 

0OOOeillII77»K»2««««((**»*U(((U«t+»»«*«*«««*»»«««t(!((t+«('-' ' . . . > "-"- ( 78IH*3I7»«II30«»ll777l777l«m»l77l77777l 

OO00aMNtNHNtXN*2***((* + < !<(<<( €++♦++♦♦++♦♦+•♦♦+♦♦< (!"-'l"ll-' '..'.' "-7I7* ! "" (2»02777IIO»IMM7lt777#.HII»777l77lll7 
»tMKIlIIHM7If.2atta(<<<<<<attata«ata*<(((«a**«*«a(<-"'"<7I7- ' - - ' "| 1303217*1'-' ' I ♦7a7II0BIIIII7l777»Ii«I4i777l777777 

88eeNIIIIII»«N32»«t»*«**<((t«*»**«4***»( ((♦♦..♦♦(♦((-"-'. 7II7C-" ' ' '"-<70M0022I7««"-" U»II0NIIBBI7BII7<mXMI77l77l77l 

""l7I30H00*0Iat*at*at*at*«a«at«aaaaa«(<(aaatt('-' — l«7I2IIt"-'"-'-(t«"2»»8»00033227«tl — - / IMIIII7M77tMIIIX777l777777 

77773Mm030«02aat*«a*«tt*aat*««t*aaaaa< (♦♦♦(- -'I»7I3302« " l«7t"I0B8»»»l0033I77tl I'- -'3X177717711111111711777777 

""'♦72332120027 •••••••7«7777«t('- IIO7I23002 -"-'♦2B8BfltllOI033II77« I' I'--'"""— I3NJI77II4IIIII7III7II77 

77777«t«<12300327777 7777IIIIII<»I-"""""— ' I (♦•7II330I07-'" -l2888MH0*003332I27tttt< ( ( I-'— ""--l8I«iIIIXIIilll77B777 

'r'l(aaIII222II7777aaaa<|"||(t77a|-'" ""— ' |(«.7II233»I»0»-" I208I88MH000033332I 7aaata! ""!'-* I IIIXIZIXI7II777777 

'"-'— 'llll(««««*(ll'-'" "--'""--M(«771122200t8l7*7»»IH«mOO»00033037»«»»t»771II7722II(I27('"»OIIIII777l77I777 

ll"t«('(«UI«('-""" ' '.'...: "'-'I<<*77III22300800*00»0M0»00I000000027 ♦«7I21I2I3»0I232«t( I "I3IXXII7I77IIIII 

-'"-((I :----<----'-'- -- "tm "— '((«»III223003300000000000000000I0I7««7 7I22I230BI00027«7«(t>IIIIIIIIIIXIXII 

.......................... ----__- t3 j,-_- | .......... | «4>7II23322000030000000330300t3I7I7»777>>II72II30mM»27I7>«I2I0IIIIIIIZXIXII 

- - - "-K'|203aWa(l'l"— "lt««77I22233333333330333333303II777»77777III2I200»00NH022I7>I0273IIXIiitltilt< 

"'74l73027«*(!' "<<<777I2332322322223222220027»«»7"77777II7II2IH00NBI32I7730"3NIXX7III7777I 

' '«( 13II3803a*»< 1 1 '---'--- 1 <«7722222I222223222II2203I7»««*4«»7I7I77I77223MOO»H3322I28I ! «7tllal7l7ailll 

" ' !2270KHINOI7««Ut(!l""(»722232222322222222220321777»««4«7I7IIIII7220«l08IN000323«0<'**«8H«»777»XI4 

....... ......... ---|!-'70228»8IIH3I777»7»»t(ni72303222322332322222233i7777»«+«7>»I7I77IlI230ro»fll«6b033e87«(*r'IIZ4»77J«III 

- "'-II>'l«»03BBNIBB032II77>tt(«I0033223233232232222032277«»<7»»»><t7»77III333008IN«l«00«N3IIII7«(7MM77*liII 

" — II0III2H»Mttl8»32III7aa200033333333323223230»03327 7a*aa*aa7aa77I33300IIB88«INNIaIIIII777BM77iiXIII 

'" ' ""*I3B3aaI0HIXtXIB8t322I23«000003332222233333l0003332I7aaaa7aa7 ••77I3300BXNNINNIB033322002770BI77KIIX 

Mill—'--"" '" "-IO0BNItl7t70l8XiliII88tl08B«ll003033333333330l003300033I7777I7>7*» III233BIXI«IIXI033323002>723NX77«XIII 

'" "I«*3»eK«8l»l8«HI7«IIIIHH88ee»8»«»«000333330ll00300000332I77II77«t«»77»ni23IX7lll7»H0303300»lI«3330N777»HX 

'"-'Ht2I30ll8ll888l*BII77«IIIIBN88BBBe«l0»00000»l033000000000322IIIII77II7III22308IBIIIlB0000008Ne2I2003«8l}7<III 

'-MUM (I — !OII3I30«8868e8KHI7l7W»IIIHH»MK8ee»nOOOM00000000030300332HI7I7«77722233»N7IIIM800«OONIIOI2330330»X»7»IX« 

-'taII7(ll<«II7l'<0tBXI20BIIM88tB8l7li8BIIXXIIIIIIBIHH8«8HIIBBmeBBH00300002IIII7aa77II200«I7IIHIIIH088I«l2I200322222NNB8Ml 

" (•I308IIIIII0I770«0BIH33B8B8«IBBK«7K«(' — I l>30KXt7«t<IZBBBBXIIIINMI«BMB8««l0033I777III3l8BIIBIBMB«BBNitl3II333322I7II0«00332 

'" — (7ItNIIII«llB23*030B80»NN8*00»N*7*2 (♦•II200»««IIKN88IIII03277« ! I '-'-'! (I2IIIIH868ll7»e2113332I77»»"«n77< !' 

' lt73«B«HBBB0II»83I2ll0»BltH0tBI7B«'" ....... ---------- -- '"28IIIH8BIt7IN2IIII2I7>«( (I '"-'—-- 

'-' ln'(OI8l»l«032>tIBB3II2033BB«««8M8("""'"" ' ' " "" ' "'2II«K«IX7IIII7««t<(' 

""-|.I33027ie«8l0322I»(«3IIOI7I230l«IO«X»3'- '-«8K»HH«7X02I7»«*(( I"— "-"-' '- 

llll"<3IMII3IO«»00330I"«08H»3II2300H8I»2 / - ' . . .... ...... '(0B8II«K3I77aaat< ( I'---" -' """." 

"-|2»H||H»0B8B«0»M«t'-t70M3II230MBII«- ■''.'' ' ' ' 't II8II«27«*«*« ( ( ( ! "--' ' - ' ' ' 

-"l'<0»l«IU»IIOO»N3*"-<7232I77233$III l20NB27aaaaa< ( |'"-" 

'|""-'(«723330IB3(-'-'l«77«<7I20»3 -I0»I7aaa«taa(( ( I-'--' ' 

"(((♦♦((♦♦(♦7I3BB3('-"(t»777I23«- (72II7»«7»*»*++++< 1 1'-'-' .......... . 

' '"" "at708«2a|'l(aa777I20887al'-' ' ' " ' " "" " '"♦•7777««««*«t*t( ( 1 1 1 '—"""-"""" ' 

' "♦ll<7002a<l!(<a.7I2tll»""'"" " ' '" ' '"■"." ' " -|73I7I7a7a7a»aaaat*(((|l" .............. , 

' ' '-♦»IM»000I»((«»77I22»KBI-"""" ' ' "" ' ' "" " ' '"<a72I77aaaaaat ♦♦(<!'" ----_--<-------- 

......... - <--'-"<|,2M7«X»I«U*77II20S8l' '-'--'-'' "" " "--(71 II7«7. •»••♦*•»♦. *♦(♦♦( I \'-'— '-■...' -" 

••«•!('(" "1"-(7«lI*B3«t+»»II20»»|- ' ' " ' "" " " '-+lII7»7»»»+«++*+++*++**+ (+ ( 1 1 "'-' '--'!(•«♦••(( 

• (((JINIJ*'" "♦•♦♦•♦-'"(20IXI07««7I230»IC" ' ,,,,.,, ,, '^}ian*************{ (♦((((♦((( 1 1 ( 1 1 1 1 1 1'***7******** 
IIIIIIIIIIIt-""-l3«3II-"-l(I0BI(0I77I230l8*"" ' ' ------ - -|«3332I7»(t( (♦♦♦♦♦*♦(♦( (( ((((( 1 1 ( II I lll'l !'♦♦((( ( 1 1 (()( 

IBIB88HXIMI<7t-'(«2»l2l-"-'(«2B80I7I230H»IM0I«*l ----- '23003327«»l 1 1 1 1 (( I !♦(( (( ( ( ( ( 1 1 ( I ( ( l( I'l I' 1 1 (♦♦♦( H 1 1 1 1 II 

2222088BI<H02083l'«2201('(t«*'"«133220»8X»ll322200»l»HNKIIIIK8l8»032II77230027«t«*t««*»«*«<(((((lt(l(((((«(<((((l(ll((( ♦♦•♦♦( 

"Illl' III I (( '-«I007"( I3l8«3II2320«lttBIMItHtIXIIIIIIIIIMt7«t77ll70«t«t>IIIII77>7<»»«>t«(lt(lt (♦♦♦•♦♦♦<< ((((I ( 1*777122222177 

-"l«I080*"-'«I3Hlie«30«l7ll7»m»7l77777llll7l77IIIH7«IH«7««772III7<7 ♦<»(((((*♦<»«♦<((((( I <( I ( +7 1 1 2223 222 1 1 1 

" -(7738N37I— ' (*720e8»0HIII4*l«888IH7777»«7IIIH37*!- -I (••♦♦( !♦((♦((( ( (I K (((((( (♦(({ II I II ( I ♦•721233332221 1 

'••71»M03I«("lt»I3000»»BBBBIBHIIIJ4XXBI»l-'-' ' ' '1 1 1 l""l"l"l'l"l'" II 1*72333300033333 

"" "'♦I770B07tl(((ll'l(I30«8»IIIIBIIIBIIIIB«' - , - >--((, ( ,|- I <723«008888«I«|8 

"-"-"-"--"-(7I7('|»(|-,j7I21.t((«20»IHimilll»t- ------ - ---.308»U027«('-'"(((I"-- ( ((♦(♦••20B88BNIIIIIXII 

—'-'-"" """II23I3BHMIt«< II' l<7I2tKIIIIIIIIIIN!- " -"""" '"<It88N8NIIIIIINNIINN»37«l " (72I««««II28IIIIM777«7I77 

7777»«tl — '-'(*»33I30IO«l«e83tI2«'!2KIX7lllllllll8« ' " l38N8»888«l»l0300»KHNNHN88IIXIXXIIIIIie<iOOI4»»«»777777777 



selecting an appropriate character to 
print. Different amounts of blurring 
can be simulated by using more or 
fewer points in the averaging process. 
Obviously, the current program 
would have to be modified to accom- 
plish this. 

Area for Further Investigation 

Due to the digital form of the data, 
an area that would be interesting to 



look into is anamorphic art. This 
term refers to pictures that are greatly 
distorted (usually by some geometric 
procedure) and the original contents 
are difficult to recognize without 
transforming the image back by an 
appropriate means (like curved 
mirrors). A description and analysis 
of anamorphic art is contained in 
Martin Gardner's "Mathematical 
Games" noted in the references. 



Because the images are in digital 
form, transformation becomes a 
mathematical problem and not an ar- 
tistic one. I am sure that many en- 
thusiastic hobbyists can produce 
fascinating pictures along these lines. 

Running Under Another 
Operating System 

This program can be modified to 
run under most operating systems, in- 



246 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



H 



CQITIPLITRQNICS 



N 
C. 



• • • EVERYTHING FOR YOUR TRS-80 • • • 

TRS-«o In a trademark of the Radio Shack Division of Tandy Cor (Miration 

1980 INCOME TAX PAC 

Completely Revised • Latest Tax Tables • Fully Tested * Complete Manual and Documentation 
* + The New Version Of The Income Tax Pacs Are Full Of Error Catching Codes + * 

* * Making It Impossible To Make An Error • • 
— Follow The Simple Step By Step Procedure That Makes Tax Preparation Simple — 



L. 



• INCOME TAX PAC A 

FOR LEVEL II 16K 

• DOES FORM 1040 and 1040A 

• SCHEDULE A ITEMIZED DEDUCTIONS 

• SCHEDULE B INTEREST and DIVIDENDS 

• OUTPUT TO VIDEO DISPLAY 

• SCHEDULE C TAX COMPUTATION 



_L 



• INCOME TAX PAC B 

FOR LEVEL II with or without Printer. Cassette or Disk Has all features 
of Income Tax A PLUS, 

• WORKS WITH LINE PRINTER 

. FORMATS FORM 1040 and 1040A FOR TRACTOR FEED FORMS 

• SCHEDULE C INCOME FROM A PERSONALLY OWNED BUSINESS 
. FORM 2106 EMPLOYEE BUSINESS EXPENSE 



FORM 1040 (LONG FORM) 

FORM 1040A (SHORT FORM) 

FORM 2106 EMPLOYEE BUSINESS EXPENSE 

FORM 2440 DISABILITY INCOME EXCLUSION 

FORM 2441 CREDIT FOR CHILD AND DEPENDENT CARE EXPENSES 

FORMS 3903 MOVING EXPENSE ADJUSTMENT 

FORM 4797 SUPPLEMENTAL SCHEDULE OF GAINS AND LOSSES 



* * PROFESSIONAL * * 
INCOME TAX PAC C 



• SCHEDULE A ITEMIZED DEDUCTIONS 

• SCHEDULE B INTEREST AND DIVIDENDS 

• SCHEDULE C PROFIT (OR LOSS) FROM BUSINESS OR PROFESSION 

• SCHEDULE D CAPITAL GAINS AND LOSSES 

• SCHEDULE E SUPPLEMENTAL INCOME SCHEDULE 

• SCHEDULE G INCOME AVERAGING 

• SCHEDULES R & RP-CREDIT FOR THE ELDERLY 



FOR MODEL I (32K) or MODEL II (64K) 

WITH 1 OR MORE 

DISK DRIVES 

ALL SPECIFICATIONS SUBJECT TO CHANGE 



• SCHEDULE SE-COMPUTATION OF SOCIAL SECURITY SELF-EMPLOYMENT TAX 

• SCHEDULE TC TAX COMPUTATION 

• OUTPUT TO VIDEO OR LINE PRINTER 

• FORMATS FOR TRACTOR FEED OR INDIVIDUAL FORM FEED PRINTERS 

• AUTOMATIC MEMORY STORAGE FOR INCOME TAX PREPARERS 

• INSTANT LINE CHANGE 

• BUILT IN ERROR CHECKING 



•CQMPJTRQNICS 



50 N. PASCACK ROAD 
SPRING VALLEY, NEW YORK 10977 



PLEASE SEND ME: 

□ INCOME TAX PAC A (S19.95) 

□ INCOME TAX PAC B (S49.95) 

□ PROFESSIONAL INCOME TAX PAC C ($99.95) 

□ MODEL II PROFESSIONAL INCOME TAX PAC C ($199 95) 



NEW TOLL-FREE 

ORDER LINE 

(OUTSIDE OF NY. STATE) 

(800) 431-2818 



• A COMPLETE LINE OF NELCO TAX FORMS 

ARE AVAILABLE 

• INDIVIDUAL FEDERAL and STATE FORMS 

• 2 OR MORE PART FORMS 

• TRACTOR FEED FORMS 
ELASTIC OVERLAYS 



I • PLA! 



+ All orders processed within 24-Hours 
* 30-Day money back guarantee on all Software 
• Add $2.00 for shipping in UPS Areas 
• Add $3.00 for COD. or NON-UPS Areas 
• Add $4.00 outside U.S.A., Canada & Mexico 



CREDIT CARD NUMBER 

SIGNATURE 

NAME 



.EXP DATE , 



STREET. 



CITY. 



.STATE. 



.ZIP. 



Circle 166 on Inquiry card. 




HOUR 
24 ORDER 
LINE 

(914) 425-1535 



BYTE February 1981 



247 



eluding cassette-tape systems, if the 
necessary system routines are pro- 
vided. The calling sequence for all 
CP/M functions is to specify the 
desired function by using the C 
register, loading any arguments using 
the DE register pair, and calling loca- 
tion 0005 (hexadecimal). Function 
results are returned in register A. The 
functions used by IMAGE are: 

• Function 1: Read a character from 
the keyboard. This routine will return 
a character (with bit 7 cleared) in the 
A register. If a character is not ready, 
it waits until it is. 

• Function 5: Print a character on 
the list device. The contents of the E 
register are sent to the printer. 

• Function 9: Print a message. The 
ASCII (American Standard Code for 
Information Interchange) character 
string pointed to by DE will be sent to 
the console device. A dollar sign ($) 
terminates the message. 

• Function 10: Buffered input. The 
register pair DE points to a character 
buffer that will contain a line typed 
by the user. The first byte must con- 
tain the maximum number of char- 
acters to be read; the second byte will 



be set to the actual number read (less 
the carriage return). The following 
space will be used to store the input 
characters (bit 7 cleared). 

• Function 11: Interrogate console 
status. This checks the status of the 
keyboard. If a character is ready to 
input (by function 1), the A register 
will be set to hexadecimal FF. Other- 
wise the A register is cleared. 

• Function 15: Open a file. For this 
call, DE points to a FCB (file control 
block) describing the file that will be 
opened. The program uses the default 
FCB built by the initial command 
processor within CP/M. The file is 
opened for either reading or writing 
unless the A register contains hexa- 
decimal FF, indicating that the file 
was not present. 

• Function 16: Close a file. Pointing 
DE at the FCB for the desired file will 
cause it to be closed. All I/O (in- 
put/output) must be completed. The 
directory will be updated. 

• Function 20: Read the next record. 
The next 128-byte record will be read 
from the file (DE points to the proper 
FCB). The data will be read into a 
buffer whose address is set with func- 
tion 26. On return, A will contain a 



Attention TRS-80 Mod II owners: 
P&T CP/M® 2 has more to offer! 



More Disk Storage 596K bytes with 
double densityon standard singlesided 
disk drives. If that's not enough, ver- 
sions are available for double sided 
expansion drives (1 ,2M bytes per disk) 
and the Cameo Hard disk system (1 0M 
bytes). 

More CRT Functions P&T CP/M 2 
has the most advanced screen driver 
available for the Mod II including: erase 
to end of line/screen, insert/delete 
line, cursor addressing, non-scrolling 
area on screen, and much more. 
More Serial I/O Capabilities The se- 
rial drivers in P&T CP/M 2 support 
ETX/ACK, XON/XOFF, and request to 
send handshaking. Direct control of 
the serial ports is also available for 
special applications. 



More Documentation We provide the 
standard CP/M manuals and our own 
150 page manual written specifically 
for P&T CP/M 2. 

More Utilities We have added 14 of 
our own utility programs for the Mod II 
to the standard CP/M utilities. 
More Useful System Functions P&T 
CP/M 2 has all sorts of useful features 
you won't find elsewhere: type-ahead 
buffer for keyboard input, system time 
ofdayclock, automatic program execu- 
tion, and lots more. 

Prices 
Standard P&T CP/M 2 $ 1 85 

P&T CP/M 2 for Shugart 850 

2 sided drives $220 

P&T CP/M 2 forCameo Hard 

Disk system $250 



Wealso carrytheseothersoflware packages: 



Magic Wand text processor $350 

VEDIT text editor $110 

LYNC data communication program $95 

MCALL intelligent terminal program $65 

MAC macro assembler $90 

Pascal/M $175 

Microsoft Basic-80 Interpreter $325 

Microsoft Basic-80 Compiler $350 



CBASIC2 (improved performance) $105 
Osborn accounting software 
(requires CBASIC 2; manuals extra) 
each package $95: all four $295 
Also available are single and double sided 
expansion disk drives and the Cameo Hard 
Disk System. Call or write for details. 




Prepaid. COD. Mastercharge or Visa orders accepted 
Shipping entra California residents add 6% sales tax. 



>*-— ^ PICKLES & TROUT 

1 ROU 1 P.O. BOX 1206. GOLETA. CA 93017. (805) 967-9563 

CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research Inc. TRS-80 is a trademark of Tandy Corp. 



(if the transfer went properly) or a 1 
(if the end of the file was reached). 

• Function 21: Write the next record. 
The FCB pointed to by register pair 
DE indicates from which file the 128 
bytes are taken. The address of the 
data must be set by function 26. On 
return, the A register should contain 
0; anything else is interpreted by 
IMAGE as an out-of -space error. 

• Function 26: Set the DMA (direct 
memory access) address. The next 
disk read or write will reference data 
at the address specified by register 
pair DE. If this is never called, hexa- 
decimal 0080 will be assumed by 
default. 

So there's my system. It's simple, 
inexpensive, and leaves enough room 
for your creative modifications such 
as manipulating blurrihess, shadows, 
outlines, overstrikes, etc. The possi- 
bilities are myriad — how about using 
colored ribbons on your printer to 
obtain different overstrike hues? 
Whatever modifications you design, 
enjoyment is guaranteed. ■ 

References 

LBowden, J C and A K Scharschmidt. "Producing 
Pictures on Your Computer With a Diablo Printer." 
Dr Dobb's Journal of Computer Calisthenics & Or- 
thodontia, Volume 4, Number 39, Issue 9, October 
1979, pages 26 thru 29. 

2.Gonzales, R C and P A Wintz. Digital Image Pro- 
cessing. Reading MA: Addison-Wesley, 1977. 
3Gardner, M. "Mathematical Games: The Curious 
Magic ol Anamorphic Art." Scientific American, 
Volume 232, Number 1, January 1975, pages 110 
thru 116. 

4. Harmon L D. "The Recognition of Faces." Scien- 
tific American, Volume 220, Number 5, November 
1973, pages 70 thru 87. 

5.Hale JAG. "Dot Modulation for the Production of 
Pseudo Grey Pictures." Proceedings of the SID, 
Volume 17, Number 2, Second Quarter 1976, pages 
63 thru 74. 

6.McDonough T. "Computer Graphics With the 
Diablo." Creative Computing, Volume 5, Number 6, 
June 1979, pages 32 thru 35. 



For those readers who do not 
care to type in a program as long 
as the one in listing 1, the author is 
willing to provide source code on a 
floppy disk for $10. The disks will 
be IBM soft-sectored format, writ- 
ten in single density, and will be 
compatible with CP/M versions 
1.4 and 2.0. Contact: 

Clark A Calkins 

2564 Walnut Blvd §106 

Walnut Creek CA 94598 

Please allow 1 to 2 weeks for UPS 
delivery. 



248 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 167 on Inquiry card. 



Start learning and computing for only $129. 95 with a Netronics 8085-based 
computer kit. Then expand it in low-cost steps to a business/development system 
with 64k or more RAM, 8" floppy disk drives, hard disks and multi- terminal I/O. 

THE NEW EXPLORER/85 SYSTEM 

Special! Full 8" /loppy, 64k system for less than the price of a mini/ Only $1490.95! 




Imagine — for only $129.95 you can own the starting 
level of Explorer/85, a computer that's expandable into 
full business/development capabilities — a computer 
that can be your beginner system, an OEM controller, 
or an IBM-formatted 8" disk small business system. 
From the first day you own Explorer/85, you begin 
computing on a significant level, and applying princi- 
ples discussed in leading computer magazines. Ex- 
plorer/85 features the advanced Intel 8085 cpu, which 
is 100% compatible with the older 8080A. It offers on- 
board 8-100 bus expansion, Microsoft BASIC in ROM, 
plus instant conversion to mass storage disk memory 
with standard IBM-formatted 8" disks. All for only 
$129.95, plus the cost of power supply, keyboard/ 
terminal and RF modulator if you don't have them (see 
our remarkable prices below for these and other, ac- 
cessories). With a Hex Keypad/display front panel. 
Level "A" can be programmed with no need for a ter- 
minal, ideal for a controller, OEM, or a real low-cost 
start. 

Level "A" is a 
complete operating 
system, perfect for 
^beginners, hobbyists, 
industrial controller 
use. $129.95 



LEVEL "A" SPECIFICATIONS 

Explorer/85's Level "A" system features the advanced 
Intel 8085 cpu, an 6355 ROM with 2k deluxe monitor/ 
operating system, and an advanced 8155 RAM I/O . . . 
all on a single motherboard with room for RAM/ROM/ 
PROM/EPROM and S-100 expansion, plus generous 
prototyping space, 

PC Board: Glass epoxy. plated through holes with 
solder mask. • I/O: Provisions for 25-pin (DB25) con- 
nector for terminal serial I/O. which can also support a 
paper tape reader . . . cassette tape recorder input and 
output . . . cassette tape control output . . . LED output 
indicator on SOD (serial output) line . . . printer inter- 
face (less drivers) . . , total of four 6-bit plus one 6-bit 
I/O ports. • Crystal Frequency: 6.144 MHz. • Control 
Switches: Reset and user (RST 7.5) interrupt . . . addi- 
tional provisions for RST 5.5, 6.5 and TRAP interrupts 
onboard. • Counter/Timer Programmable. 14-bit bi- 
nary. < System RAM: 256 bytes located at F000, ideal 
for smaller systems and for use as an isolated stack 
area in expanded systems . . . RAM expandable to 64K 
via S-100 bus or 4k on motherboard, 

System Monitor (Terminal Version): 2k bytes of 
deluxe system monitor ROM located at F000. leaving 
(WM free for user RAM/ ROM. Features include tape 
load with labeling , . , examine/change contents of 
memory . . . insert data . . . warm start . . . examine and 
change all registers . . . single step with register display 
at each break point, a debugging/training feature . - ■ go 
to execution address . . . move blocks of memory from 
one location to another . . . fill blocks of memory with a 
constant . . . display blocks of memory . . . automatic 
baud rate selection to 9600 baud . . . variable display 
line length control (1-255 characters/line) . . . chan- 
nelized I/O monitor routine with 6-bit parallel output 
for high-speed printer . . . serial console in and console 
out channel so that monitor can communicate with I/O 
ports. 

System Monitor (Hex Keypad/Display Version): 
Tape load with labeling . . . tape dump with labeling 
. . . examine/change conlentsof memory . . . insert data 
. . . warm start . . . examine and change all registers . . . 



(Also available wired & tested, $1799.95) 




Full 8" disk system for less than the price of a mini (shown with 
Netronics Explorer/85 computer and new terminal). System features 
floppy drive from Control Data Corp., world's largest maker of 
memory storage systems (not a hobby brand.') 




single step with register display at each break point . . . 
go to execution address. Level "A" in this version 
makes a perfect controller for industrial applications, 
and is programmed using the Netronics Hex Keypad/ 
Display, II is low cost, perfect for beginners. 
HEX KEYPAD/DISPLAY SPECIFICATIONS 
Calculator type keypad with 24 system-defined and 18 
user-defined keys. Six digit calculator- type display, 
that displays full address plus data as well as register 
and status information. 
LEVEL "B" SPECIFICATIONS 
Level "B" provides the S-100 signals plus buffers/ 
drivers to support up to six S-100 bus boards, and in- 
cludes: address decoding for onboard 4k RAM expan- 
sion selectable in 4k blocks . . . address decoding for 
onboard 6k EPROM expansion selectable in 6k blocks 
. , . address and data bus drivers for onboard expansion 
. . . wait state generator(jumper selectable), to allow the 
use of slower memories . . . two separate 5 volt regula- 
tors. 

LEVEL "C" SPECIFICATIONS 
Level "C" expands Explorer/65's motherboard with a 
card cage, allowing you to plug up to six S-100 cards 
directly into the motherboard. Both cage and card are 
neatly contained inside Explorers deluxe steel 
cabinet. Level "C" includes a sheet metal superstruc- 
ture, a 5-card. gold plated S-100 extension PC board 
that plugs into the motherboard. Just add required 
number of S-100 connectors. 




LEVEL "D" SPECIFICATIONS 

Level "D" provides 4k of RAM power supply regula- 
tion, filtering decoupling components and sockets to 
expand your Explorer/85 memory to 4k (plus the origi- 



nal 256 bytes located in the 8155A). The static RAM 
can be located anywhere from jflfinfl to EFFF in 4k 
blocks. 

LEVEL "E" SPECIFICATIONS 
Level "E" adds sockets for 8k of EPROM to use the 
popular Intel 2716 or the TI 2516. It includes all sockets, 
power supply regulator, heat sink, filtering and decou- 
pling components. Sockets may also be used for 2k x 8 
RAM IC's (allowing for up to 12k of onboard RAM). 
DISK DRIVE SPECIFICATIONS 

• 8" CONTROL DATA CORP. • Data capacity: 401,016 bytes 
professional drive, (SD), 802,032 bytes (DD), 

• LSI controller. unformatted. 

• Write protect. • Access time: 25ms (one 

• Singleordoubledensity. track). 
DISK CONTROLLER/ I/O BOARD 
SPECIFICATIONS 

• Cont.-ols up to four fl" drives. • 2716 PROM socket included 

• 1771 A LSI (SD) floppy disk for use in custom 
controller. applications. 

• Onboard data separator • Onboard crystal controlled. 
(IBM compatible). • Onboard I/O baud rate 

• 2 Serial I/O ports generators to 9600 baud. 

• Autoboot to disk system • Double-sided PC board 
when system reset. (glass epoxy, ) 

DISK DRIVE CABINET/POWER SUPPLY 

• Deluxe steel cabinet with individual power supply for max- 
imum reliability and stability. 

ORDER A COORDINATED 
EXPLORER/85 APPLICATIONS 
PAK! 

Beginner's Pak (Save $26.00!) — Buy Level "A" (Ter- 
minal Version) with Monitor Source Listing and AP-1 
5-amp Power Supply: (regular price $199.95), now at 
SPECIAL PRICE: S169.B3 plus post. & insur. 
Experimenter's Pak II (Save $53.40!) — Buy Level 
"A" (Hex Keypad/Display Version) with Hex 
Keypad/Display. Intel 60B5 User Manual, Level "A" 
Hex Monitor Source Listing, and AP-1 5-amp Power 
Supply: (regular price $279.35). all at SPECIAL 
PRICE: $219.93 plus post. & insur. 
Special Microsoft BASIC Pak (Save $103,001)— In- 
cludes Level "A" (Terminal Version). Level "B". 
Level "D" (4k RAM). Level "E". 8k Microsoft in 
ROM, Intel 6085 User Manual, Level "A" Monitor 
Source Listing, and AP-1 5-amp Power Supply: (regu- 
lar price $439.70), now yours at SPECIAL PRICE: 
$329.9$ plus post. & insur. 

ADD A TERMINAL WITH CABINET, 
GET A FREE RF MODULATOR: Save 
over $114 at this SPECIAL PRICE: $499.9$ 
plus post. & insur. 
Special 6" Disk Edition Explorer/83 (Saveover$104l) 
— Includes disk-version Level "A", Level "B", two 
S-100 connectors and brackets, disk controller, 64k 
RAM, AP-1 5-amp power supply, Explorer/85 deluxe 
steel cabinet, cabinet fan, 8' SD/DD disk drive from 
famous CONTROL DATA CORP. (not a hobby 
brand!), drive cabinet with power supply, and drive 
cable set-up for two drives. This package includes 
everything but terminal and printers (see coupon for 
them). Regular price $1630.30. all yours in kit at 
SPECIAL PRICE: $1499.9$ plus post. & insur. Wired 
and tested, only $1799.95. 

Special! Complete Business Software Pak (Save 
$625.00!) — Includes CP/M 2.0. Microsoft BASIC. 
General Ledger. Accounts Receivable. Accounts 
Payable. Payroll Package: (regular price S1325). yours 
now at SPECIAL PRICE: $699.95. 



Please send the items checked below: 
D Expl0rer/85 level "A" kH(Terminal Version). . . $129.95 plus 

$3 post. & insur. 
D Explorer/83 level "A" Idt (Hex Keypad/Display Version) . . . 

$129.9$ plus S3 post. & insur. 
□ Bk MlCrOSC-fl BASIC on cassette tape. $64.95 postpaid. 
O 8k Microsoft BASIC In ROMIdt [requires Uvels "B", "D" and 

"E") . . . $99.95 plus 12 post. & insur. 
D Level "8" (S-100) Idt. . . $49.95 plus $2 post. & insur. 
D Level "C" (S-100 6-card expander) ki t $39.95 plus $2 past. 

& insur. 
D level "D" (4k RAM) Idt ... $69.95 plus S2 post. & insur. 
D level "E" (EPROM/ROM) Idt . . . $5.95 plus 50« p&h. 
D Deluxe Steel Cabinet for Explorer/85... $49.95 plus $3 post. 

& insur. 

□ Fan For Cabinet . . . $I5.00plus SI 50 post. & insur. 

D ASCII Keyboard/Computer Terminal kit: features a full 12s 

character sel. u&l case: full cursor control: 75 ohm video 
output: convertible to baudot output: selectable baud rale. 
RS232-C or 20 ma. I/O. 32 or 54 character by 16 line formats, 
and can be used with either a CRT monitor ora TV set (if you 
have an RF modulator) . . . $149.95 plus $3.00 post. & insur. 
D Deluxe Steel Cabinet for ASCII keyboard/terminal . . . 
$19.95 plus S2.50 post. & insur. 

D New! Terminal/Monitor: (See photo) Same features as above, 
except 12" monitor with keyboard and terminal is in deluxe 
single cabinet: kit . . . $399.95 plus S7 post. & insur. 

D Hazelllne terminals: Our prices loo low to quote— CALLUS 

D Iear-Slgler terminals/printers: Our prices loo low to quote: 
CAULS 

D Hex Keypad/Display Idt ... $69.95 plus S2 post. & insur. 



D AP- 1 Power Supply Kll ±8V ® 5 amps) in deluxe steel cabinet 

. . . $39.95 plus S2 post. & insur. 
D Gold Plated S-100 Bus Connectors . . . $4.85 each, postpaid. 

□ RF Modulator HI (allows you to use your TV set as a monitor) 

. . . $8 95 postpaid. 

D 16k RAM Idt (S-100 hoard expands to64k). . . $l99.95plusS2 

post. & insur. 
O 32k RAM kit. . $299.95 plus $2 post. & insur. 
a 48k RAM kit.. . $399.95 plus $2 post. & insur. 
D 64k RAM kit $499.95 plus $2 post. & insur. 
D 16k RAM Expansion kit (to expand any of the above in 16k 

blocks up to 64k) . . . $99.95 plus $2 post. & insur. each. 

D Intel 8065 cpu Users' Man ml. . . $7.50 postpaid. 

D 12" Video Monitor (10MHz bandwidth) . . . $139.95 plus $5 
post. & insur. 

□ Beginner's Pak (see above) $189.95 plus S4 post. & insur. 

D Experimenter's Pak (see above) . . . $219.95 plus $6 post. & 
insur. 

D Special Microsoft BASIC Pak Without Terminal (seeahovo|. . 

$329.95 plus S7 post. & insur. 

D Same as above, plus ASCII Keyboard Terminal With Cabinet, 
Gel Free RF Modulator (see above) . . . $499.95 plus $10 post. 
& insur. 

O Special 8" Disk Edition Explorer/85 (sen above) . $1499.95 

plus $26 post. & insur. 

O Wired t, Tested $1799.95 plus $26 post. & insur. 
D Extra 8" CDC Floppy Drives . . . $499.95 plus $12 posl. & insur. 
D Cabinet £ Power Supply For Drive . . $69.95 plus $3 post. & 

insur. 

D Drive Cable Sei-up For Two Drives ... $25 plus $1.50 post. & 



. $199.95 plus $2 post. 



D Disk Controller Board With I/O Pons . 

& insur. 

D Special: Complete Business Software Pak (see above) . . . 

$689.96 postpaid. 

SOLD SEPARATELY: 
DCP/MI.4. .. $100 postpaid. 
'J CP/M 2.0... $l50poslp,iid. 
D Microsoft BASIC. . . $325 postpaid. 
D Intel 8085 cpu User Manual . . $7.50 postpaid. 
D level "A" Monitor Source listing ... $2$ postpaid. 
^m Continental U.SA Credit Card Buyers Outside Connecticut ^ 

I CALL TOLL FREE: 800-243-7428 m 

^H To Order From Connecticut Or ForTechnical I^V 
^ Assistance, call (203) 354-9375 ^ 

Total Enclosed (Conn res. add sales tax) S 

Paid By: 

D Personal Check D Cashier's Check/Money Order 

□ VISA D Master Charge (Bank No ) 

Acct. No. Exp. Date 

Signature 

Print 

Name 

Address 

Cily 

Slate 



. Zip_ 



■^ NETRONICS Research & Developmenl Ltd. 
ISA 333 Litchfield Road, New Mllford, CT 06776 



Southern California 




r 
o 

Q. 

a 
O 

i- 
a> 

(D 

i. 

CO 

O 

CO 

'c 
o 

ra 
O 

c 



3 
o 

03 



O 

r 

CD 

> 

■a 
< 



Southern Calif ornia— a mecca for 
engineers— is rallying in anticipation 
of a booming business economy 
because of increased military 
spending expected under the new 
Reagan administration. The result is 
that the demand for 
electrical/electronic, computer 
science, data communications or 
aerospace/aeronautical engineers in 
the Golden Gate State has never been 
better. 

As one engineer working in 
Southern California recently 
remarked, "If an engineer doesn't like 
the job, he or she can literally walk 
across the street to another one." 

The hub of Southern California's 
aerospace activity is located in Los 
Angeles County, Orange County, and 
San Diego County, areas which in 1980 
utilized the talents of 55,859 



engineers. This year, according to 
economists, an additional 15,040 will 
be required by the high-technology 
companies that need them. 

With 40% of the total aerospace 
population employment in the United 
States located in Southern California, 
New England, another high technology 
area, runs a distant second, providing 
14% of the nation's aerospace 
engineering employment. Southern 
California will continue to outshine the 
rest of the nation in this industry 
during the 1980s because of two 
reasons: 

1. The projected spurt in defense 
spending by the Reagan 
administration. 

2. The construction of commercial, 
fuel-efficient jet aircraft that will be 
sold here and abroad. 

A spokesman for a major aircraft 



manufacturer says, "There's talk of a 
new military bomber, either the B-1 or 
another one. There is even the 
possibility that the MX missle program 
may be sited for our state, and that the 
cruise missile program will be 
accelerated. The Polaris, a 
submarine-launched missile, may also 
be built here." 

Another engineer at the plant of a 
major aircraft manufacturer confided, 
"Because Reagan is homegrown, we 
hope he'll let us build the B-1 bomber 
here." He added that in addition to the 
need for aerospace engineers, there 
are also great opportunities for those 
interested in alternative energy 
sources. 

The reason is that tax 
credits of 25% to 50% are awarded to 
anyone who installs solar heating. 
Approximately 100,000 solar-heated 



250 BYTE February 1981 





homes and businesses exist in the 
Golden Gate State. Obviously 
Southern California is a hot market for 
this field, which is growing in 
importance. 

The computer business is also 
booming, and companies are scouring 
the country seeking engineers with the 
qualifications necessary to develop 
the high technology products we need 
for tomorrow. 

In addition to the progressive 
scientific climate, the weather in 
Southern California is "the closest 
thing to perfect," according to the 
United States Weather Bureau. The 
average temperature isasunny71 
degrees, with only 1 4 inches of rain a 
year, falling mostly between 
November and March. ("It never rains 
in Southern California," so the song 
goes.) The proximity of the ocean, the 



desert, and the mountains makes it 
possible to ski, bask in the desert sun, 
and swim in the Pacific ocean, all in the 
same day. 

Southern California's standard of 
living is one of the highest in the 
nation: the median family income in 
Orange County in 1980, for example, 
was $29,000. Los Angeles families 
averaged $26,000, Santa Barbara, 
$27,000, and San Diego households 
took home $24,000. But the Catch-22 
on housing is that the median price 
was a whopping $100,000, and this 
substantial rate is exacerbated (if not 
caused) by a housing shortage and 
high interest rates. Businesses 
employing engineers are, in some 
instances, trying to circumvent this 
problem by paying part of the interest 
rate on the mortgages of employees 
that relocate. For example, if the 
mortgage rate is 14%, the company 
may pay 4% of the cost. 

To help ease the housing problem, 
business-oriented Lieutenant 
Governor Michael Curb has 
assembled a task force of real estate, 
government, and labor officials. He 
blames rent control for the shortage 
because he says it discourages 
construction of new housing. 

"If we could increase the supply of 
houses, demand would diminish, and 
so would prices," an aide says. He 
adds, "Average personal income in the 
state is the highest in the country; it's 
$9,900 compared with a national 
average of $8,700. Housing is the only 
major stumbling block to an otherwise 
excellent quality of life." 

He concludes, "Today business is 
no longer a dirty word. It's a four letter 
word meaning jobs." 

This statement is borne out by 
recent figures that show that 
California will continue to grow at a 
rate of 30% to 50% through the 
mid-'80s. Economists in the state 
predict that there will be 300,000 new 
jobs needed for manufacturing in the 
next few years, a sure sign of the 
state's vibrant economy. 

Another advantage of living and 
working in Southern California is that it 
offers engineers the opportunity to 
continue their education. The 
University of California at San Diego, 
for example, boasts three Nobel Prize 
winners on its staff and 36 members of 
the National Academy of Sciences. 

California Institute of Technology in 
Pasadena is another first-rate school 
for engineers. 

In addition, many of the high 




California's Lt. Governor, Mike Curb, 
is working with a task force of real 
estate, government, and labor officials 
to help ease the housing problem. 

technology companies in Southern 
California offer their employees 
in-house courses. In some cases 
engineers are updated in their 
specialties through the use of 
closed-circuit television beamed from 
schools in other parts of the state. 

Most companies encourage their 
engineer employees to upgrade their 
skills, and many pay full or partial 
tuition. 

To sum up, the demand for 
engineers in beautiful Southern 
California in this decade is expected to 
remain strong. The salaries are high, 
the work is both exciting and 
important, and industry is hiring at an 
accelerated rate. In addition, the 
Golden Gate State offers a lifestyle 
with every kind of cultural and 
recreational activity available 
anywhere in the world. 

As one Southern California 
economist put it, "Where are all those 
engineers? We need them." 

If you area recent graduate or a 
veteran engineer seeking a virtually 
unlimited future, the Golden Gate 
State offers an opportunity that you 
may never have again. If you are 
serious about your career, are an 
electrical/electronic, computer 
science, data communications, or 
an aerospace/aeronautical engineer, 
don't miss the following Southern 
California Career Opportunities 
Section featuring blue-chip companies 
that are interested in you and your 
talents now and in the future. 

—John Brand 



> 

Q. 

< 

3. 
o 



0) 

o 

c 

3" 
CD 

3 

o 

B 
^» 
O 

-^ 
3 
0>' 

O 

^ 

CD 

o 

■o 
■o 
o 

3 






BYTE February 1981 



251 



SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA CAREER OPPORTUNITIES 



Who will be first 
with the avionics 
of the 21st century? 



It could be you and Hughes Radar 
Systems. 

We pioneered pulse Doppler radar 
and built the first operational airborne 
programmable signal processor. Today, 
three out of the four front-line U.S. 
tactical aircraft have Hughes radars. 
We're leaders in synthetic aperture 
radar, in-weather reconnaissance and 
strike radar, high order language, 
antenna arrays and holographic 
displays. We're even building the 
rendezvous radar for the Space Shuttle. 

And with computer-aided design, 
manufacturing, and testing of intelligent 
radar devices, the future is at Hughes. 



In fact, Hughes is one of the nation's 
largest employers of electronic 
engineers and a major employer in 
virtually every other scientific, computer 
and technical discipline — with 1,500 
projects and a backlog of over $5 
billion. Yet we're decentralized to give 
you the kinds of environments that 
stimulate innovation and promote 
recognition of your work. 

Who will be first with the avionics of 
the future? It could be you and Hughes. 

At Hughes Radar Systems, we'll 
introduce you to people, ideas and jobs 
that could change your world. And 
maybe ours. 



It could be you and Hughes 

Radar Systems. 



Call (213) 647-4900, collect, or send 
resume to: 

Engineering Employment 

Dept. B2 

Hughes Aircraft Company 

Radar Systems Group 

P.O. Box 92426 

Los Angeles, CA 90009 

Current openings: 

Software Design/Analysis 
Software Test Engineering 
Systems Integration & Test 
Computer-Aided Design & 

Manufacturing 
RF/ Microwave Design 
Digital Circuits Design & Test 
Radar Systems Design 
Large Scale Integration Design, 

Development & Test 
Production Process Engineering 
Microprocessor Development/ 

Applications 
Antenna Systems Design & Test 
Reliability Engineering 
Production Test Engineering 
Industrial Engineering 



HUGHES AIRCRAFT COMPANY 

RADAR SYSTEMS 

Proof of U.S. Citizenship Required 
Equal Opportunity Employer 




252 BYTE February 1981 



Circle 168 on inquiry card. 



Product Review 



The Heath H-14 Printer 



Bradford E Rehm, 1004 Middle Cove Dr, Piano TX 75023 



What this country needs is a good $250 printer. It 
ought to accept characters at 9600 bps (bits per second) 
and print them at 100 lines per minute. It should produce 
letter-quality print in various formats, including 80, 96, 
and 132 columns per page and 6, 8, or 10 lines per inch. It 
should have graphics capabilities, and it should offer an 
adjustable tractor-feed mechanism that can use narrow or 
wide paper. It should be very reliable, easy to service, 
quiet, and pleasing to look at. 

Has Heath given us the Ail-American line printer? 
Perhaps not, but the folks in Benton Harbor, Michigan, 
have chalked up real accomplishments in several areas. 
As a $595 kit, the H-14 comes closer than any other 
80-column impact printer on the market (at this writing) 
to meeting the price criterion. The somewhat higher 
"assembled" price still falls below most of its competitors' 
prices. And the H-14 does this while making a fine show- 
ing in the area of capabilities. 

The H-14 Kit 

The kit version of the printer is somewhat intimidating 
because of the sheer number of parts that emerge from 
the shipping carton. Rumors have been circulating to the 
effect that Heath had simply built electronics around an 
imported printer mechanism or that they had built a new 
enclosure around a familiar American-made mechanism 
which uses the Practical Automation dot-matrix print 
head. The truth is that while Heath uses the Practical 
Automation DM-101 print head, the rest of the 
mechanism (except, of course, for the driver motors) is of 
Heath's own design. 

The builder, at any rate, assembles the printer 
mechanism from the very beginning. Happily, it is sur- 
prising to discover how easy the assembly is to execute, 
because, as always, Heath has done an outstanding job of 
preparing the kit manual. In fact, it is hard to believe that 
Heath charges $300 more for the assembled version. 

There are few special parts in the mechanical portion of 
the printer. Two of the four shafts that operate the 
sprocket feed and support the print head, for example, 
are standard, quarter-inch extension shafts. This allows 
use of common quarter-inch bushings, collars, and grom- 
mets, which not only contributes to the low cost of the 
device, but also makes maintenance simpler. 

Heath chose a more expensive route in providing a 
substantial die-cast metal base upon which the printer is 
built. It forms the lower half of the housing and supports 
the print-head mechanism, power transformer, and 
printed-circuit board. Although the molded plastic cover 
of the device is very light (why not, since it supports 
nothing), the metal base gives the H-14 the hefty, stay- 
put feel of a heavy-duty piece of equipment. 



The Electronic Circuitry 

Nearly all of the parts in the electronics portion of the 
H-14 are mounted on two printed-circuit boards. The 
main board is busy but by no means crowded, and there 
are two extra LEDs (light-emitting diodes) available for 
checking logic functions as the integrated circuits are in- 
stalled. The second, smaller board, which corrects a 
design oversight and which was not initially shipped with 
the kit (original shipment, February 1979), is mounted 
adjacent to the paper-drive motor. 

The circuit is assembled on a double-sided, 12.5 by 
25.5 cm (4% by 10 y 8 inch) board which includes the 
power-supply rectifier diodes, the printer-data-handling 
electronics, and the print-head and motor-driver circuits. 
The power-supply filters, a low-voltage regulator and a 
series-pass transistor, and an end-of-paper sensor are 
mounted off the board. 

Because a microprocessor-controller is used, the cir- 
cuitry is straightforward. Data enters and leaves the 
printer through a pair of EIA or 20 mA current-loop in- 
terfaces. These are connected to a UART (universal asyn- 
chronous receiver/ transmitter) that provides the inter- 





Name 


matrix, impact); ASCII 


H-14 


96-character set; 75 




cps maximum print 


Manufacturer 


speed (40 cps average); 


Heath Company 


80-, 96-, or 


Benton Harbor MI 


132-column line width, 


49022, (800) 253-0570 


software selectable; ac- 




cepts 2V2- to 9 Vi -inch- 


Dimensions 


wide paper, fan-folded 


Height: 12.2 cm (4 3 /« 


sprocket-feed only 


inches); Width: 46.5 




cm (18% inches); 


Software 


Depth: 36.2 cm (14 13 / 16 


Requires H-8-14, 


inches) 


H-8-17, or H-8-18 soft- 




ware for use with 


Price 


Heath H-8 computer 


$595 kit; $895 


or HT-11 software for 


assembled 


use with Heath H-llA 




computer 


Features 




Controlled by Fair- 


Hardware Options 


child F8 microproces- 


Serial interface via 


sor; uses Practical 


RS-232 or 20 mA cur- 


Automation DM-101 


rent loop, 110 to 4800 


print head (5 by 7 dot- 


bps 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 253 



Circle 169 on inquiry card. 



INTRODUCING THE 
LDP1 8088 MAINFRAME 

Want to move to the new 16 bit generation of micro's? You do 
not want to assemble a system from board products? Finally, a 
complete system that only needs a Video Terminal plugged in 
to be on the air. 

The LDP1 will get you going with your 16 bit systems quickly 
while not obsoleting other boards in your system. The LDP1 is 
a 16 bit system based on the LDP88, 8088 CPU board and the 
LDP72. advanced floppy disk controller. In addition you get 
64 K of RAM, an 8" floppy disk, a mainframe with power supp- 
ly and your choice of two different operating systems. All this 
for the unbelievable price of $3499 (with 86-DOS). And to make 
a good deal better, if ordered before February 28th, you pay 
only $2995 (with 86-DOS). 





PRICES 


BEFORE FEB. 28 


LDP1 with 86-DOS 


$3499 


$2995 


LDP1 with CP/M-86 


3599 


3099 




Kit 


Assembled & Tested 


LDP88 


$349.95 


$399.99 


LDP72 


219.95 


274.95 


S100 Prototype Board 


29.95 




86-DOS 


195.00 




CP/M-86 


250.00 




Microsoft Basic 86 


500.00 


86-DOS required 




350.00 


with LDP1 and 86-DOS 


PASCAL/M 


250.00 


CP/M-86 required 



Rev. A LDP88's while they last $275 



LOMAS DATA PRODUCTS 



11 Cross Street 

Wostborough, MA 01581 
Telephone (617) 366-4335 



PA5CAL/M is a trademark 01 Sorcim 
CP/M-86 is a trademark of Digital Research 
B6-DOS is a trademark ol Seattle Computer Products 




LINE VOLTAGE 
TRANSIENT CLIPPING 



Features Parallel Operation 

PROTECTS: 

•Computers 

• Micro-Computer Systems 
•Word Processors 
•Cash Registers 

• Power Supplies 



5000 Hits/Second 

PROTECTS AGAINST: 

• High Energy Voltage 
Transients 

•On-Off Switching 
•Lightning Induced Transients 

• Inrush of On/Off Power 



>Yma 

Nj INDUSTRI 



DV/MARC 

INDUSTRIES, INC. 



TRANSIENT VOLTAGE 
SURGE SUPPRESSOR 



B7BF 

® 



(formerly PDF) 

7133 Rutherford Rd. 
, (301)29^3130 



Baltimore, Md. 21207 
800-638-9098 ^ 



face between the serial communication lines and the 
parallel data bus of the microprocessor. The latter is a 
descendant of Fairchild's F8 family and includes on-chip 
read-only memory. This custom-masked device holds the 
program which enables the microprocessor to operate the 
printer. Data storage and address latching (which helps 
the processor interleave I/O [input/output] and printing 
tasks) are handled by a pair of 2112 memory devices and 
a 74LS273 8-bit latch. The processor also has four 8-bit 
I/O ports which are used as follows: two drive the seven 
print-head solenoids, the head-drive motor, the ribbon- 
drive motor, and the paper-drive stepper motor; another 
does I/O to the UART; and the remaining one selects the 
specific device which is being driven. 

Two Interesting Circuit Details 

Two other sections of the circuit merit attention. 
Asked about how Heath was able to make the Practical 
Automation print head operate at speeds in excess of 
120 cps (characters per second) while other printers using 
the same head have been restricted to lower speeds, an 
engineer at Heath explained that the H-14 continually 
monitors the resistance of one of the head magnet coils. 
In light-duty printing, the coil temperature does not rise 
significantly. During long printing jobs or when using the 
compact 132-column print, the internal temperature will 
rise to the point at which the head could be damaged. The 
increased temperature also increases the resistance of the 
winding, however, so a simple bridge circuit, monitored 
by two op amps, is used to detect the change and briefly 
halt printing. 

On learning about this trick, one wonders if the printer 
will spend most of its time cooling down after it reaches 
operating temperature. In practice, however, this ar- 
rangement works well. The H-14 printed eight to fifteen 
80-column pages before pausing to cool. The number of 
pages it executes seems to depend mainly on the ambient 
air temperature and circulation. Heath has left a slot in 
the bottom plate to provide cooling air from below, 
which can exit through the paper-viewing slot in the top 
cover, so the Heath engineers clearly understand that air 
circulation affects throughput. 

That large rectangular slot in the bottom plate, just 
below the print head, is surrounded by a row of small 
holes. Some H-14 owners will visualize a blower and 
bellows arrangement fastened to the bottom plate at a 
flange bolted at these holes. It is surprising that they are 
not there for that reason at all. Although the printer is 
not certified by the US Underwriters' Laboratories, it has 
been approved by the latter's Canadian counterpart. The 
row of holes is necessary so that the H-14 can pass a test 
in which flaming oil poured into the enclosure must be 
quenched as it exits from the ventilation slot on the bot- 
tom plate. (Isn't it good to know your H-14 can be used 
as a flaming-oil quencher!) 

The number of pages which can be printed before the 
first cool-down pause is smaller, of course, when the 96- 
or 132-column print format is selected. The duty cycle of 
the head is increased in these modes — laying down 96 
characters in a line before taking a breath (while going to 
the next line starting position) is more taxing than print- 
ing only 80 characters before taking a line break. Never- 
theless, the pauses the H-14 takes for head cooling are not 
long. Again, the time required depends upon the ambient 
air temperature, but I find that most pauses are on the 



254 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 170 on Inquiry card. 



From Digital Research 




The Best 
Gets Better 

CP/M®, the industry standard, 
continues to expand, because your 
needs continue to expand. 

CP/M-80™ 

For cost-effective computing on 8-bit 
Z-80, 8080 and 8085-based micro- 
computers, CP/M-80 gives you the 
widest variety of mature, specialized 
software products anywhere. 
CP/M-86™ 

For jobs that require more address 
space and increased computing re- 
sources, CP/M-86 provides the soft- 



ware power you need. CP/M-86 is 
enhanced to operate with Intel's new 
16-bit 8086 and 8088 microproces- 
sors, with all the qualities that have 
given CP/M industry-wide support. 
And there's more to come: MP/M™, 
our multi-programming monitor, 
and CP/NET™, our network oper- 
ating system, and PL/1, now available 
for 8-bit machines, will soon be 
available for the 8086/8088 family. 
CP/M. It's available on over 250 
types of computers. For a closer 
look, ask your dealer, your manu- 
facturer, or Digital Research. 



U.S.A. 

DIGITAL RESEARCH 

P.O. Box 579 

801 Lighthouse Avenue 

Pacific Grove, CA 93950 

408-649-3896 

TWX 910 360 5001 



EUROPE 

VECTOR INTERNATIONAL 

Research Park 

B-3030 Leuven 

Belgium 

32 ( 16) 20-24-96 

Telex 26202 VECTOR 



FAR EAST 
MICROSOFTWARE ASSOC. 

102 Plasada 

3-16-14 Minami Aoyama 

Minato-ku 

Tokyo 107, Japan 

03-403-2120 

Telex 2426875 MSA 



IQ DJGJTflL RESEARCH* 




Circle 171 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 255 




S-100 GRAPHICS 







Unretouched photograph 

• TEKTRONIX EMULATOR 

• PRINTER INTERFACES 

• CHARACTER GENERATOR 

Designed to work with the CDL 

DYNAMIC BLACKBOARD 

High Resolution Graphics Interface 

• 51 2 x 640 Matrix • High Speed • Gray tones and color 

• Light pen • Fast delivery • 2-year field experience. 



Send for brochure and data. 

CAMBRIDGE DEVELOPMENT 
LABORATORY 

36 Pleasant Street, Watertown, MA 02172 
(617)926-0869 



order of two to five seconds, and they occur, nominally, 
every two to five lines after an eight- to fifteen-page 
warm-up period. 

How closely does the H-14 approach the thermal limits 
of the print head in this kind of operation? A call to Prac- 
tical Automation in Shelton, Connecticut, yielded the in- 
formation that the DM-101 head can be operated at 
100 cps (characters per second) bidirectionally if suffi- 
cient forced-air cooling is available. Continuous bidirec- 
tional operation above 16.5 cps is not recommended 
without forced ventilation or other protection, and the 
maximum internal operating temperature of the head is 
62° C. 

Heath claims that the temperature threshold for the 
shutdown has been set at approximately 50° C, which is 
well within the Practical Automation specification. This 
suggests that the printer can be run for long periods 
without fear of overheating the head. If you should want 
to try this, by the way, you may want to make sure that 
the head nose bearing has adequate lubrication. There is 
a felt-pad oil retainer on the back of the unit which 
should normally be given a few drops of machine oil after 
running through five boxes of paper. Giving it a drop or 
two before printing a whole box nonstop would be pru- 
dent. 

There is no way to directly lubricate the solenoid- 
operated wires that actually do the printing. As is true for 
most wire-matrix heads, the wires are continuously 
lubricated by ink in the ribbon. This means that if you in- 
tend to realize the full, 100-million-character life of the 
H-14's head, you will never want to run the printer with a 
dry ribbon or without paper. You will also want to use 
only nylon ribbons, since cloth ribbons are easily per- 
forated by the head wires. 

Practical Automation recommends that nylon ribbons 
containing oil-based ink be used. A Heath representative 
that I contacted could not confirm that the office- 
equipment-type ribbon Heath supplies contains an oil- 
based ink. Testing at Heath has shown, however, that 
maximum head life is possible with its ribbons. (The 
manufacturer of one of the leading brands of ribbons 
available in office-supply stores was also contacted in an 
attempt to learn whether the ink used in these products is 
oil-based. In spite of the best efforts of the company's 
Dallas office, we were not able to acquire the informa- 
tion.) 

The other interesting circuit is the driver for the paper- 
feed motor. There was a note in the original instruction 
manual for the H-14 saying that Heath would provide, 
upon request, a modification kit to enable the printer to 
more reliably lift paper from a box placed on the floor 
below it. The problem addressed occasionally appeared 
when my H-14 was required to lift 20-pound paper. The 
paper-drive stepper motor would occasionally growl and 
feed the paper in fractional-line increments instead of a 
full line. 

The original stepper drivers used 7416 open-collector 
inverter/buffer devices to interface the microprocessor 
port to transistors that switched the motor on and off. 
One side of each winding was pulled high by a 12 V 
supply, while the other was pulled low by a transistor. A 
step was executed by turning off a pair of transistors. The 
problem was that the motor did not develop enough 
torque with a 12 V supply, but a higher voltage would 
probably have overheated it (stepper motors consume 



256 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 172 on Inquiry card. 



DYNACOMP 



Quality software for : 

ATARI 

PET 

APPLE II Plus 



TRS-80 (Level II)* 
NORTH STAR 
CP/M 8" Disk 



GAMES, SIMULATIONS and EDUCATION 



BRIDGE 2.0 (Available for all computers) 



Prke: S17.95 Cassette 
121.95 Diskette 

An all-inclusive version of this mosl popular of card games. This program both BIDS and PLAYS eilhci contract or 
duplicate bridge. Depending on the contract, your computer opponents will either play the offense OR defense. If you bid 
loo high, the computer will double your contract! BRIDGE 2,0 provides challenging entertainment foi advanced playeis 
and 'is an eicellenl learning tool for the bridge novice. 

HEARTS 1.5 (Available for all computers) Prke: $14.95 Cassette 

$18.95 Diskette 

An exciting and entertaining computet version or this populat card game. Hearts is a trick-oriented game in which the 
purpose is not to lake any hearts or the queen of spades. Play against two computer opponents who are atmed with hard- 
to-beat playing strategies. 

VALDEZ (Available for all computers) Price: S14.95 Cassette 

$18.95 Diskette 

A simulation of supertanker navigation in the Prince William Sound and Valdcz Narrows. The program uses an extensive 
256X256 element radar map and employs physical models of ship response and tidal patterns. Chan your own course 
through ship and iceberg traffic. Any standard terminal may be used for display. 



FLIGHT SIMULATOR (Available for all computers) 



Price: S17.95 Cassette 
S21.95 Diskette 

:malicat simulation of take-off, flight and landing. The program utilizes aerodynamic equa- 
f a rial airfoil. You can practice instrument approaches and navigation using radials and 
compass headings. The more advanced flyer can also perform loops, half-rolls and similar acrobatic maneuvers. 

CR1BBAGE 2.0 (TRS-80 only) Prke:S14.95 Cassette 

S18.95 Diskette 
This is a well-designed and nicely executed two-handed version of the classic card game, cribbagc. It is an excellent pro- 
gram for the cribbagc player in search of a worthy opponent as well as the beginner wishing to learn the game, in par- 
ticular the scoring and jargon. The standard cribbagc score board is continually shown at the top of the display (utilising 
the TRS-BO's graphics capabilities), with the cards shown underneath. The computer automatically scores and also an- 

CHESS MASTER (North Star and TRS-80 only) Prke:S19.95Cassc((e 

523.95 Diskette 
This complete and vciy powerful program provides live levels of play. It includes castling, en passant captures and the 
ptomolion of pawns. Additionally, the board may be preset before the start of play, permitting the examination of 
"book" plays. To maximize execution speed, the program is written in assembly language Iby SOFTWARE 
SPECIALISTS of California). Full graphics ate employed in thcTRS-80 vetsion. and two widths of alphanumeric display 
todate North Star users. 



STARTREK 3.2 (Available for all computers) 



Prke: S 9.95 Cassette 
S13.95 Diskette 

This is the classic Starlrek simulation, but with several new features. For example, the Klingons now shoot at the Enter- 
prise without warning while also attacking starbases in olhet quadiants. The Klingons also attack with both light and 
heavy cruisers and move when shot at! The situation is hectic when the Enterprise is besieged by three heavy cruisers and a 
starbasc S.O.S. is received! The Klingons gel even! 

SPACE TILT (Apple only) Prke: $10.95 Cassette 

S14.95 Diskette 

Use the game paddles lo till the plane of the TV screen to "roll" a ball into a hole in the screen. Sound s'trnpt? Not when 
the hole gels smaller and smaller! A built-in timer allows you lo measure your skill against others in this habit-rorming ac- 

GAMES PACK I and GAMES PACK II Price: S 9.95 each, Cassette 

$13.95 each. Diskette 
GAMES PACK 1 contains BLACKJACK. LUNAR LANDER, CRAPS, HORSERACE. SWITCH and more. GAMES 
PACK II includes CRAZY EIGHTS. JOTTO. ACEY-DUCEY. LIFE, WUMPUS and others. Available for all corn- 



Why pay 15.95 or more per program when yoi 

STUD POKER (ATARI only) 



a DYNACOMP collection for just S9.95? 



I IV 



Price: Sll.95Cassetle 

S15.95 Diskette 

the classic gambler's card game. The computer deals the cards one al a lime and you (and the computer) bet on 
>u see. The computer does not cheat and usually bcls the odds. However, it sometimes bluffs! Also included is a 
d draw poker betting practice program. This package will run on a 16K ATARI. Color, graphics, sound. 



NOMINOES JIGSAW (TRS-80 only) Prices S16.95 Cassette 

SZ0.95 Diskette 
NOMINOES JIGSAW is an intriguing and sophisticated graphical puzzle. The jigsaw consists of a 9 by 9 board partially 
tilled with randomly chosen shapes (nominocs), of which there are 60 types. By knowing lhal the shapes must be legally 
connected, and by guessing thcshapeal each location, all the nominocs maybe eventually deduced. Scoring is based on 
the number of guesses required and the difficulty of the board set-up. 

MOVING MAZE (Apple only) Price: S10.95Cassette 

S14.95 Diskette 

MOVING MAZE employs the games paddles to direct a puck from one side of a maze I o the other. However, the maze is 
dynamically (and randomly) built and is continually being modified. The objective is to cross the maze without touching 
(or being hit by) a wall. Scoring is by an elapsed lime indicator, and three levels of play are provided. 



BLACK HOLE (Apple only) 

This is an exciting graphical simulation of the probli 



Price: S14.95 Cassette 
S18.95 Diskette 

ed in closely observing a black hole with a space probe. The 

he anomaly lhal ihe lidal stress destroys ihe probe. Control or the craft is realistically simulated using side 
and main ihruslers for acceleration. This program employs Hi-Res graphics and is educational as well as 



challenging. 

TEACHER'S PET I (Available for all computers) 

This is the first of DYNACOMP's educational packages. Primal 
provides ihe young student with counting practice, letter-word 



Price: S 9.95 Cassette 
513.95 Diskette 

intended for pre-school lo grade 3. TEACHER'S PET 
lognilion and three levels of math skill e: 



CRYSTALSIATARl only) 

are built. No iwo patterns are ihe same, and 
has been used in local stores lo demonslral 



PrlcetS 9.95 Cassette 
S13.95 Diskette 

ing, graphics displays accompany with tones which vary as the patterns 
ombined effect of the sound and graphics are mesmerizing. CRYSTALS 






r feaiu 



of ihe 



POKER PARTY (Available for all computers) 



Price: 517.95 Cassette 
$21.95 Diskette 

POKER PARTY is a draw poker simulation based on ihe book, POKER, by Oswald Jacoby. This is the mosl comprehen- 
sive version available Tor micro compulcrs. The party consists of yourself and six other {computer) players. Each of these 
players (you will gel lo know them I has a different personality in ihe form of a varying propensity to bluff or hold under 
pressure. Practice with POKER PARTY before going lo thai expensive game lonite! 



Availability 



DYNACOMP soFlwarc is supplied with complete documentation containing clear explanations and examples. All programs 
will run within I6K program memory space (ATARI requires 24K). Except where noted, programs are available on ATARI. 
PET, TRS-80 (Level II) and Apple (Applesoft) cassette and diskette as well as North Slar single density (double density com- 
patible) diskette. Additionally, mosl programs can be obtained on standard (IBM formal) 8" CP/M Doppydisks for systems 
running under MBASIC. 



' ATARI, PET, APPLE II, TRS-8Q. NORTH STAR, CP/M and IBM are registered trade n. 



tnd/or trademarks. 



BUSINESS, UTILITIES and MISCELLANEOUS 

MAILLISTII (North Staronly) Prlcc:S21.95 

This many-featured program now includes full alphabetic and zip code sorting as well as File merging. Enlries can be 
retrieved by user defined code, client name or Zip Code. The printout fo nal allows the use of standard size address 
labels. Each diskette can store more lhan 1100 entries (single density: over 2200 with double density systems!? 



TEXT EDITOR I (Letter Writer) 

An easy lo use, line-Oliemed text edilot 
editor is ideally suiled for composing le 



Prke: S14.95 Cassette 
518.95 Diskette 

which provides variable line widths and simple paragraph indexing. This ted 
lers and is quite capable of handling much larger jobs. Available for all com- 



PERSONAL FINANCE SYSTEM (ATARI only) Prke: 534.95 Diskette 

PFS is a single disk menu oriented system composed of 10 programs designed to organ ue and simplify your personal 
finances. Features include a 300 transaction capacity; fasl access; 26 optional user codes; dala retrieval by month, code or 
payee; optional printing of reports', checkbook balancing; bar graph plotting and more. Also provides on the diskette is 
ATARI DOS 2. 

F1NDIT (North Star only) Prke:S19.95 

This is a three-in-one program which maintains information accessible by keywords of three types: Personal (eg: lasl 
name). Commercial (eg: plumbers) and Reference (eg: magazine articles, record albums, etc). In addition lo keyword 
searches, ihere are birthday, anniversary and appo uilment searches for ihe personal records and appointment searches for 
the commercial records. Reference records are accessed by a single keyword or by cross-referencing iwo or three 

DF1LE (North Slar only) Prke: $19.95 

"1 his handy program allows North Star users lo maintain a specialized data base of all Tiles and programs in the stack of 
disks which invariably accumulates. DF1LE is easy lo set up and use. It will organize your disks to provide efficient 
locating of the desired file or program. 

COMPARE (North Star only) price: S12.95 

COMPARE is a single disk utility software package which compares two BASIC programs and d tplays the file sizes of 
the programs in bytes, the lengths in lerms of ihe number of statement lines, and the line numbers at which various listed 
differences occur. COMPARE permits ihe user lo examine versions of his software to verify which are the more current, 
and to clearly identify the changes made during development. 



COMPRESS (North Star only) 

COMPRESS is a single-disk utility program which rente 
from North Slar BASIC programs. The source file is pro 



Price! $12.93 

:csand (optionally) REM 
:d one line al a time, ihus permitting very large progra 
Bry, Tile compressions of 20-50*. are commonly achii 



GRAF1X (TRS-80 only) 

This unique program allow 



Price: S12.95 Cassette 
51*5.95 Diskette 

asily create graphics directly from the keyboard. You "draw" your figure using the 
program's extensive cursor controls. Once ihe figure is made, il is automatically appended lo your BASIC program as a 
siring variable. Draw a "happy race", call il HI and ihen print il from your program using PRINT HI! This is a very easy 

TIDY (TRS-80 only) Prke: S10.95 Cassette 

S14.95 Diskette 
TIDY is an assembly language program which allows you to renumber the lines in your BASIC programs. TIDY also 
removes unnecessary spaces and REMark statements. The rcsull is a compacted BASIC program which uses much less 
mcmoiy space and executes significantly faster. Once loaded. TIDY remains in memory; you may toad any number of 
BASIC programs wiihoul having to reload TIDY! 

NORTHSTAR SOFTWARE EXCHANGE (NSSE) LIBRARY PrkeS9.95 Diskette 

DYNACOMP now distributes the >u+ volume NSSE library. Most of these diskettes ofTer an outstanding value for the 
purchase price. Write for details regarding ihe contents of ihis library and quantity (four or more) purchases. 



STATISTICS and ENGINEERING 

DATA SMOOTHER (Not available for ATARI) 

This special dala smoothing program may be used lo rapidly derive useful information fior 
ingdata which are equally spaced. The software features choice in degree and range of Til, 
second derivative calculation. Also included isaulomatic plotting of Ihe inpul data and si 

FOURIER ANALYZER (Available for all computers) 



■other 



Price: S14.95 Cassette 
518.95 Diskette 

ihe frequency spectra of limited duration signals. The program features automatic scaling 
and results. Practical applications include the analysis of complicated patterns in such fields 



TFA (Transfer Function Analyzer) 

and Filters by examining their response lo pulsed inputs. TFA is a maj 
contains an engineering-oriented decibel vetsus log-frequency plot as * 
ANALYZER is designed for educational and scientific use. TFA is an 

HARMONIC ANALYZER (Available for all computers) 



Prke: S19.95 Cassette 
S23.95 Diskette 

ions of systems such as hi-fi amplifiers 
ilion of FOURIER ANALYZER and 
editing features. Whereas FOURIER 
g tool. Available for all compulcrs. 



Price: 524.95 Cassette 
S28.9S Diskette 

HARMONIC ANALYZER was designed for the spectrum analysis of repetitive waveforms. Features include dala file 
generation, edilingand storage/retrieval as well as data and spectrum plotting. One particularly unique facility is that ihe 
inpul dala need not be equally spaced or in order. The original data is sorted and a cubic spline interpolation is used to 
create the dala file required by the FFT algorithm. 

FOURIER ANALYZER, TFA and HARMONIC ANALZYER may be pruchased together for a combined price of 
144.95 (three cassettes) and $36.95 (three diskettes). 

Prke: 519.95 Cassette 
SZ3.95 Diskette 
versatile one-dimensional least squares "polynomial" curve filling pro ■ 
utomatic degree determination option; an extensive internal library of fit- 
I curve plotting; a statistical analysis (eg: standard deviation, correlation 
icw fits may be tried without reentering the data. REGRESSION I is cer- 
. lysis software library. 



REGRESSION I (Available for aU computers) 



-yhigha 



optionally 



REGRESSION I is 
gram. Features inch 
ling functions; dala editing; 
coefficient, etc.) and much n 
la'inly ihecornersloneprogr, 

REGRESSION II (PARAFIT) (Available for all computers) 



polynomial filling, and PARAFIT Tor iht 

REGRESSION 1 and 11 may be purchased together for £36.95 (< 



Prke: S19.95 Cassette 
523.95 Diskette 

s in which (he parameters are imbedded (possibly nonlineaily) in the fitting 
inalform. including the parameters (A(l). A(2). etc.) as one or more BASIC 
lanipulated and plotted as with REGRESSION I. Use REGRESSION I for 
c complicated functions. 

;)and $44.91 (diskettes) 



BASIC SCIENTIFIC SUBROUTINES, Volume I (Not available for ATARI) 

DYNACOMP is lhc exclusive distributor for ihe software keyed to the text BASIC Scientific Subroutines. Volume /by F. 
Ruckdeschel (see lhc BYTE/McGraw-Hill advertisement in BYTE magazine, January 1981). These subroutines have been 
assembled according lo chapter. Included with each collection is a menu program which selects and demonstrates each 

Collection l\: Chapters 2 and 3: Dala and function plotting, complex variables 
Collection #2 Chapter 4: Matrix and veclor operations 

Collection Ki: Chapters 5 and 6; Random number generators, series approximations 
Price per collection: 114.95 Casselle 
JI8.95 Diskette 
All three collections are available Tor $19.95 (three cassettes) and $49.95 (ihree diskettes). 

Because ihe lexl is a vital pan of ihe documentation, BASIC Scientific Subroutines. Volume I is available from 
DYNACOMP for 119.95 plus 75; postage and handling. 



Circle 173 on inquiry card. 



Ordering Information 



All orders are processed and shipped postpaid within 48 hours. Please enclose 
mation. If paying by VISA 01 Master Card, include all numbers on card. For t 
p~u.ga.nd handling. 

Add 12.50 10 diskette price Tor 8" floppy disk (IBM formal soft sectored, CP/M, Microsoft BASIC) 
•TRS-80 diskettes arc nol supplied with DOS or BASIC. 

Deduct 10% when ordering 3 or more programs. 

ler. Write for detailed descriptions of these and other program 



DYNACOMP, Inc. 

6 Rippingale Road 

Pittsford, New York 14534 

(716) 586-7579 

New York State reildcnli pleu, idd 7 » NYS ,,le, IM 



Circle 174 on Inquiry card. 



r 



AT LAST! 



Mass production prices (or high quality software. Buy direct and save 50%. Also 
available tor CPM and HDOS. 

DATA BASE MANAGER Mod I & III S69. S149 (48K), Mod II S199 

Maintain a data base and produce reports, all without user programming. Define 
tile parameters and report formats on-line. Key random access, fast multi-key 
sort, field arithmetics, audit log, label. No time-consuming overlays. 500 happy 
user-s in one year. Mod-ll and 48K versions have over50enhancements. including 
40 fields maximum. IDM-M2 is great!' - 80-US. 

A/R Mod-IS69 Mod-ll S149 Mod-Ill S69 

Handles invoices, statements, aging, sales analysis, credit checking, forms input, 
and order entry. Unlike other accounts receivable programs, ours can be used by 
doctors, store managers, etc. 

WORD PROCESSOR S49 

Centers, justifies, indents, and numbers pages. Mod-I version features 
upper /lower case without hardware modification! File merge option available. 

MAILING LIST Mod I & III S59, S79 (48K). Mod-ll S99 

The best 1 Compare and be selective. Includes forms input. 5-digit selection code, 
zip code extension, sort on any field, and multiple labels. Who else offers a report 
writer and merges with word processor? 

INVENTORY Mod I & III S89, S109 (48K) Mod-ll S149 

Fast key random access. Reports include order info, performance summary, EOQ 
and user-specified reports Many people have converted to our system! Next to 
impossible to damage the file.'' 

GL. A/R. A/P. PAYROLL Mod-ll S129 each 

Integrated accounting package 100* page manual As opposed to Osborne's slow 
binary search and 64 column screen, we use fast ISAM and 80 columns. Dual disk 
and TRSDOS required. 

L21B S59 

A cassette package of 10 business programs for Level I1 16 K systems. Includes 
word processor and data base manager. Poker game S19. 

Most programs are on-line, interactive, random-access, bug-free, documented, 
and delivered on disks. Mod-I programs require32K TRSDOS. Were »1 in business 
software— don't let our low price fool you! Ask for our free 20-page catalog if 
you're still not convinced. Compiled versions are available. 



fc* 



MICRO ARCHITECT. INC. 

96 Dothan St., Arlington, MA 02174 



interactive video 

• Provide a sophisticated teaching/training 
system or an audiovisual procedure manual 

• Offer a comprehensive audio-visual data- 
base searchable by keyword 

• Integrate interactive power of the 
computer with audiovisual impact of 
videotape using the same TV screen 

• Use with Apple* or RS-232 computers, 
Sony or Panasonic VCR's 

• Order in Applesoft or PASCAL, Choice of 
Authoring systems. Frame accurate stops 
and switches, no accumulated error 



Cavil 



SYSTEMS, INC. 

26 Trumbull Street, New Haven, CT 06511 
(203) 562-4979 



*TM - Apple Computer Co. 



B2/81 



power even while they are not in motion). The solution 
required removing the motor-driver transistors from the 
main circuit board and adding a piggyback board at the 
motor. 

The new circuit uses three 7486 two-input exclusive- 
OR gates and a flip-flop to determine whether the circuit 
is in the step or the hold mode. A diode and a pass tran- 
sistor are added to determine whether 12 V or 35 V DC 
will be applied to the motor windings. The rest of the cir- 
cuit is similar to the original, except for the addition of 
another set of inverter /drivers, which are necessary 
because the wiring to the motor-winding pairs has been 
reversed. In the hold mode, the diode feeds 12 V to the 
motor windings, enabling them to hold the feed 
mechanism at the current line. When a step signal arrives 
from the processor, the transistor is turned on (by the 
exclusive-OR gates and the flip-flop) and applies 35 V to 
the motor. In this way, the higher voltage is available for 
stepping, when maximum torque is needed. The rest of 
the time, the motor sees only 12 V, and its average 
power-dissipation limit is never exceeded. 

Once again, Heath assures that this tactic, which 
coaxes superior performance from a conventional part, 
will not appreciably shorten its life. Thumb-and-index- 
finger measurement confirms that the motor does not 
become appreciably hotter with the new driver than it did 
with the original one. Apparently, burning the candle at 
both ends works in this instance. 

Configuring the H-14 

When the printer has been assembled and tested, it is 
time to connect it to a computer and do some printing. As 
with most interfacing tasks, this one requires some plan- 
ning. Heath chose to include a 256-character buffer in the 
H-14 so that, for example, a multitasking system could 
fill the buffer and go off to continue other tasks. To 
facilitate this kind of operation, the H-14 can accept serial 
ASCII (American Standard Code for Information Inter- 
change) data at up to 4800 bps (110 to 4800 bps options 
are selected at a switch in the printer). Handshaking be- 
tween the printer and the computer system can take place 
in either of two ways. When the buffer is empty, the H-14 
sends an ASCII Control-Q (hexadecimal 11) on the return 
communication line to its host. When the buffer is full, a 
Control-S (hexadecimal 13) is transmitted. The computer 
software can therefore use these characters as signals to 
start or stop sending data. 

The other handshaking option includes having the 
computer system look at the RTS (Request To Send) line 
from the printer. When the line buffer is empty, RTS is 
on (low), indicating that there is room for sixteen more 
characters; when it is full, RTS goes off. 

I have already mentioned that the H-14 can provide 
variable line widths and line spacings. The 80-column 
and 132-column options can be selected by means of a 
push-button on the front panel. These and all the other 
options can also be obtained through software com- 
mands transmitted in the text. The sequence Escape/u/ 
Control-T, for example, switches the output from 
80-column to 96-column format; an Escape/y sets the line 
spacing to 8; the Form Feed (hexadecimal OC) executes a 
carriage return and a form feed. The front panel also has 
Feed Forward and Feed Reverse buttons which can be 
used to position the print head at the top of a form, when 
the printer is switched off-line. 

One option which will probably not be offered for the 



258 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Ire 



Circle 175 on Inquiry card. 



THE PERFECT MARRIAGE 



CHRISLIN 256KB MEMORY 




minim i/i/i 





iMk Ml itt ^^ *^L ^^ i^k |g^ m^ I 'MJ^f '* 

bBBBbBbBB wLv 



lllllllll 



uu\\\\\\\v\\\\\\ 



DEC® LSI® 11/23 



NOW AVAILABLE! 256KB memory on a dual height board only $1 925. CHRISLIN INDUSTRIES 
now offers state-of-the-art 64K RAM Memory system designs. Like our recently introduced 
512KB MULTIBUS® compatible single card memory our 256KB LSI 11/23 memory is an 
industry first. 

Free up critical and expensive backplane space. Saves you 3 dual slots. 

Addressable in 4K increments up to 4 Megabytes. 

On board parity generator checker totally DEC hardware and software compatible. 

Single 5 volt power requirement. 

Battery back-up capability. 256KB unit draws less than 300 ma at 5 volts in battery back-up 
mode. 

Tested and burned in. Full year warranty. 



DON'T ASK WHY WE CHARGE SO LITTLE, ASK WHY THEY CHARGE SO MUCH. 



« 



Chrislin Industries, Inc. 

Computer Products Division 
31352 Via Colinas • Westlake Village, CA 91362 • 213-991-2254 



Multibus is a trademark ohne Intel Corp t SI II is a trademark ol Digital Equipment Corp 



Circle 176 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 259 



H-14 is an F8 processor with different programming to 
permit graphics printing. The reason is the lack of pro- 
gram and table space in the processor. Another con- 
sideration is that the paper movement is not reversible 
because of the H-14's rear paper inlet. One is tempted to 
try to feed the paper through the ventilation slot in the 
bottom plate of the enclosure — it is in just the right posi- 
tion below the print head and platen. An LED and photo- 
diode are mounted in the normal feed path, however, to 
detect the out-of-paper condition. If the paper were 
brought in through the bottom of the cabinet, modifica- 
tions to a paper guide would have to be made and the 
paper-detector feature would have to be sacrificed. 

The Results 

The print output of the H-14 is pleasing to the eye and 
easy to read, even when the 132-column format is used. 
The ribbon is canted a few degrees to minimize ink drain- 
ing caused by the print head's covering the same area of 
the ribbon in repeated passes across the page. The ribbon 
can be canted further by shifting washers under its 
pulley. This gives additional protection from draining. 

The spacing between the tractor-feed gears is ad- 
justable, so that they can accept papers from 5.5 to 
24.5 cm (2V2 to 9V2 inches) wide. Although I normally 
use 24.5 cm (9V2-inch) forms which can be burst to a 
22 cm (8V2-inch) page, I have also used 22 cm multiform 
paper and 8 cm (3V2-inch) wide label forms. The H-14 
handles the heavy labels very well, and it easily pulls 
20-pound paper from a box on the floor, two feet below 
the feed inlet. 




CURE TO 

SOFTWARE 

PROBLEMS 



PROFESSIONAL SOFTWARE 

Medical, Dental & Legal Systems, 
Accounting & Financial, Educational, 
Word Processing, Office Management 

Check your Local Dealer or Contact: 

Chofle/ fllonn & A//ociote/ 

7594 San Remo Trail 

Yucca Valley, Ca. 92284 

(714) 365-9718 



Apple II 



TRS-80 



Tl 99/4 



Is the H-14 the All-American Printer? 

A number of new, inexpensive impact printers have 
entered the market since the H-14 was first advertised in 
January 1979. IDS, C Itoh, and Anadex are a few of the 
companies which have produced under-$1000 offerings 
with a variety of features. A buyer faced with the task of 
choosing among them will do well to check the perfor- 
mance specifications very closely. The H-14's need for 
cool-down time after printing ten or fifteen pages could 
be annoying in an office environment. On the other 
hand, some of the units that can print continuously may 
have no thermal overload protection and rely on the of- 
fice air conditioning to keep things cool. Others have 
long duty cycles, but do not offer variable page and line 
widths. 

The H-14 is a particularly good choice for the personal- 
computer user because it not only performs well, but it 
should be inexpensive to maintain. It accepts a standard 
B-72 Teletype ribbon that can be purchased at most office 
supply stores for two or three dollars. If the kit is 
assembled, the buyer has a working knowledge of the 
construction of the unit and can probably repair 
mechanical faults which might develop. The excellent 
testing and troubleshooting guides included in each of the 
printer's two manuals cover most electrical problems. 

Finally, there are Heath's own service and parts distri- 
bution facilities. Service is available in many cities at 
Heathkit stores, and parts are shipped from the factory 
within 24 hours of a telephone call, if a credit-card 
number is provided. 

Parts are not expensive, by the way. The most expen- 
sive is the print head itself, which costs $133. The next 
dearest (excluding the power transformer) are the paper- 
drive motor and F8 microprocessor, priced at $15.95 and 
$14.90, respectively. Considering that a service contract 
for a commercial printer can cost in excess of $50 per 
month and that a service call to replace an ailing circuit 
board has been known to cost over $125, the H-14 
should, indeed, be very economical to operate, even in 
the unlikely event that a part should fail. 

The H-14 does not quite satisfy my criteria for the All- 
American line printer, but it is certainly an excellent buy 
and, more important, a tough competitor for the title. ■ 



A Public Service of This Magazine & The Advertising Council 

Need help? 
Callus. ■£ 



CjOUKH 



Red Cross 
counting 
on you. 



260 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 177 on inquiry card. 



Is BASIC too SLOW? 

OSBORNE/ 
McGraw-Hill's 
Assembly Language 
books help you 
speed up your 
programs 




by Lance 
Leventhal 



by Lance Leventhal 



Assembly language programming is fast and efficient. For 
some applications, like computer animation or close control of 
peripherals, its speed makes it indispensable. 

Now Osborne/McGraw-Hill helps to simplify assembly 
language programming. You needn't know anything about 
assembly language to use our ALP series. Each book is a 
straightforward, self-teaching textbook that is both 
concise and easy to understand. Each book 
explains assembly language programming, 
describes the function of assemblers, 
structured programming, and presents 
over 80 fully debugged practical 
programming examples. 

Table of Contents: 

Introduction to Assembly Language Programming 
Assemblers 

The Assembly Language Instruction Set 
Simple Programs 
Simple Program Loops 
Character Coded Data 
Code Conversion 
Arithmetic Problems 
Tables and Lists 
Subroutines 
Input/Output 
Interrupts 

Problem Definition and 
Program Design 



by Lance Leventhal 
Adam Osborne 
Chuck Collins 



Debugging and Testing 
Documentation and Redesign 
Sample Projects 




by Lance 
Leventhal 



by Lance Leventhal 



h&> 



Name. 



Address. 



City_ 
State. 



.ZIP. 



Phone. 



HOW TO SHIP. 



ef>. 



OSBORNE/McGraw-HIII 
630 Bancroft Way, Dept. B12 
Berkeley, California 947 lO 



m 



', *°ok 


Price 


Qty 


Amount 


':' 6809 Assembly Language Programming 

-^- now available 


Si 6.99 






6502 Assembly Language Programming 


516.99 






ZBO Assembly Language Programming 


516.99 






68OO Assembly Language Programming 


515.99 






S080A/8085 Assembly Language Programming 


515.99 






ZSOOO Assembly Language Programming 


519.99 






The 8O86 Book 


516.99 






To order, return coupon with check or money Tax 
order. Include 75« per Item for 4th class mail, 
SI .25 per book UPS, or S2.50 per book air mail In the U. S. Shipping 






California residents also Include local sales tax. ti-vtai 
To place an order by phone, call: 415/548-2805 TOTAL 





1123 



Circle 178 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



261 



Product Review 



Zork, The Great Underground Empire 



Bob Liddil, POB 66, Peterborough NH 03458 



Deep within the inky underground 
Lurk things only half whispered of 
And twisty hidden passages 
Which hide both treasure and death. 
But who can deny the challenge 
Offered to he who would trespass here, 
For would not the lure of gold and glory 
Be worth more to a man than breath? 

From Song of Zork by 
Freerover the Bard 

Adventure has evolved many times during its short 
history. From Crowther's and Wood's creation to the 
genius of Scott Adams to the wild antics of Greg Hassett, 
the journey has been exciting and entertaining for the 
fans of inventive computer puzzles. No single advance in 
the science of Adventure has been as bold and exciting as 
the introduction of Personal Software Inc's Zork, The 
Great Underground Empire. 

The first thing that everyone will look for when Zork 
boots up is the blinking cursor, and the "I AM..." and 
"YOU SEE..." format that Scott Adams has popularized 
in his nine Adventures. That is not the case here. The 
screen layout is arranged in such a way as to move the 



Af a ninnro 


Name 


Language 


Zork, The Great 


Z80 machine code 


Underground Empire 


Computer 




Radio Shack TRS-60 


Type 


Model I with 32 K 


Adventure game 


bytes of memory and 




one disk drive 


Manufacturer 




Personal Software Inc 


Documentation 


1330 Bordeaux Dr 


Printed instructions 


Sunnyvale CA 94086 


included 


(408) 745-7841 






Audience 


Price 

$39.95 


Anyone interested in 


Adventure or fantasy 




gaming 


Format 


Backup Capability 


5-inch floppy disk 


None apparent 



WHERE prompt (which gives your current location in the 
game) down to the bottom of the screen. I found this 
most useful after reading ten or twelve lines of detailed 
area description. Additionally, the number of turns 
elapsed, the number of points accumulated, and the loca- 
tion form an information display on the bottom line of 
the screen. Other game information scrolls upward as the 
game progresses, giving a very professional screen layout 
for the game. 

If you happen not to have an unlimited amount of time 
to spend with your computer, Zork has a SAVE com- 
mand that allows you to save your position in the game 
onto a blank, initialized floppy disk. While some 
cowards use it to retain their hard-earned position in the 
game before making some dangerous move, the true pur- 
pose of this command is to let you follow the game 
through to its ultimate end (which may take weeks), or as 
protection against losing your position due to, say, a 
brief power failure. 

Zork comes on a write-protected single-density 5-inch 
disk with what appears to be its own operating system 
doing the booting and initialization. The disk defied ex- 
amination by the most sophisticated methods available to 
me. I hope that Personal Software (which distributes 
Zork) will be able to foil the software pirates and traders 
for a while. The disk seems to be absolutely uncopyable. 

Loading and preparing for play is simple enough. 
Merely insert the Zork disk into drive and press the 
reset button of your computer. When the program is up 
and running, a pleasant block cursor greets you. You are 
now ready to play Zork. 

Zork requires a 32 K-byte disk system (in this case, a 
Radio Shack TRS-80 Model I with 32 K bytes of memory 
and one disk drive) due to the eloquence of the descrip- 
tions and the large number of locations that are stored on 
the disk to be recalled at the appropriate times during the 
game. The advance copy I used had no instructions, so, 
in the beginning, I played a fairly straight game of 
Adventure. 

I was eager to test Zork's biggest selling point, 
intelligent input (ie: its ability to accept free-form instruc- 
tions). I typed "OPEN THE BAG AND GET THE 
LUNCH," in reference to a brown paper sack inside the 
house. The computer complied. There was water and 
food, so I typed "EAT THE LUNCH AND DRINK THE 
WATER," to which the computer responded with 
gratitude for satisfying its hunger and thirst. 

I was hooked. 



262 Febiuary 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



QMEG A "WHOLESALE COMPUTER PRICES" 
sales DIRECT TO THE PUBLIC 

co - 12 Meeting St., Cumberland, RI 02864 




I lntcrtec Superbrainl 
32K Ram - $2449 
64K Ram • $2649 



PRODUCT SPECIAL 

of the MONTH!! 




NEC spinwritcr 
5510 5530 - $2449 




Apple II- 16K$ 949 
48K$1099 





Diablo 630 
H995 

52195 (with tractor feed) 



Products are 

NOW 

IN 

STOCK 

AT 

OMEGA 

Sales 

Co. 



Televideo 
, 912 B or C 
920 C - 



»699| 
'7691 



Centronics 
(limited quantities- 
call for availability) 
779-11 ' 749 

704-9 '1500 

730-3 » 599 

737-1 ' 699 



OMEGA OFFERS THE BEST DELIVERY AND PRICE ON: 
APPLE • ATARI • TRS-80 Model II • INTERTEC • 

DIABLO • EPSON • HEWLETT-PACKARD • SOROC • 
COMMODORE • NEC • QUME • CENTRONICS 



CALL TOLL FREE FOR OMEGA'S PRICE! 

1-800-556-7586 



OMEGA sells only quality merchandise to our customers. 
OMEGA will try to match any current advertised price with similar purchase conditions. 

Before you buy anywhere else — be sure to call OMEGA Sales Co. 

1-401-722-1027 



OMEGA " A member in good standing of the better business bureau." 



OMEGA ships via UPS, truck, or air. COD's. 
Visa, Mastercharge accepted, with no service charge. 



Circle 179 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



Exploring Zork 

This Adventure begins in a beautiful forest near a large 
white house that is boarded up in an obvious attempt to 
keep explorers out. I managed to get into the house 
through the front once, but I was plunged into darkness 
and eaten by a monster called a grue. The game gave me 
the option of reincarnating myself, which I did (at a cost 
to myself of 10 points). I was revived in a forest. 

Beyond the forest is a deep and beautiful canyon 
through which the River Frigid flows. This was the first 
time I had ever been at the end of the rainbow. No, I 
didn't see a pot of gold, but just because I didn't see it 
doesn't mean it wasn't there. 

In these three locations (ie: house, forest, canyon), the 
descriptions were lavish, sparing no words in their 
bestowal of clues and information to the player. An 
ordinary jeweled treasure, in the form of a bird's egg, 
more than once sent me scurrying to the dictionary in 
search of the meanings of some of the words used to 
describe it. 

There are many tools available to the explorer. I was 
able to obtain a lantern (light wards off grues), a length of 
rope, a nasty-looking knife, an elvish sword (which 
glows for reasons of its own), a refillable water bottle, a 
lunch, and garlic (which presumably repels Were-beings 
or Vampires, though I encountered none). Armed with 
these things, I entered the Underground Empire in search 
of gold and glory. 

There was this pugnacious troll who popped up in the 
middle of a room description early in the game. Here, I 
got a chance to test thescombat capabilities of the game. I 



Desk Main/Frame 



Desk Main/Frame 

LOW COST & ATTRACTIVE STYLING 

• MAIN/FRAME INTEGRATED INTO FURNITURE QUALITY DESK 

• ELECTRONICS PACKAGE SLIDE MOUNTED FOR EASY ACCESS 

• SUPPORTS TWO 8" FLOPPY DRIVES FROM SEVERAL MANUFAC- 
TURERS (DRIVES NOT INCLUDED) 

• 10 SLOT MOTHERBOARD INCLUDES CONNECTORS 

• POWER SUPPLY FOR DRIVES AND CARDS 

• DESK AND MAIN/FRAME AVAILABLE SEPARATELY 

• MATCHING PRINTER DESK AVAILABLE 



WRITE OR CALL FOR OUR BROCHURE WHICH INCLUDES 
OUR APPLICATION NOTE: 'BUILDING CHEAP COMPUTERS' 

INTEGRAND 

8474 Ave. 296 • Visalia, CA 93277 • (209) 733-9288 
We accept BankAmericard/Visa and MasterCharge 



typed "ATTACK TROLL", to which the computer sup- 
plied a supplemental <with hands > . Look out! 
Remembering that the program accepts more complex in- 
put, and, having survived the first combat turn, I typed 
"ATTACK TROLL WITH SWORD." This gave more 
satisfactory results: the troll expired, his body obligingly 
turning to black smoke in the interest of litter-free 
dungeon delving. 

A thief came along shortly thereafter and challenged 
my right to exist in Zork. I typed "THROW KNIFE". He 
caught it in his sack and dispatched me to the nether- 
world, all in one swift motion. I could still hear him 
laughing as I lay ruefully reincarnated on the forest floor. 
I was ten points lighter and my possessions were scattered 
to the four winds. Sadder but wiser, I reentered the lower 
levels after 20 minutes of rounding up those items that 
were absolutely needed. 

More cautious now, I explored the passages and tun- 
nels of Zork (level 1). There are no unwarranted loca- 
tions here — unless you can count the presence of a dam 
with color-coded control buttons in a maintenance room. 
Gleefully, I began pushing buttons, something I should 
know better than to do, as a veteran of the Death Dread- 
nought and Strange Odyssey Adventures. When the 
water level began rising, I was not concerned. Then I 
drowned. 

The program was really getting testy with me by now. 
Grudgingly I was reincarnated by the Patron Deity who 
guards the souls of all Adventurers. Empty-handed once 
more, I resumed my journey. I retraced my steps to the 
Loud Room, where whatever you say is echoed. Then, 
after 768 turns and an afternoon of unparalleled enjoy- 
ment, my luck ran out. I became Grue Munchies, part of 
the balanced diet of silly dungeon players allotted to 
those carnivorous native dark dwellers of Zork. 

On other occasions, I have been expelled from Zork on 
multiple charges of being a reckless Adventurer. None- 
theless, armed with the dubious rank of Amateur Ex- 
plorer and my knowledge of the highest levels, I am look- 
ing forward to the time when I will plunge once more into 
the troll-, thief-, and grue-laden depths of the Under- 
ground Empire. 

Zork, as peer to the Microsoft Adventure and heir 
apparent to the throngs of Adventure cultists who wait 
breathlessly for each new offering, is equal to the 
awesome task it has been given. That the program is 
entertaining, eloquent, witty, and precisely written is 
almost beside the point. Unlike the kingdoms of the 
Adventures for machines with 16 K bytes of memory and 
far from the classic counter-earthiness of the Colossal 
Cave in the original Adventure, Zork can be felt and 
touched — experienced, if you will — through the care and 
attention to detail the authors have rendered. 

I've been to Zork today. Tomorrow, I will take a 
friend. Together we will unwrap the cloaks of mystery 
surrounding this most excellent and memorable work of 
computerized fiction. And when we have extracted from 
this land every drop of adventuring that can be obtained, 
we will likely not be kept waiting. A sequel is nearing 
completion, even as this is being written. 

Somebody, please, let me know when it's done.H 



264 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 180 on inquiry card. 



COMPUTING POWER FOR THE 80'S 



8Mhz. 



8086 



WITH 



MICROSOFT 



BASIC 



OPENS THE DOOR TO HIGHSPEED 16-BIT COMPUTING 



BASIC-86 



IT'S THE STANDARD — This BASIC is essentially identical to 
version 5 of Microsoft's BASIC interpreter, the accepted standard 
with widely available application programs. Programs distributed in 
CP/M® format are easily converted to the 86-DOS system. (CP/M is 
a registered trademark of Digital Research.) 

IT'S FAST — It is two to seven times faster that BASIC-80 on a 4 
Mhz. Z-80, depending upon application. 



BREAKING THE 64K BARRIER — How many of you can run an 
extended disk BASIC and see the message "63309 Bytes free" 
when it signs on? 

RUNS UNDER 86-DOS — Our high-performance operating system 
can load the 30K BASIC interpreter in less than 2 seconds. 
LOADing and SAVEing BASIC programs is done with similar 
speed. 



8086 HARDWARE 



MEMORY — Our two card 8086 CPU set is the only high- 
performance 16-bit processor for the S-100 bus that allows using 
standard 8-bit memories for economy or IEEE 16-bit memories for 
speed — in any mix. 

16-BIT OR EXTENDED ADDRESSING — Special circuitry is 
included to allow memories without IEEE extended addressing to 
be used in systems with more than 64K (uses PHANTOM). 



FAST 8 MHZ. OPERATION — Gives you high performance without 
requiring expensive memory. Most any 250 nsec. static memory 
board will do the job. Or, at the flip of a switch, a 4 Mhz. clock may 
be selected and/or a wait state may be added. 

2-CARQ CPU SET — Includes serial I/O, parallel I/O, a monitor in 
2716 EPROM, a time-of-day clock, and a very flexible and 
expandable vectored interrupt system. 



86-DOS m 



THIS HIGH-PERFORMANCE disk operating system provides a 
hardware-independent environment for running programs. By pre- 
senting a high-level interface for disk and peripheral I/O, the 
operating system relieves a considerable burden from the program. 

DEVELOPMENT SOFTWARE — 86-DOS provides a complete 
package of development software, including editor, assembler, 



debugger, Z80 to 8086 source code translator, and utilities 



I/O CONFIGURATION — The hardware-dependent portions of the 
I/O system have been isolated into a single module. Full specifica- 
tions are provided to allow customizing the module for a given 
hardware configuration. 



From Seattle Computer, the System Design Experts 



The products described here are only the beginning of a 
broad line of high-performance hardware and software 
products for the 80's. All of it is designed with "The Big 
Picture" — the total system — in mind. 

For highest reliability, all of our hardware uses bus 
receivers which exceed the IEEE specifications by including 



hysteresis. The system already includes complete hardware 
support for the multi-user superset of 86-DOS that will be 
released later this year. And our future products, such as a 
high-speed DMA controller for floppy and hard disks, will 
demonstrate an even further support for fast multi-user 
systems. 



Prices: 8 Mhz. 2-card CPU set, fully assembled, tested, guaran- 
teed, documented, 86-DOS included — $595; BASIC-86 — $350. 
Sale price ot $280 for 8/1 6 1 6-bit RAM ends March 1 . Manuals for all 
SCP products may also be purchased separately. Overseas orders 
must be prepaid in US funds and include $10 per board for air 
shipment. 

Circle 181 on inquiry card. 






i Seattle Computer Products, Inc. 

^ f ^ 1 1 14 Industry Drive, Seattle, WA. 98188 

(206) 575-1830 

BYTE February 1981 265 



Programming Quickies 



Energy-Saving 
Cost /Benefit Analysis 



Richard Hetherington 

637 Pendleton Ave, Apt D 

Chicopee MA 01020 



The recent skyrocketing cost of energy makes us think 
of ways of conserving heat and saving money, whether 
by increased home insulation, using storm windows, 
lowering the thermostat, or any number of other 
methods. Cost versus benefit is always debated. How 
many times have you asked yourself: will the cost of 
adding 6 inches of insulation to the attic far outweigh the 
benefits? 

In order to answer the cost/benefit question relating to 
home insulation, the mechanism of heat travel must be 
understood. I will briefly review the concepts of heat 
transfer, what influences it, and show how to use a 
BASIC program to make the cost/benefit decision. 

Heat Transfer 

Heat can travel between locations by any of three 
mechanisms: conduction, convection, or radiation. 

Conduction is the flow of heat by molecular vibration 
and is usually associated with transfer through solids. For 
example, when a spoon is placed in a cup of hot coffee, 
the spoon gets hot by conduction of heat from the liquid. 

Convection is the transport of heat through a fluid 
transporting medium by fluid movement caused by dif- 
ferences in density due to different temperatures, as when 
air picks up heat from a radiator in the home and 
distributes it throughout a room. 

Radiation transports heat through electromagnetic 
energy, which is absorbed and converted to heat energy 
by a solid material. For instance, if you stand close to a 
blazing fireplace the radiant heat can become unbearable. 

Heat can be lost from your home by all three mechan- 
isms, but in most cases, the loss by conduction is most 
significant and is our main consideration. 

The flow of heat from one place to another by steady- 
state conduction can be expressed by: 

Q = TxA/R 

where: Q = heat flow in BTU (British thermal 

units) /hour 
T = temperature difference in °F (degrees 



Fahrenheit) 

A = area of heat flow in square feet 
R = resistance to heat flow in 
hour-square-feet- °F/BTU 

The resistance to heat flow is related to the thickness of 
the material through which the heat is flowing, and the 
thermal conductivity (shown in table 1) of the material. 
For flat surfaces, it is found by: 

R = L/K 

where: L = thickness of material in inches 

K = thermal conductivity of the material 
in BTU-inches/hour-square-feet-°F 

If the heat is traveling through more than one material 
then R is expressed as: 

R = U/K, + L 2 /K 2 + L3/K3 + ... 

where: L l( L 2 , L 3 ... = the thickness of each 

material through which the heat flows 
Ki, K 2 , K 3 ... = the thermal conductivity 
of each material 

The R value can be calculated for any number of 
materials sandwiched together as long as the thickness 
and thermal conductivity of each material is known. 

Looking at the formulas, you can see that the flow of 
heat depends on the temperature difference, the area it 
flows over, and the thickness and thermal conductivity of 
the material it flows through. Using these three formulas, 
you can readily calculate heat loss by conduction through 
flat surfaces. 

Once the rate of heat loss is known, its cost can be 
calculated. Table 2 lists common fuels, the heating value 
of the fuel, and approximate cost of that fuel. The cost of 
the fuels will vary significantly depending on your loca- 
tion and the quantity purchased. For maximum accuracy, 
modify the fuel costs in table 2 to match the particulars of 
where you live. 



266 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 




computer 
products, inc. 



NEW LOCATION 

1198 E. Willow Street 

Signal Hill, CA 90806 

(CALL COLLECT) 

(213) 595-6431,6432,6433 



ATARI 800 

(NEW 16K VERSION) 

'COMPUTER CONSOLE -OPERATORS MANUAL 
'ATARI BASIC BK RAM »RF MODULATOR 
■57 FULL STROKE -POWER SUPPLY 

ALPHANUMERIC KEYS * ADDED OPTIONS 
PLUS 4 FUNCTION KEYS-JOYSTICKS 
■INVITATION TO PRO- -EDUCATION ROM 
GRAMMING CASSETTE (NO CHARGE) 
CALL FOR PRICE 
10% OFF SOFTWARE WITH PURCHASE 



ATARI OPTIONAL ACCESSORIES 

MODEL #810 DISK DRIVE SYSTEM 
MODEL #820 40-COL. DOT MATRIX PRINTER 
MODEL #822 40-COL. THERMAL PRINTER 
MODEL #825 80-COL. DOT MATRIX PRINTER 
MODEL #830 ACOUSTIC MODEM 
MODEL #850 INTERFACE MODULE 
MODEL #CX853 16K RAM MODULE 

CALL FOR PRICE & AVAILABILITY 



■'■■■■■ J a mm mmiswg&mi*& 


. ■ ■ 


.- 'imps;. 


MICROBYTE 








% -Quad RS-232C Serial Pons. 
1 20mA Currant Loop Porl 




.JB|JJ'BBS:||-3 




\ -Fully IEEE S-ICDBus Como 
I •Asynchronous Communical 
■ wiln ZBOA Dflf|it«|orSyncri 
I Communications wilh Z80A 
j SlO/OilMI 
5 'Full Sel ot Modem Conliol E 

| includingRI (Ring Indicator) 


yfeP 


■■■■;■■ 


*■■ •';■: : ■■:;,: ■':■ 


I "I/O Servicing Environments: 
| 0) Polled; (2) Bus Vector; 
| (3) ZBOMOdBZ Vector 
f 'Oil. Board Inleirupl Daisy C 



I/O Board $249.00 z^z.tzrJ: 

Assembled & Tested :;r«", 11™ £ ""* " 




single b 



ird Z 60A CPU 
> proposed 



•A compleli 
with 5cri.il/parnllcl mil 

• Fully compahtile with 
IEEE S-100 Bus Standi 

•Z-80A CPU (4MH; version of tho Z-flO) 
■superselol and 
e from the BOSO's 

•Up to 4K ol on board Eprom wilh 
Optional Z-flO monitor program — 
1K(2708). 2K(2716)or 4K(2732) 

• Full veclored inlorrupl capability — 



MSB in 



Z-80A/I-O $335.00 

Assembled & Tested 
Optional Monitor Program $50.00 



for e 



', MREQ*. IOHQ* 



a ROM 



Dual FIS-232 serial I/O pons us 
lha Z80A-DART with Individual 
(from 50-19,200 or 
arallel I/O port— f 
p/Oflrammablfl Intel 8255A 



•Up 



ORDERING INFO 



Name, address, phone, 

Ship By: UPS or Mail 

Shipping Chrg. Add $2.50 up to 

5 lbs. (UPS Blue) 

U.S. Mail Add $1.50 (U.S. Only) 

($25.00 Minimum Order) 



A-r An • SOFTWARE & 
A I AHI ACCESSORIES 

BASKETBALL ROM $30.00 

SUPER-BREAKOUT ROM $30.00 
STAR RAIDERS ROM $45.00 

CHESS ROM $30.00 

VIDEO EASEL ROM $30.00 

MUSIC COMPOSER ROM $45.00 
3D TIC TAC TOE ROM $30.00 

JOYSTICKS $18.00 

PADDLE CONTROLS $18.00 

#410CASSETTE RECORDER $60.00 
ASK ABOUT NEW SOFTWARE 



MICROBYTE 

le ollliaan NEC765 LSI 



■ ; '<:■.■■ ' • : 



: i: = 1^ recovery Is, ,c: 3 lly re, 

4 lllil 

Disc Controller $349.00 :§|fff""" r 

Assembled & Tested .s.„".V; cc ''.",*pi,ir,,ae,,r,,, 







64K RAM Board 

Assembled & Tested 



MICROBYTE 

ully SlOObeis ; e':i::r.nelr 



V Wltrl LED leal 



Call lor Price 



MHK=U.I=H 

VERBATIM MD525-01 (SOFT) 
SCOTCH 744-0 (SOFT SECTOR) 
SCOTCH 744-10 (10 SECTOR) 
SCOTCH 744-16 (16 SECTOR) 
MEMOREX 3401 (SOFT SECTOR) 
SCOTCH 743-0(DS/DD SOFT) 



l.'.M?ltM:H 

LEEDEX 100, 12" B&W $129.00 

LEEDEX 100-80, 80x24 B&W $165.00 

SANYO VM4509, 9" B&W $175.00 

SANYO VM5012, 12" B&W $240.00 

SANYO DMC6013, 13" COLOR $450.00 

HITACHI COLOR MONITOR $395.00 



QUMEDT-8.DBL SIDED 
DBL DENSITY 8" DRIVE 
SHUGART SA801R DRIVE 
CABLES AVAILABLE 
CALL FOR PRICE 



S.D. SYSTEMS 



EnEnug 

$27.50 CENTRONICS 737-1 
$35.00 ANADEX DP8000 
$3500 ANADEX DP9500 
$25.00 ANADEX DP9501 
$50.00 TEXAS INST 810 
BASE 2 800 MST 



CALL FOR 
PRICE 



NOVATION CAT 

300 BAUD, AUTO 
ANSWER/ACOUSTIC 

$149.00 ea. 

NOVATION D-CAT 

300 BAUD/DIRECT 
CONNECT 

$169.00 ea. 

(OPTIONAL RS232 
CABLE $22.00) 

LIVERMORE 

LIV-STAR 20M/300 BAUD 

RS232, ACOUSTIC, 

AUTO ANSWER, ETC. 

$159.00 



APPLE 
SOFTWARE 



BY EDU-WARE 

COMPU-MATH (FRACTIONS) 
$29.95 

COMPU-MATH (DECIMALS) 
$29.95 

COMPU-READ 
$19.95 

EDU-PAK I, CONTAINS 

COMPU-READ, PERCEPTION 

STATISTICS $35.00 

H?..H.W-1I.T,I3T¥1 



MICROBYTE D 2 



<tO-|QC00 
FLOPPY DISK SYSTEM ^^ ' SyJ 

•(2) QUME DT-8, DMA S-100 CONTROLLER, 
POWER SUPPLY, CABINET, ASSEMBLED 
& TESTED WITH CABLE. 

LESS CONTROLLER $1875°° 



TERRORIST 

WINDFALL 

NETWORK 

SPACE 

PRISONER 



$24.95 
$16.95 
$16.95 
$24.95 
$24.95 



ALL SOFTWARE IS ON DISK. 

PLEASE CALL IF YOU 

HAVE ANY QUESTIONS. 



EXPANDORAMI 

2MHz DYNAMIC 
RAM BOARD 



EXPANDORAM II 

4 MHz DYNAMIC 
RAM BOARD 



16K $230.00 
32K $258.00 
48K $286.00 
64K $314.00 

16K $245.00 

32K $273.00 

48K $301.00 

64K $329.00 



SBC-100 KIT $275.00 

2.5 MHz/Z-80 CPU 

WITH SERIAL & PARALLEL 

I/O PORTS 

SBC-200KIT $300.00 

4 MHz/Z-80 CPU 

WITH SERIAL & PARALLEL 

I/O PORTS 

VDB-8024 KIT $350.00 

80x24 I/O MAPPED VIDEO BOARD 
WITH KEYBOARD I/O 



S-100 PRODUCTS 



VERSAFLOPPY I KIT $230.00 

DISK CONTROLLER FOR 
8" & 5%" DRIVES 
S-100 BUS COMPATIBLE 

VERSAFLOPPY II KIT $330.00 

NEW DOUBLE DENSITY 
DISK CONTROLLER FOR 
8" & 5V." DRIVES 

PROM-100KIT $190.00 

S-100/EPROM PROGRAMMER 
FOR 2708, 2716, 2732, 2758 & 
2516(TI) 

ALL BOARDS ARE AVAILABLE 

(ASSEMBLED & TESTED) 
CALL FOR PRICE & DELIVERY 



(SYSTEM SOFTWARE) 
AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST) 



CALIFORNIA COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS 



MODEL 2016 
2032 
2065 
2116 
2200 
2400 
2422 
2501 
2710 
2718 
2720 
2802 
2810 
5400 
5416 



16K STATIC RAM BRD. 

32K STATIC RAM BRD. 

64K DYNAMIC RAM BD. 

16K STATIC RAM BD. 

MAINFRAME 

MINI-8100S 

DISK CONTROLLER 

MOTHERBOARD 

4-PORT SERIAL I/O 

2 SER. PORT & 2 PAR. 

4-PORT PARALLEL I/O 

6502 CPU BOARD 

Z-80 CPU BOARD 

MINI-8100 

THE-8100 



CALL FOR PRICE 
& DELIVERY 

(SOFTWARE AVAILABLE) 



TERMS 



We Accept Cash, Check, Money 

Orders, Visa & Master Charge 

(U.S. Funds Only) 

Tax: 6% Calif. Res. 

COD'S & Terms Available on 

Approval (School PO's Accepted) 



4116's (200NS) 

(APPLE, TRS-80, HEATH, ETC.) 

8 for $30.00 

16-49 pes. 3.60 

50-99 pes. 3.40 

100-499 pes. 3.25 

500 Up 2.95 



IJil[H:t»]J:CW=WiM:kH 

8080A 2.50 

Z80A 10.00 

320T5 80 

320T12 80 

340T5 70 

340T12 75 



LO-PRO SOCKETS 



14 PIN 
16 PIN 
18 PIN 
20 PIN 
24 PIN 
28 PIN 
40 PIN 



1-99 

.10 
.12 
.15 
.23 
.26 
.30 
.40 



100 Up 

.09 
.11 
.13 
.21 
.24 
.28 
.38 



(BURNDY/TIN SOLDERTAIL) 



RS-232 CONNECTORS 



1-9 10-24 25 Up 

DB25P 2.75 2.56 2.35 
DB25S 3.80 3.70 3.60 
Data Phone Hood$1. 35 ea. 



COMPONENTS 



74LS240 1.35 ea. 

74LS241 1.25 ea. 

74LS244 1.25ea. 

74LS373 1.50 ea. 

74LS374 1.50ea. 

8T245 1.65ea. 



2114 L-2/200 NS 



1-16 




$3.85 ea 


17-49 




$3.65 ea 


50-99 




$3.40 ea 


100-499 




$3.15 ea 


500 Up 




$2.95 ea 


2708/450 NS 




$6.25 


ea. 




or 






8/$48.00 



2716/5 VOLT 



$10.00 ea. 

(INTEL, TOSHIBA, ETC.) 
100-Pc. Price $8.00 ea. 



CAPACITORS 



12 Volts Ceramic 
90 ea. 

OR 
100/8.00 



Circle 182 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 267 



Circle 183 on inquiry card. 



MAIL ORDER DISCOUNTS 



"apple computer 

Sales and Service 




APPLE II PLUS 48K 

$999 



APPLE #// CALL FOR PRICES 

ACCESSORIES 




DISK II DRIVE & CONTROLLER (DOS 3.3) 525 

DISK II DRIVEONLY 420 

INTEGER BASIC FIRMWARE CARD 149 

APPLESOFT II FIRMWARE CARD 149 

M&RSURR-MOD RF MODULATOR 30 

CENTRONICS PRINTER INTERFACE CARD . .179 

HIGHSPEED SERIAL INTERFACE CARD 139 

LEEDEX VIDEO 100 12" B8.W MONITOR 139 



290 



MIC ROSOFT 2-80 SOFTCARO SYSTEM 
V1DEX 80 COLUMN BOARD 

W/GRAPHICS AND SWITCH 350 

HAYES MICROMODEM II 315 

SILENT YPE PRINTER W/INT. CARD 495 

LANGUAGE SYSTEM W/PASCAL 395 

GRAPHICS TABLET 649 

ALF MUSIC SYNTHESIZER 235 



SOFTWARE 



APPLE FORTRAN 159 

PFSSOFTWARE 85 

APPLE DOS TOOL KIT 65 

APPLEPLOT GRAPH & PLOT SYSTEM 60 

CCA DATA MANAGEMENT 85 



515 



THE CONTROLLER BUSINESS SYSTEM 

THE CASHIER RETAIL MANAGEMENT 1B9 

VIS1CALC 115 

APPLEWRITER TEXT EDITOR 59 

BASF5V*" DISKETTE(IO) 30 



CALL FOR PRICES AND SELECTIONS OF PRINTERS AND MONITORS 

TO ORDER: Please phone using VISA, Master Card and American Express. Or 
send cashier's check, money order or personal check {allow 10 business days lo 
clear). VISA and MC credit card service add 2%. AE credit card service add 5%. 

Shipping, handling and insurance add 3% (minimum $3). California residents add 
6% sales tax. Equipment is subject to price change and availability. All equipment 
carries factory warranty. 

computer age. inc. 

Authorized Apple Dealer & Service Center 
4688 CONVOY ST., SUITE 105, SAN DIEGO, CA 92111 (714) 565-4042 




-•" Clock/Calendar 

CompvtefW atch 

Now available on Three Buses 

Features *APPLEII 

• 12/24 Hr. Format 

• Month-Day-Year 

• Day of Week *TRS-80 

• Leap Year Bit 

• 4 Interrupts 

• +-30Sec.Adjust\^>^ 

• Battery Backup 5^ QQ 

• Simple to Program, 

S I 50 FOB ' Apple is a Trademark of 

Apple Computer Co. 

COmpUTim© * TRS80 is a Trademark of 
Tandy Corp. 

Dealer Inquire (714) 536-5000 

P.O. Box 5343 Huntington Beach, CA 92646 




Programming Quickies 








Thermal conductivity (K) 


Material 


BTU 


inches/hour-square 
feet-°F 


air (horizontal heat flow) 




1.00 


air (vertical heat flow up) 




1.20 


aluminum 




1400.00 


asbestos cement board 




5.16 


asphalt 




5.16 


building brickwork 




4.80 


concrete 




6.50 


concrete block (6-inch) 




6.60 


copper 




2700.00 


corkboard 




0.27 


corrugated cardboard 




0.44 


dry sand 




2.28 


expanded vermiculite 




0.48 


fiberboard 




0.34 


fiberglass 




0.25 


granite 




18.00 


gypsum 




3.00 


ice 




15.60 


lead 




240.00 


masonite 




0.33 


macerated paper fill 




0.28 


mineral wool 




0.27 


paper 




0.90 


plaster 




4.00 


plywood 




0.79 


polyurethane foam 




0.20 


slate 




10.30 


snow 




3.24 


sawdust 




0.41 


styrofoam 




0.31 


water 




4.30 


window glass 




5.00 


white pine 




1.04 


wood shingles 




1.15 


Table 1: Thermal conductiv 


ity (K) of common materials used 


in construction and insulation. Note 


that the K for air is 


relatively constant for Vt-inch to 4-inc 


h thicknesses. When 


entering these values into 


the BASIC 


program shown in 


listing 1, use the indicated figures for air (1.0 or 1.2) 


regardless of the thickness 


of the air 


layer. (Data is from 


various sources researched 


by the auth 


or.) 



Fuel 

L P gas 
hardwood 
electricity 
anthracite coal 
natural gas 
#2 fuel oil 
kerosene 



Heating Value (H) Cost (Z) 



21 ,000 BTU/lb 
21,000,000 BTU/cord 
3413 BTU/kW hr 
12,700 BTU/lb 
1050 BTU/cu ft 
138,700 BTU/gal 
135,500 BTU/gal 



$0.245/lb 

$100.00/cord 

$0.055/kW hr 

$0.04745/lb 

$0.004845/cu ft 

$0.93/gal 

$0.97/gal 



Table 2: The heating value in BTUs (British thermal units) 
and cost of various fuels commonly used for home heating. 
The indicated costs are local spot prices in western 
Massachusetts during the winter of 1979-80 and will vary 
significantly in different areas. For the greatest accuracy 
when using the BASIC program shown in listing 1, make sure 
the fuel costs are accurate for your area. (Data is from 
various sources researched by the author.) 



The cost of heat lost is calculated by: 

C = ZXQ/H 

where: C = cost of heat lost in dollars/hour 

Z = fuel cost in dollars/unit 
H = heating value of fuel in BTU/unit 
Q = heat flow in BTU/hour 



268 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 184 on Inquiry card. 




MICROCONDUCTOR™ 

the ultimate data base manager t/s — _ 
for your TRS-80® and Apple® '299 

The MICROCONDUCTOP.'" is nor jusr o file manager bur a true Dara 
Dose Managemenr Sysrem suirable for borh rhe novice and professional 
users. 

DATA FILES — No limir on the number of records o file can have. 

FIELDS— Any type (srring. inrerger. single, double). Eighr enrry 
modes (including defoulrs. counring, ond suppress). 
REPORTS— Four ways ro generare reports. Total numeric column(s). 
Print on any paper in any format (statements, labels, etc.). 
SORT— Any field(s) (i.e. mulriple-key sort). Any size file, numeric or 
ASCII. Ascending or descending. 
MAINT.— Commond anticipation. Record duplicarion, Direcr access 
ond sequenrial search. 
UPDATING/— Add, subtract, multiply, divide fields. Combine resulrs from 
MERGING previous calcularions. Tesr for any condirion ond roke 
action, 

TRS-80® MODEL I s 249 

APPLE® $ 299 

TRS-80® MODEL 1 1 >399 




SAVE ON APPLE II 16K 



FREE MEMORY UPGRADE KIT 
TO 46K WITH PURCHASE OF 
APPLE II 16K 



>1195 



INTRODUCTORY OFFER 
SAVE S300 LIST s 949 

Okidata 
Microline 80 

$ 639 

Model 82 

$ 899 

Patch for Apple Graphics '89 




MTI APPLE 8" DISK SYSTEM 

• One SA800R Floppy « M f\ f\ 

• 1 Drive Chassis b Power 5upply 9*1 A ^\%J 

• Controller. Coble ond DOS I "T Vr/ * 

SUP-R-MOD II s 24.95 

ADT KEY PADS s 99.00 



Z-80SofrCord '339 

The Source MOO 

Applesofrwore '29.95 

SANYO MONITORS 

9 inchQ/W '209 

12 inchB/W '279.50 

1 2 inch green phos. . . '309 

1 inch color dara .... '470 



MONTHLY 

SPECIAL 

SA801 

DARE DRIVE 

>469 



Printers 



Centranic700 '1,069 

Base 2 '649 

Centronics 737 '895 

Centronics 702-9... '1,995 

Malibu '2,093 

Spinwrirer '2,569 

Daisy Wheel '1,779 



Anadex9500 M,549 



A new enhanced NEWDOS for the TRS-80® 

The most powerful Disk Operaring Sysrem for rhe TRS-80® 
designed forrhesophisricared user and professional programmer 
who demands rhe ultimate. 

NEWDOS/80 is the planned upgrade from NEWDOS 2.1. 
Some of rhe fearures are: 

• New BASIC commands for files wirh variable record lengths 
up ro 4095. 

• Mix or march drives. Use 35, 40 or 80 rrack 5" disk drives or 
8" disk drives, or combo. 

• Security boor-up for BA5IC or machine code applicarion 
programs. 

• New edirinq commands. 

• Enhanced RENUMberrhar allows relocation. 

• Command chaining. 

• Device handling for rouring ro display and prinrer 
simulraneously. 

• DFG function; striking of D. F and Gkeysallowsuserroenrer 
a mini-DOS wirhour disturbing program. 

• Comparible wirh NEWDOS b TR5DOS. 

• Machine language Superzap/80 2.1 uriliries $A A Q 
ad enhanced debug and copy. I" jt 




Disk Drive Sale! 

Complete with pawet supply and 

chassis. 

TF-3 5hugatt 5A400 '339 

Perrec FD200, 40 ftack '379 

• TF-5 MPI D5 1 , 40 track '359 

• TF-7Micropolis, 77 track ...'579 
TDH-1 Duol sided, 

35 rrack '469 

TF-3M Drive 5ys 2 Shugarr . . '656 



Disk Expansion System 

• 2 Shugarr SA400 TF-3 '678 

• 1 Twa-Drive Cable '26 

• 1 Expansion interface 32K . . '459 

• 1 35-rrock DOS+ '99 

TOTAL LIST PRICE ....'1262 

SPECIAL 
PRICE 
ONLY .... 



$1,149 



NEWD05+ 40 rrack '110 

NEWDOS+ 3 5 track '99 

D-Cor '199 

Head Cleaner '19.95 

AJA Business Pkg '359 

The Source MOO 

Dasic Compiler '195 

Mail List '60 

Elecrric pencil '150 



NEW FOR 

TF-8 80 TRACK DISK DRIVE 
by MPI 

Double your capacity. 
Single head mini floppy. 
More than 200K byres of 
storage. Complete wirh 
power supply and chassis. 



TRS-80® 

TF-9 DUAL 80 TRACK DISK 
DRIVE by MPI 

Quadruple your capacity. 
400K byres of storage (like 
having 4-40 track drives in 
one unit). Complete with 
power supply and chassis. 



*639 



*789 



• DARE DRIVES FOR ANY MICROCOMPUTER 

Does nor include power supply b cabiner. 

Perrec FD200 '262 FD250 '359 

Shiqard5A400 35 rrack '269 5A410 40 track '279 

MPIB51 '279 D52 '439 

MPI B91 '399 B92 '525 




fi» 



/VIICROCO/VIPUrER 

TECHNOLOGY 
INCORPORATED 



Order Desk Only 800-554-7222 
Telex #678401TAB IRIN 



3304 W. MacArthur 

Santa Ana, C A 92704 

(714) 979-9923 

ALL PRICES CASH DISCOUNTED 

FREIGHT FOB FACTORY 

ASK FOR FREE CATALOG 

®Registeted Ttade Mark of Apple® ond Radio Shack 




Circle 185 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1961 



269 



Programming Quickies 



Listing 1: A BASIC program for cost/benefit analysis of energy- 
saving expenditures. Line 250 adds a constant factor to the 
resistance to heat flow (R) that takes into account external- 
surface air-film resistance. This program is written in Processor 
Technology Extended Cassette BASIC and can easily be 
modified for other BASIC systems. 



30 
90 
100 
110 
120 
130 
140 
150 
1.0 
170 
ISO 
190 
200 
210 
220 
230 
240 
250 
260 
270 
230 
290 
300 
310 
320 
330 
340 
350 
360 
370 
330 
390 



FOR LAYER ";I 

THICKNESS <IN.>? ",L<I> 

THERMAL CONDUCTIVITY (BTU . IN . 'HR . SO. FT . DEG . F . >? ",K<I> 



REM — SAUE MONEY BY INSULATING 

REM — WRITTEN BY RICHARD E. HETHERINGTOM 

REM — MARCH 1980 

FOR J=l TO 2 

PRINT "FOR CASE »";J 

INPUT "AREA OF HEAT FLOW <SG.FT.>? ",A 
INPUT "INDOOR TEMPERATURE <DEG . F . >? ",T1 
INPUT "OUTDOOR TEMPERATURE <DEG.F.>? ",T2 
LET T-T1-T2 

INPUT "HEATING UALUE OF FUEL USED <8TU.'UHIT>? 
INPUT "COST OF FUEL USED <*'UNIT>? ",Z 
PRINT "NUMBER OF LAYERS OF MATERIAL" 
INPUT "THROUGH WHICH THE HEAT FLOWS? ", K 
FOR 1=1 TO N 
PRINT 
PRINT 
INPUT 
INPUT 
NEXT I 
LET R«0 
FOR 1 = 1 TO N 

LET RCI>HL<t>'K<I) 
LET R=R*R(I> 
NEXT I 
LET R-R4-.5 
LET Q<J>=T»A^R 

LET c<j>=z*q<:jvh 

PRINT 

PRINT "HEAT LOST IS" 
PRINT "COST OF FUEL LOST IS";C<J) 
PRINT : PRINT : PRINT 
NEXT J 

PRINT "HEAT SAUED CASE »2 OUER CASE HI IS" ; Q< 1 >-Q<2 > ; " BTU-'HR 
PERCENT OF HEAT SAUED IS"; < <Q< 1 >-<K2> VCK1 >>*1 00; " V 
COST SAVINGS IS";C<1)-C<2>; " *'HR . " 
WHAT WILL BE THE C«ST TO YOU" 
TO HCHIEUE THIS SAUINGST ".E 
PRINT "PAYOUT PERIOD IS" ; E'<C< 1 >-C<2> > ; " HOURS" 
END 



; Q < T ) ; " BTU^HR . 



J.-HR. 



PRINT 
PRINT 
PRINT 
INPUT 



Another important consideration is the pay-out period. 
This is the length of time to recover any money spent on 
conserving energy through fuel savings. The pay-out 
period is: 

P = E/(Cr-C 2 ) 

where: P = pay-out period in hours 

E = cost to achieve the savings (in 

dollars) 

Ci= cost of heat lost before (in dollars 

per hour) 

C 2 = cost of heat lost after (in dollars 

per hour) 

The pay-out period is the real indicator of whether you 
should spend the money. Generally, the shorter the pay- 
out period the better; however, under certain conditions 
pay-out periods as long as ten years may be acceptable. 
For example, it may take ten years to recover the cost of 
insulating the walls of your home. However, if it is a new 
home and you don't plan to move for a long time, then it 
will be worth it. 

Listing 1 is a BASIC program that uses the equations to 
calculate the pay-out period and other information. The 
program is designed to compare two situations. Line 250 
adds a constant factor to the resistance to heat flow (R) to 
take into account external-surface air-film resistance. 
This resistance becomes significant when considering 
materials with very low resistance to heat flow. The pro- 
gram is written in Processor Technology Extended 
Cassette BASIC. 

One more thing: don't forget that you might be able to 
deduct money spent on energy conservation from your 
federal income taxlH 



Problem 1 

You have purchased a home that doesn't have any 
insulation in the attic, and you want to insulate it with 
6 inches of fiberglass insulation. The attic is 20 by 25 
feet (ie: 500 square feet). The ceiling below the attic is 
constructed of V2-inch pine boards (K = 1.04) and Vi 
inches of plaster (K=4). Average attic winter 
temperature is 40 °F and room temperature below the 
attic is 68 °F. The insulation will cost $110 for 500 
square feet (K = 0.25). The house is heated with 
natural gas (H = 1050 BTU/ cubic foot, Z = $0.004845 
/cubic foot). You will do the work, so the only cost 
will be the insulation. Should you insulate the attic? 

Solution 

A 96% reduction in heat loss is indicated, and you will 
recover the money spent in 1970 hours (ie: 82 days) 
under the conditions given. Since this is less than one 
winter season, you should insulate. 



Problem 2 

You have a house identical to. the one described in 
Problem 1, except there already are 6 inches of insula- 
tion in the attic. Should you add 6 more inches of in- 
sulation? 

Solution 

By adding the insulation, you will save 49% of the 
heat presently lost. However the pay-out period is 
87,469 hours. This is 3645 days (ie: thirty winter 
seasons). Under these conditions it's advisable not to 
spend the money. 



Problem 3 

Your house is well insulated but doesn't have any 
storm windows. There are twelve windows in the 
house, each 3 by 5 feet. (The total window area is 180 
square feet.) Combination windows cost $35 each and 
will be installed by a contractor for a total cost of 
$600. (The total job cost is $1020.) The average outside 
winter temperature is 35 ° F, and the inside temper- 
ature is 72° F. The house is heated with electricity 
(H=3413 BTU/kW-hour, Z=$0.055/kW-hour). 
Should the combination windows be installed? 

Material the heat passes through is: 

Case 1: one layer of glass (L = 0.125 inches, K = 5) 
Case 2: two layers of glass (L = 0.125 inches each, 

K = 5) 

one layer of air (L = l inch, K = l) 

Solution 

There is a 66% reduction in heat lost through the 
windows. The cost savings is quite high at $0,135 per 
hour. But the installation cost is so high that the pay- 
out period is fairly long (about three winter seasons). 
The best plan would be to look for a cheaper contrac- 
tor and then have the windows installed. 



270 Februaiy 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Programming Quickies 



A Variable Type Converter for 
Numerical Quantities 



Mike Moskowitz, 23400 E Silsby, Beachwood OH 44122 



Listing 

\<A 

?;a 
33 
n 3 

50 
ftfl 
73 

f?H 
93 

133 
1 lfl 

123 

I 3 f 1 

1 4*1 
1 53 
1 ft PI 
1 7 3 
1R3 

1 93 
P33 
81 3 

pp. 3 
:?3 3 

2 63 

P73 

PRM 
P93 

3(10 

313 
393 

3 3 3 
343 
3^3 

3 63 
37 3 
3 8 PI 
393 
433 
413 
423 



p P r* 
P40 
2 ft 3 



S T E P - 1 

XM".\! 

them 

T M E M 

X H E M P q [7 

THEM 3 3''" 

X H E M 3 o ri 

XHEM 343 

X H E \! 3 6 3 



1: /I Hewlett-Packard BASIC program that converts string 

R F. v < *l T '< E v| 3 S < 1 W T X 2 

RE"! COMVERTS STRIMG VARIABLES TO 

I) I vi A[ S3 1 , R[ S'li , CC v^l , DC S3 1 . EC 53 

A=C=D=E=3 

B=1 

A$="" 

primx "'/"; 
t mp lit as 

C = LEM ( A SO 
E03 o=c TO' 1 
if Asrn»rn-"'v 
if- Asco,ni = "r 

I F ASC l)# 01 = '*2' 
TE A$CD»riJ="3' 

if A$r n, m ="/i- 

IF A£CD>D1='*5' 

tf ASCD»m = "ft' 
ie Asm. m = "7" 

IF A¥C0»m="8" THEM 3R3 

TF ASC n. D] = "9" THEN] 433 

3 3 TO 413 

E [ D 1 = 3 

30X0 413 

E C m = 1 

30X0 413 

E C D 1 = 2 

GOTO 413 

E C D 1 = 3 

30 TO 413 

E C 3 1 = 4 

30X0 413 

ec m = s 

GOTO 'H3 

EC 01 = 6 
GOTO 413 
E C m = 7 
GOTO 413 
EC D1 = R 
GOTO 413 
EC 01 = 9 
A=A+EC D1 *3 

B- B* 13 Listing 1 continued on page 272 



variables to numeric variables. 

v) 1 HEMIC VA'U Afll.ES 
1 » A $ C 5 !.11 



In most versions of BASIC, there are some operations 
and functions which can be performed only on alpha- 
numeric (string) variables and not on numeric variables. 
Likewise, there are operations which will work only on 
numeric variables and not on strings. For example, most 
BASICs will accept operations such as these: 

10 A = LEN(A$) 

20 PRINT A$(l,l) 

30 LETA = B*C 

40 PRINT SQR(A) 

But these statements are illegal in BASIC: 

10 A = LEN(A) 

20 PRINT A(l,l) 

30 LET A$ = B$*C$ 

40 PRINT SQR(A$) 



It would be convenient to have a subroutine which 
would convert numeric quantities stored in string vari- 
ables into numeric variables, and vice versa. This would 
allow all numeric quantities to gain the use of both types 
of functions, regardless of the type of variable they were 
originally assigned to. This is an easy task in some of the 
newer, more powerful BASICs which allow access and 
manipulation of ASCII representations. Most BASIC sys- 
tems, however, do not have this capability. 

Listing 1 converts numbers from strings to numeric 
variables. This subroutine is invaluable when some 
number which must be operated on arithmetically is 
embedded in an input string. Listing 2 converts numbers 
from numeric variables into string variables. It allows 
numeric quantities to receive the use of operations such 
as substring selection, A$(X,Y), and the LEN function. 
These subroutines may be improved by modifying them 
to accommodate decimal points or scientific notation. 
These programs were written in BASIC on a Hewlett- 
Packard 2000E computer, and may need slight modifica- 
tions, but will run on many microcomputer BASICs. ■ 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 271 



Listing 1 continued: 

430 me*t d 

440 PRIMT A 

4 50 P • <! T \l T 

460 TOT") 30 

473 EMD 



Listing 

1 
20 
3 
40 
50 

60 

70 
Fid 
100 
1 10 
120 
131?) 
1 40 
1 50 
1 60 
1 70 
1*0 
1 90 
200 
210 



2: A program that converts numeric variables to string variables. 

RZV MTXE '■nSKOWIT' 2 . 

REM CONVERTS NUMERIC VARIABLES TD STRIM 

DIM AC50],3[501,C[5 0]>D[50]»X[501»A?C50 

A=8=C=D=X~0 

4$="" 

A 



VARIABLES. 



= THEM 120 



PRIMT 
IMPUT 
B = B+ 1 

IE IMTCA/1 0tB): 

GOTO 80 

EOR X=l TO B 

DCX3 = C(A-I\lT(A/10TX)*10TX)-CA-TMT(A/10TCX-1))*10TCX-l)))/10TCX-n 

MEXT X 

C=l 

EOR X=H TO 1 STEP -1 

TP" DC X 1 = THEM 2 70 



IE 

TE 
IE 
IE 



D[X]=1 
DCX]=2 
DCX]=3 
DCX1 = 4 



THEM 
THEM 
THEM 
THEM 



290 
310 
330 

3 50 



THE FORTH SOURCE 

Specializing in printed material 
for the FORTH language. Send 
for listing of current material. 

Installation Manual $10.00 

8080 Listing $10.00 

6502 Listing $10.00 

6800 Listing $10.00 

6809 Listing $10.00 

PDP-11 Listing $10.00 
more 

Using FORTH, Manual $25.00 
PDP-11 User's Guide $20.00 
Kitt Peak Primer $25.00 

more 

Dealer Inquiries Invited. 

Write for complete listing of 
FORTH material. 

MOUNTAIN VIEW PRESS 

PO Box 4656 

Mt. View, CA 94040 



220 


IE DC X 1 = 5 THEM 


37A 


230 


TE DCX] = 6 THEM 


3 90 


240 


IE ncX1=7 THEM 


410 


2 50 


IE DCX1=8 THEM 


430 


260 


IE DC X 1 = 9 THEM 


4 50 


27 


A$CC*C1="0" 




230 


GOTO 460 




290 


ASCC*CI="1" 




300 


GOTO 460 




310 


ASCC*C]="2" 




320 


GOTO 460 




330 


A$CC>C1="3" 




3 40 


GOTO 460 




3 50 


A$CC>C1="4" 




360 


GOTO 460 




370 


A8[C*C]="5" 




380 


GOTO 460 




3 90 


ASCC>C] = ,, 6" 




400 


GOTO 460 




410 


ASCC>C]="7 M 




420 


GOTO 460 




430 


A$CC>C1="S" 




4 40 


GOTO 460 




450 


ASCC>C1="9" 




460 


C=C+1 




470 


MEXT X 




4R0 


PRTMT AS 




490 


PRIMT 




500 


GOTO 10 




51 


EMD 





272 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 186 on Inquiry card. 




World Leader in Phonetic Voice Synthesis 

Announces the Formation 

of its New Sales Distribution Division 



l/ODE\ 



To serve your specialized low-volume speech synthesizer needs. 



PRODUCTS AVAILABLE NOW: 



VOTRAX SPEECH PAC 




$275.00 

The Votrax Speech PAC (Phoneme 
Access Controller) provides a system 
designer with low cost, unlimited 
vocabulary speech synthesis. 
The small circuit board can be easily 
designed into systems and is suitable 
for experimentation and evaluation 
of phoneme-based speech synthesis. 
Operating in a handshaking mode 
with an external controller, up to 255 
words can be accessed. Prestored 
words and phrases can be intermixed 
with phoneme sequencing to provide 
unlimited vocabulary. 
The Speech PAC includes these 
features: SC-01 Low Data Rate 
Speech Chip, expandable memory 
with the use of a 32 K EPROM, 
on board audio amplifier, parallel 
interface — TTL compatible. 



VOTRAX VSM-1 

The Votrax VSM-1 (Versatile Speech 
Module™) introduces a new high level 
of performance and flexibility for 
computer speech modules. The 
Speech Module is an extremely 
powerful audio response system 
designed to simulate or develop talk- 
ing products. 

Over 1 300 stored words and a built-in 
prefix/suffix table provide a vocabu- 
lary of over several thousand words. 
Additionally, up to 8 K bytes of user 
vocabulary can be accommodated. 
Phoneme sequences can be easily in- 
termixed with prestored words to 
generate unlimited vocabulary. 




TO ORDER CALL 
TOLL FREE (800) 521-1350. 



$1195.00 

Speech rate and pitch can be 
dynamically programmed to develop 
stress patterns. Many voice effects 
are programmable using master clock 
frequency controls. A wide range of 
sound effects can be generated using 
prestored sound macros. Additional 
sound macros can be user defined. 
VSM-1 interfacing can be either 
parallel or serial (RS-232C). With 
selectable baud, a common com- 
puter terminal can be used to directly 

UODEX 

A VOTRAX COMPANY %^ 



create speech and sound effects. 
The VSM-1 operating system (voxOS ,M ) 
is 6800 series MPU based. voxOS may 
be bypassed or downloaded 6800 
compatible segments may be ex- 
ecuted to change system functions. 
Adding additional devices to the 
speech module is facilitated by an 
expansion bus connector. 

SC-01 SPEECH 
SYNTHESIZER CHIP 




Available in quantities 10 to 5000 

The SC-01 Speech Synthesizer Chip 
is a self-contained, 22 pin CMOS 
device. The chip synthesizes con- 
tinuous speech of unlimited 
vocabulary by combining phonemes 
(the building blocks of speech) in the 
appropriate sequence. 
The chip produces continuous 
speech from a 70 bit data rate. 
Included on the chip is an audio 
preamplifier. The SC-01 chip pro- 
duces 64 phonemes which are 
accessed by a 6-bit code. Two 
additional input codes can be used 
to set an inflection level. 
An on-chip master clock circuit can 
be externally controlled to enhance 
voice quality and to provide a broad 
range of sound effects. 



500 Stephenson Highway 
Troy, Michigan 48081 
Phone: (313)588-0341 



Circle 187 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 273 



Education Forum 



Microcomputers in the Chemistry Laboratory 



Robert P DeSieno, Director, Computer Services Center, 
Davidson College, Davidson NC 28036 



Editor's Note: Since writing this article, Mr DeSieno has 
moved from Westminster College, New Wilmington, 
Pennsylvania, to his present post at Davidson College. 




Photo Is An Altair 8800b microcomputer, floppy-disk drive, 
and Lear-Siegler ADM 3A terminal interfaced to a pH meter. 




Photo 2: The graphics display presented by an RG-512 
Retrographics card in the Lear-Siegler terminal. The Y axis is 
calibrated in units of pH, the X axis in milliliters of titrant. The 
plot is a titration curve for the reaction between sodium hydrox- 
ide and phosphoric acid. 



The advances in microcircuitry, the production of 
solid-state components, and the development of 
microcomputers provide small chemistry departments 
with inexpensive resources for interfacing computers and 
laboratory instruments (see references 1 and 2). Marketed 
by a cottage industry that serves hobbyists, microcom- 
puters and their peripheral devices offer faculty and 
students modern means to gather data, process informa- 
tion, and enrich their understanding of chemistry. 

Equipment and Hardware 

In the last three years, faculty and students in the 
Chemistry Department of Westminster College built 
from kits an Altair 8800b microcomputer, a Lear-Siegler 
ADM 3A terminal, 48 K bytes of dynamic memory, two 
serial ports, and four parallel ports. In addition, the 
department bought a graphics module (Digital Engineer- 
ing RG-512 Retrographics card) for the Lear-Siegler ter- 
minal and a MITS 3200 disk drive. We assembled these 
components into a system (see figure 1 and photo 1) that 
samples the output of gas chromatographs, spec- 
trophotometers, or pH meters, stores data on disks, 
calculates results, and displays information on a video 
terminal and a printer. 

To change analog signals into digital information for 
the computer, we use a digital-panel meter (Analog 
Devices AD2010 DPM) that converts signals in the range 
±199.9 mV into 3V2 binary coded decimal (BCD) 
numbers and displays the data transferred to the com- 
puter. We program a Motorola PC6820 Peripheral Inter- 
face Adapter (PIA) to handle two status bits and thirteen 
parallel-data bits transferred between the computer and 
the DPM. The DPM delivers data at controlled rates up 
to a maximum of 24 readings per second, a pace suffi- 
ciently rapid for many instrumental measurements of 
chemical behavior. 

Laboratory Activity 

To introduce techniques of interfacing, we guide 
upper-level students for four weeks while they use a 
microcomputer to study the rate of reaction between fer- 
ric and iodide ions and determine titration curves for 
reactions between acids and bases. 

Students use an ultraviolet-visible spectrophotometer 
(Bausch & Lomb Spectronic 20) set at a wavelength of 
425 nm (nanometers) to observe the increasing absor- 
bance of light in a solution of ferric and iodide ions. 
Triiodide ions, a product of the reaction in solution, 
cause the growth of absorbance and the changing absor- 
bance signal in the spectrophotometer reflects the rate of 



274 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



5,000,000 Reasons to replace 
your 5-inch Floppies with a 
low-cost, high-performance 



TTT 




5 megabytes instantly expand the program and data storage 
horizons on your H-89 r TRS-80, or s-100 microcomputer system. 




DJust slip 5 megabytes of on-line data storage 
Into place In your standard 5-Inch floppy disk 
openings, and suddenly your capability horizons 
have dramatically shifted, upwards, now your 
CP/M* s-100 microcomputer system, or H-89 
Heathklt (HDOS or CPM 2.2) computer system can 
utilize the kind of hlgh-rellablllty and rapid- 
access mass storage which today's sophisticated 
programming demands. DA company named 
act has created a complete package at a price so good, you 
couldn't walk away from It. The 5-Inch package Includes the 
remarkable Shugart Technology ST 506 hard-disk drive with 6.3 
megabytes of unformatted mass storage and a micro-sequencing 
controller card with complete floppy disk-like Interfacing. Hard- 
disks have never been more affordable, nif you are wondering 
Just how these ultra-fast, high throughput hard-disk drives will 
work with your multi-terminal or real-time, 
transaction oriented systems: now you can get 
some straight answers. Clip and mall the coupon 
for quick response to all your questions. Or 
better yet, give us a call today at (703) 471-6288 
for some no-nonsense reasons why your system 
needs to act now. Quantity pricing Is available 
to meet the needs of Original Equipment! 
Manufacturers; check the box on the coupon. 





Circle 189 on inquiry card. 

Clip and mail coupon to: 

American Computer 11301 Sunset Hills Road 

and Telecommunications Suite A-4, Reston, VA 22090 
Corporation 1,703)471-6288 



Tell me more about the ACT 
5-inch hard-disk drive 
package: 

My present 5-inch hard-disk drive 
interests center around: 

□ S-100 Microcomputer Systems 

□ H-89 Heathkit Computer Systems 

□ TRS-80 Radio Shack Computer 
Systems 

□ Send me quantity price schedule 



Name 

Title 

Company 
Address _ 



City, State, Zip 
Phone ( ) 



MICROCOMPUTER 



VIDEO 
DISPLAY 



DIGITAL 
DATA 



DIGITAL 

PANEL 

METER 







SIGNAL 




OPERATIONAL 


INSTRUMENT 


AMPLIFIER 











FOR IMPEDANCE 
CONTROL AND 
AMPLIFICATION 



Figure 1: Block diagram for interfacing a laboratory instrument and a microcomputer. 



this reaction. The absorbance signal is captured at the 
amplifier of the spectrophotometer and delivered through 
the DPM to a parallel port of the computer. To transfer 
data to the processor and calculate rate constants, 
exponents of terms, and energy of activation from their 
rate studies, students program the microcomputer in Ex- 
tended Disk BASIC. 

To trace the behavior of acid-base titrations, students 
use a combination glass and reference electrode to 
measure changing concentrations of protons in solution 
and deliver changing potential differences between these 
electrodes to a pH meter. A syringe driven by a pump 
delivers the base at a fixed rate into the acid to be titrated. 
A clock controlled by software coordinates the rate of 
travel for a vector across the video screen with the rate of 
delivery of base. The clock and the pH meter (by way of 
the DPM and a port) provide pairs of data needed to use 
the graphics terminal as an x,y plotter (see photo 2). 

Educational Approach 

These projects embody chemistry that our students 
have studied earlier in laboratories of lower-level 
courses. This earlier experience lends confidence to 
students and helps them concentrate more effectively on 
the details of interfacing. Students compare results from 
observations made with the aid of interfacing to results 
they obtained from earlier studies and to information 
reported in the literature. Such comparisons impress 
upon them the value of checking conclusions on the way 
to scientific understanding. 



Students learn quickly that interfacing a microcom- 
puter to a laboratory instrument requires comprehensive 
understanding of the work they will do. To attain their 
goals, they must: 

• become familiar with the theory of the measurements 
they will make in order to write and test software that in- 
structs the computer to calculate results and establish a 
format for reporting information 

• connect the computer with the aid of appropriate hard- 
ware to the instrument 

• use and test software that will control the transfer of 
information between the computer and the instrument 
(handshaking) 

• prepare and standardize solutions required for the 
project 

To help students develop the skills they will need, we 
assign exercises that familiarize them with our microcom- 
puter, an instrument, and the details of interfacing these 
devices. We divide students into two groups: those who 
have programmed and those who have not. 

Students who have programmed refresh their skills by 
programming with Extended Disk BASIC to calculate 
physical properties and chemical behavior of gases, liq- 
uids, solids, and solutions. We assign tutorials in 
computer-aided instruction to students who have had no 
programming experience and work closely with these 
students until they grasp the fundamental qualities of 
programming and can also use the computer to solve 




Turn your Apple* inside out 

Softbus" brings the Apple's bus to your workbench to be conven- 
iently plugged into your breadboards. Don't let a drop of solder or 
coffee destroyyour computer. With the cover secured and Softbus, 
your Apple is safe, protected and accessiblefor easy circuitinter- 
facing. Softbus is the ideal, low cost design and interface tool 
for hobbyists, technicians and engineers. Write or give us a 

call for details. _, . 

,,^-,A-,n^A S X Suggested retail S80.00. 

(415)747-0614 / \ Dealer inquiries invited. 

^^9*^^ ^^0^*^ Mail orders accepted. 

Tt^RASsport 

-^DGSIGNS 



s a registered trademark of Apple Computer, Inc. 
is a trademark of Passport Designs. Inc. 



Marketing; 
Box 21061. 
Minneapolis. MN 55421 



Headquarters: 
Box47B. 
La Honda, CA 94020 



276 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 190 on Inquiry card. 



dBASE II vs. the Bilge Pumps. 



byHalPawluk 

We all know that bilge pumps suck. 

And by now, we've found out— the hard 
way— that a lot of software seems to work the 
same way. 

So I got pretty 
excited when I ran 
across dBASE II, an 
assembly-language rela- 
tional Database Man- 
agement System for 
CP/M. It works! And 
even a rank beginner 
like myself got it up 
and running the first 
time I sat down with it. 

If you're looking 
for software to deal with 
your data, too, here are 
some tips that will help: 

Tip #1: Database Management 
vs. File Handling: 

Any list or collection of data is, loosely, 
a data base, but most of those "data base man- 
agement" articles in the buzzbooks are really about 
file handling programs for specific applications. 
A real Database Management System gives you 
data and program independence (no repro- 
gramming when data changes), eliminates data 
duplication and makes it easy to turn data into 
information. 

Tip #2: Assembly 
Language vs. BASIC: 

This one's easy: if you're setting up a 
DBMS, you're going to be doing a lot of sorting, 
and Basic sorts are s-l-o-w. Run a benchmark on 
a Basic system like S*-IV against a relational 
DBMS like dBASE II and you'll see what I mean. 
(But watch it: I've also seen one extremely slow 
assembly-language file management system.) 

Tip #3: Relational vs. Hierarchal 
& Network DBMS. 

CODASYL-like hierarchal and network 
systems, around since the 1960's, are being 
phased out on the big machines so why get stuck 
with an old-fashioned system for your micro? A 
relational DBMS like dBASE II eliminates the pre- 
defined sets, pointers and complex data structures 
of a CODASYL-type DBMS. And you don't need 
to be a programmer to use it. 




dBASE II vs. everything else. 

dBASE II really impressed me. 
Written in assembly language (with no 
need for a host lan- 
guage), it handles up to 
65,000 records (up to 32 
fields and 1000 bytes 
each), stores numeric 
data as packed strings 
so there are no round- 
off errors, has a super- 
fast multiple-key sort, 
and supports ISAM 
based on B* trees. 

You can use it 
interactively with 
English-like commands 
(DISPLAY 10 PROD- 
UCTS), or program it 
(so when you've set up the formats, your secretary 
can do the work). Its report generator and user- 
definable full screen operations mean that you can 
even use your existing forms. 

And if all this makes your mouth water, but 
you've already got all your data on a disk, that's 
okay: dBASE II reads your ASCII files and adds 
the data to its own database. 

Right now, I'm using dBASE II with my 
word processor for budgeting, scheduling and 
preparing reports for my clients. 

Next come job costing, time billing and 
accounting. 

An Unheard-of Money-Back 
Guarantee. 

dBASE II is the first software I've seen 
with a full money-back guarantee. 

To check it out, just send $700 (plus tax in 
California) to Ashton-Tate, 3600 Wilshire Blvd., 
Suite 1510, Los Angeles, CA 90010. (213) 666-4409. 
Test dBASE II doing your jobs on your computer 
for 30 days. If, for some strange reason, you don't 
want to keep it, send it back and they'll refund 
your money. 

No questions asked. 

They know you don't need your bilge 
pumped. 



AshtonTate 



©Ashton-Tate 1980 



Circle 191 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



277 



problems in chemistry. Eight to ten hours of program- 
ming on an interactive terminal, guidance from a teacher, 
and help from other students give all students the ability 
and confidence to use the computer for elementary inter- 
facing operations. 

To help students understand how information is 
transferred between the computer and an instrument, a 
process called input/output or I/O, we provide hard and 
disk copies of routines that manage I/O. Students study 
these routines and explore the relationships between 
hardware and the software that executes I/O. The 
students then embed their software for calculating results 
within these routines and synthesize a program that con- 
trols transfer of information among instrument, com- 
puter, and disk files, as well as presents results at the 
video terminal. 

When students have completed these tasks, we provide 
sample data retrieved from disk files so they can simulate 
their experiments and test and correct their programs. 
Assured of hardware and software that work, students 
complete their lab work by selecting substances and con- 
centrations that will provide a range of data commen- 
surate with the most reliable operation of the instrument 
and the computer. To enhance their understanding of in- 
terfacing, students write a comprehensive report that 
describes the procedures and apparatus they have used, 
as well as the relationships between what they measure, 
how they measure, and what they conclude. These 
reports reveal that the careful attention to detail inherent 
in the use of computers improves the quality of our 
students' laboratory work. 



NEVADA 




ForCP/M 

Powerful subset at ANSI-74 

Why wait? 

All the elegant simplicity 

of COBOL la now affordabSe! 



r 



$ QQ 

DISKETTE ^^W ^^W 
MANUAL ^»T ^J 



95N 



REQUIRES only 16K RAM. 
Available on 8" CP/M 
standard single density or 
5%" diskettes for North 
Star, TRS-80 Mod I and 
Superbraln. Other formats 
tool Manual alone $24.95. ' 

<*e> Ellis Computing 

^ 600-41st Avenue 

San Francisco, CA 94121 
U.8.A. 



These powerful, easy to use 
COBOL APPLICATION PACKAGES 

are also available: 

1. BUDGET PLAN REPORT 
GENERATOR 

Fantastic time saver and planning 
aid for beginning or established 
businesses. 

2. PERSONAL FINANCIAL 
REPORTING 

Eye-opening Insights of personal 
spending. 

3. LABELS lor mailing lists. 

4. PRECOBOL (a preprocessor). 

ALL 4 in one BOOK! 

73 pages with complete COBOL 
source code listings and super 
documentation. 



$24 



95 



WE WELCOME C.O.D.s 



^2 L^ftJ 



[415)751-1522 



In CA add sates tax. CP-M trade mark of Digit*! Research. TRS-80 trade mark of Tandy Corp. 



Conclusions 

We have just begun to teach interfacing of computers 
in the laboratory. Yet, we believe that such teaching is 
valuable and conclude: 

• Many students who have not used computers fear them 
and the specific action required to use them successfully. 

• Once they use microcomputers to solve traditional 
problems in chemistry, students develop confidence and 
approach interfacing with enthusiasm. 

• Because students can write software to analyze data 
only if they possess understanding and expectations of 
their intended studies, interfacing microcomputers with 
instruments encourages them to study their project before 
they begin work in the laboratory. 

• Interfacing encourages students to gather more data 
and analyze the statistical reliability of their information. 
Moreover, qualities such as signal-to-noise ratio, rates of 
measurement, and detection limits, frequently given 
minimal attention in traditional laboratory work, receive 
careful attention from students when they interface a 
microcomputer to a laboratory instrument. 

• By interfacing the microcomputer with instruments, 
students learn the differences between analog and digital 
information and how to report precision and significant 
figures with the aid of hardware and software. 

• Writing software compels students to select a format 
for information they will report. Thus, experiments that 
use interfacing encourage students to consider their 
reader as they use the computer to prepare charts, tables, 
or outlined presentations of their data and conclusions. 

• Interfacing encourages students to blend the systematic 
use of a computer with their experimental work. Thus, 
students use, to their benefit, flowcharts to select and 
guide laboratory activity, or design software for their 
projects. 

• Interfacing of computers encourages a sense of com- 
munity among students in the laboratory. We urge them 
to solve their experimental and software problems in- 
dependently and this produces a variety of solutions for 
gathering and interpreting data with the aid of the com- 
puter. Students enjoy comparing solutions and merging 
ideas that improve on the techniques they have used. 

Our students have emerged from these projects with 
more confidence in their ability to solve problems. From 
interfacing, our faculty has gained a more comprehensive 
basis for discussing the design of laboratory projects and 
the significance of results that students report. Interfacing 
microcomputers in the laboratory has guided our 
students to more detailed awareness of cause and effect. 
We are designing other interfacing projects that will ex- 
tend similar educational benefits to students in other 
laboratories of this department. ■ 



References 

1. Scientific American, 237 (3), September 1977; The Physics 
Teacher, 16 (10), October 1978. 

2. Gerhold, et al, "Bits, Bytes, Boards, Buses, and Beyond," J. 
Chem. Ed., 56(3), 701 1979. 

3. Fudge, A J and Sykes, K W, Journal of the Chemical Society, 119, 
January-March 1952. 

4. Hershey, A V and Bray, W C, Journal of the American Chemical 
Society, 58, 1760, 1936. 



278 February 1981 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 188 on inquiry card. 



Why is the 88G Printer 
the new industry 

leader? 



QUALITY 

The attractive, durable 88G casework is 
formed from impact-resistant, flame- 
retardant Styron. Microprocessor con- 
trolled stepper motors provide precision 
control over print head and paper 
positioning. Computer quality tractors 
position paper for readability and are 
fully adjustable to accommodate varying 
paper widths. 








MICROPROCESSOR 
CONTROLLED INTERFACE 

The microprocessor array provides the 
intelligence for a dual RS232 serial 
and a Centronics® type parallel interface. 
Both inputs are fully buffered to allow 
the 88G to receive data and print 
simultaneously. A IK character buffer is 
standard with a 2K buffer available as 
an option. 

The short line thruput of the 88G has 
been increased by incorporation of a 
Quick Cancel feature that fully utilizes 
the bidirectional/unidirectional printing 
capabilities. Built-in diagnostic and 
self-test capabilities allow the user to 
easily pinpoint system problems and 
a Power On confidence 
test verifies 
operational status of 
the printer each 
time power is applied 



VERSATILITY 

The 88G prints a full upper and lower 
case 96 character ASCII set with a crisp, 
clear 7x7 matrix in 80, 96, or 132 column 
formats. For text processing and 
correspondence applications, an 11x7, 
80 column serif style matrix can be 
selected by switch or software command. 
The dual tractor/pressure-feed paper 
drive system allows the user to choose 
either pin-feed, roll, or single sheet 
papers up to 9.5 inches wide. 

Complete forms control allows the 
88G to be quickly configured for printing 
single or multiple-ply invoices, purchase 
orders, checks, or any type of preprinted 
form. Optional paper roll holders and 
single sheet feeders can be quickly 
attached. 

The wide use range of the 88G makes 
it the perfect companion for business 
systems, data processing, RO teleprinter 
and terminal printer applications. 

GRAPHICS 

A high-resolution, dot-addressable 
graphics option can be added for appli- 
cations requiring plotting, printing of 
screen graphics, drawings, illustrations, 
etc. Single dot print resolution greatly 
extends the usefulness of the graphics 
capability. Selection of one of the 
four horizontal dot densities available 
customizes the graphic printout, and 
alphanumerics can easily be included 
for titling of graphs and illustrations. 



LONG LIFE 
RIBBON CARTRIDGE 

Ribbon difficulties are minimized 
through use of a continuous loop cart- 
ridge with a five million character life. 
It is easily changed without opening 
the case, and without any complicated 
or messy threading operations. 




PRICE 

Every detail is directed toward providing 
a heavy-duty, commercial quality 
printer for only $749.00. No other printer 
on the market today can provide its 
quality, features and performance at 
a comparable price. The 88G is an 
obvious industry leader. 





Centronics is J registered trademark of the Centronics Ddt<i Computer Corp. 



Circle 192 on inquiry card. 



Micro Peripherals, Inc. 
4426 South Century Drive 
Salt Lake City, Utah 84107 
Phone (801) 973-6053 



Ask BYTE 



Conducted by Steve Ciarcia 



Sensing Alarms 

Dear Steve, 

I am currently designing a 
home-alarm system. I have 
been reviewing your BYTE 
articles from January 1979 
thru March 1979. (See 
"Build a Computer-Con- 
trolled Security System for 
Your Home," Part 1, 
January 1979 BYTE, page 
56; Part 2, February 1979 
BYTE, page 162; Part 3, 
March 1979 BYTE, page 
150.) I am hoping that you 
can clear up a couple of 
questions I have about your 
articles. 

For a little background, 
my computer system is 
based on a Z80 microproces- 
sor, rather than the 8085. I 
will be using sensors which 
you described in your arti- 
cle, and that is where my 
questions arise. 

To begin with, I refer to 
photo 3 (January 1979 
BYTE, page 68) and figure 1 
(March 1979 BYTE, page 
151). Is the LM3911 in- 
tegrated circuit equivalent to 



the sensor in photo 3? Can 
the sensor in photo 3 be 
used in the system by add- 
ing the comparator in figure 
1, but leaving out the 
temperature trigger-point 
potentiometer, since the sen- 
sor in photo 3 will trip 
above a certain point? My 
idea is shown as a schematic 
diagram in figure 1 below. If 
a commercial device is suit- 
able, can you recommend 
one for me to use? 

Thank you for your time. 
Brian P Mulhearn 



The sensor shown in 
January's photo 3 is simply 
a temperature sensitive 
switch (shown here as figure 
2). It operates like any push- 
button switch. It is either 
open or closed. When the 
temperature is below 135° F 
it will be open, and above 
that temperature it will be 
closed. The circuit in figure 
2 is a way to test these 
devices. It consists of an 
LED (light-emitting diode) 



Figure 1 



+ 12V WOULD A RESISTOR 

A BE NEEDED HERE TO 

REPLACE THE POTENTIOMETER? 



>5.6K 



-5V 

A 



LM3911 



T 



10K 
-vw- 




-l3>output 



m 



and a 6 V battery. Just dip 
the sensor in hot water and 
the LED should light. 

The LM3911 is a linear in- 
tegrated circuit and not a 
mechanical switch. It uses 
the difference in emitter-base 
voltage of transistors 
(operating at different cur- 
rent densities) as the basic 
temperature sensitive ele- 
ment. The output voltage of 
the LM3911 is directly pro- 
portional to temperature in 



Figure 3 



LM 3911 

INSIDE DIAGRAM 



6.8V 
ZENER 



degrees Kelvin (10 mV/°K). 
External resistors can scale 
this to any desired value 
through an op amp. Inter- 
nally, the LM3911 appears 
as in figure 3. The device 
itself is the temperature sen- 
sor. To measure the 
temperature of a water pipe, 
the LM3911 would have to 
be placed against the pipe. 
To make it operate like the 
mechanical sensor, a com- 
parator is added which trig- 



-Opin 3 +v 



T 



-\ >PIN 2 FEEDBACK 
INPUT 




•50K 



-{3> PIN l OUTPUT 



10mV/°K 



-f^>PIN 4 -V (GND) 



Figure 4 



+12V +12V 

$ 4 



50K TEMP TRIGGER 
-VVV 1 SET POINT 



IC1 
LM3911 



£ 



10K 




£3>0UTPUT 



Figure 5 

+ 5V 



Figure 2 



srt 



v 



27011 
-V\Aj 



LED OFF = TEMP< 135°F 
LED ON = TEMP > 135°F 



. 4.7K 



T=135"F 



i es« 



-l3> output 



OUTPUT 

LOGIC "1" 
LOGIC "0" 



135' 
135' 



280 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



The PRACTICAL MICROCOMPUTER PROGRAMMING™ books 



WHAT DO THE CRITICS SAY? 

BYTE: "It was apparently Mr. Welter's goal from the beginning to pre- 
sent the fundamental concepts ol assembly language programming in 
a completely nonthreatening way. He has accomplished this better 
than any other author to date. . .Practical Microcomputer Program- 
ming is' a very powerful series. It is well written and full of essential 
techniques for the assembly language programmer.". . . "The authors 
know the difference between a novice and a ninny. They never talk 
down. . . on every page the authors spot and clear up the small ambi- 
guities of technical jargon that can block understanding." 

Kilobaud: "A powerful plus for this book is the author's determination 
to demonstrate why and how to use each instruction, not merely to ex- 
plain how it works. . .At no point do the authors resort to rehashing 
material available from the manufacturer. . . but instead choose a less 
theoretical, more practical approach." 

Leventhal: ". . .large numbers ol documented, well structured exam- 
ples, and a clear readable style, a logical development of major 
topics. " 

Digital Design: "This book is the best and most lucid introduction to 
Z80 programming that we have seen." 



CACHE: "This is an EXCELLENT book. . 
software and documentation." 



.dirt cheap for such great 




IF YOU'VE TRIED THE "CHEAPJES" AND AREN'T SATISFIED WITH WHAT YOU GOT, IT'S TIME TO TRY THE REAL 
THING, THE ACKNOWLEDGED WORLD STANDARD OF TECHNICAL EXCELLENCE IN ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE 
PROGRAMMING INSTRUCTION— THE PRACTICAL MICROCOMPUTER PROGRAMMING BOOKS. 



■ FOR THE 6502 - 
PRACTICAL MICROCOMPUTER PROG RAMMING: THE 6502 by W. J. Welter $32.95 

20 chapters, 6 appendices, 475 page Smythe sewn hardcover covering all fundamental assembly language techniques lor the 6502 processor. The 
text explanation is re-enforced with 118 verified, real world programming examples that run on real computers. An extended 6502 language, sup- 
ported by a new editor/assembler which comes with the book, circumvents many of the problems which have made the 6502 so difficult to pro- 
gram in the past. In addition to the fundamental technique chapters, there are special chapters covering simple graphics, elementary cryp- 
tography and random number generation and use. The source texts of both the editor/assembler and a powerful new debugging monitor lor the Ap- 
ple II and Apple // + included in appendices. The object code for this software is supplied FREE to book purchasers on Apple cassette or lor $7.50 
on disk when the licensing agreement from the book is returned to the publisher. The editor/assembler is also available on paper tape for users of 
other 6502 based systems. 

■ FOR THE Z80 ■ 

PRACTICAL MICROCOMPUTER PROGRAMMING: THE Z80 by W.J. Welter $32.95 

18 chapters, 4 appendices, 481 page Smythe sewn hardcover which details assembly language technique as applied to the 180 processor. The Z80 
is treated as an 8080 superset in an 8080 extension language, which means that you don't have to discard your hard won 8080 knowledge to pro- 
gram the ZBO. In addition to the fundamental chapters there are chapters on graphic output and full four function decimal arithmetic. The text ex- 
planation is re-enforced with 104 tested, verified programming examples. A powerful editor/assembler and debugging monitor, in source form, are 
provided to support the language used in the book. This software will run on any Z80 based computer with 10K RAM beginning at 0. Object code lor 
both editor/assembler and debugging monitor is sent to book purchasers FREE on paper tape or, in modified form, on TRS-80 Level II cassette 
when the coupon from the book is returned to the publisher. 

■ FOR THE 8080 ■ 

PRACTICAL MICROCOMPUTER PROGRAMMING: THE INTEL 8080 by Weller, Shatzel and Nice $23.95 

18 chapters, 3 appendices, 318 page Smythe sewn hardcover which applies fundamental assembly language technique to this most popular of 
processors. The text is supported by 84 separate programming examples. The book includes a special section on the handling ol complex 
peripheral devices and exotic typefaces. Appendices give the source for an 8080 resident debugging monitor and a minicomputer cross assembler 
lor the 8080. Also availablefnot shown above) are a workbook for use with this text ($935) and AN EDITOR/ASSEMBLER SYSTEM FOR 8080/8085 
BASED COMPUTERS ($15.95) which supports the language used in the text. These three books together make a complete teaching package lor 
the 8080. 

■ FOR THE 6800 - 

PRACTICAL MICROCOMPUTER PROGRAMMING: THE M6800 by W.J. Weller $23.95 

76 chapters, 2 appendices, 299 page Smythe sewn hardcover text which details the application ol fundamental assembly language technique to 
the 6800. 104 separate programming examples re-enforce the text explanation. Contains in addition special chapters on low precision 
trigonometry and random number generation and use. A resident debugging monitor lor 6800 systems is included in an appendix. 



NO GAMES, NO NONSENSE, NO RE- 
PRODUCTIONS OR REHASHES OF 
MANUFACTURER'S DATA SHEETS, 
JUST TESTED, ACCURATE, RELE- 
VANT PROGRAMMING INFORMA- 
TION BACKED UP BY REAL EXAMP- 
LES THAT RUN ON REAL COMPUT- 
ERS—THE PRACTICAL MICROCOM- 
PUTER PROGRAMMING BOOKS. 
THERE IS NOTHING ELSE AS GOOD 
ANYWHERE, AT ANY PRICE. 



Mail to: Northern Technology Books, Box 62, Evanston, IL 60204 



D Practical Microcomputer Programming: The 6502 

□ Practical Microcomputer Programming: The Z80 

□ Practical Microcomputer Programming: The Intel 8080 

□ Practical Microcomputer Programming: The M6800 

D Workbook for Practical Microcomputer Programming: The Intel 8080 
D An Editor/ Assembler System for 8080/8085 Based Computers 



D Check enclosed (U.S. funds only) 

Name 

Street 

City 



D Money order enclosed 



. State 



-Zip 



$32.95 
$32.95 
$23.95 
$23.95 
$ 9.95 
$15.95 



Illinois residents add 5% sales tax 



Ask BYTE 



gers when a preset level is 
reached (see figure 4). The 
50 k-ohm potentiometer is 
set for some temperature of 
interest. When the output of 
ICl exceeds the setting, the 
output state of IC2 changes. 
The advantage of this circuit 
over the mechanical sensor 
is that any temperature may 
be set. 

It appears that you want 
a sensor that signifies a 
temperature greater than 
135° F and is compatible 
with the computer input. 
Using the mechanical sensor, 
this can be accomplished 
with the circuit in figure 5. 
A 7414 Schmitt-trigger in- 
verter produces a clear out- 
put level once contact 
bounce has ceased. If you 
prefer, CMOS (complemen- 
tary metal-oxide semicon- 
ductor) devices can be used 
instead to reduce power re- 
quirements. . . . Steve 



Probing for Probes 

Dear Steve, 

This is a nontechnical re- 
quest, but I sure hope you 
can help me. 

I have been trying for two 
months to locate an outlet 
for the type of probes 
shown in photo 5 of your 
article "Mind Over Matter: 
Add Biofeedback to Your 
Computer," (June 1979 
BYTE, page 56). After a let- 
ter, three Telex messages, 
and three telephone calls to 
American Optical (both east 
coast and west coast), I 
finally received a reply from 
Cambridge Instruments, 
formerly American Optical, 
Medical Division, saying, 
"We don't make the probes, 
and we don't know anyone 
who does." 

I wear a transcutaneous 
electronic nerve stimulator 
over a shoulder injury. The 
flat carbonized-rubber 
probes, held on with 
separate adhesive, some- 
times lift free of skin contact 
when I am active. The nor- 
mal 40 V 23 ^s pulse (loaded 
voltage) goes up to about 
400 V open line voltage. 
When it again contacts the 
skin, it arcs and makes a 



sore spot. 

Your probe, with the pre- 
drilled sponge center, looks 
as if it would work much 
better — if I could only locate 
it. If you give me the ad- 
dress of the medical supply 
house where you obtained 
yours, I will contact them 
directly. I used biofeedback 
for several months at the 
UCLA Pain Control Unit, 
and I intend to build the 
unit you describe in your ar- 
ticle, using a scope as an 
output, and possibly inter- 
face it to a computer later. 
Bob Vinson 

The two kinds of silver/ 
silver-chloride electrodes I 
tried were P/N 5113 from 
American Optical and P/N 
14245B from Hewlett- 
Packard. The probes 
themselves were nothing 
more than fancy clips at the 
end of 3 feet of shielded 
cable. When using three 
probes as shown in the arti- 
cle, the three shields are 
connected together and at- 
tached to the guard input of 
the isolation amplifier. 

I hope this information 
helps Steve 



Remote Data Entry 

Dear Steve, 

I have been trying to find 
a way of interfacing inex- 
pensive terminals (calcula- 
tor-pad type) to the TRS-80. 
I have also been trying to 
locate a method for doing 
this with as many as thirty- 
two terminals. The system 
would be used as a feedback 
device for working with 
small to classroom-size 
groups. Can you give me 
any leads to manufacturers 
of hardware, designers of 
such systems, and persons 
who have expertise in such 
matters? 
Brother Eugene Meyerpeter, SM 

In the September 1980 
BYTE, my "Circuit Cellar" 
article was entitled "Build a 
Low-Cost, Remote Data- 
Entry Terminal" (see page 
26). And it is exactly what 
you need. To build this ter- 
minal, it takes essentially a 
calculator pad, which you 



make into a serial terminal 
using only two integrated 
circuits. All communication 
is at 1200 bps (bits per sec- 
ond), full duplex. 

To use it in your environ- 
ment, you would build 
thirty-two of them and at- 
tach them to the TRS-80 
through a serial port (such 
as the Radio Shack TRS-232 
board or a COMM-80). To 
communicate with a single 
student, you would need a 
32-position switch to allow 
you to select the individual 
line from that student's ter- 
minal. All outputs to the 
remote terminals can be tied 
together when you want the 
same message sent to all 
units simultaneously. 

I have presented the 
design, but I don't know 
anyone producing it current- 
ly. Perhaps you could find 
an enterprising person who 
would custom-build thirty- 
two of them for you from 
my schematic... Steve 



Voltage Fluctuations 

Dear Steve, 

I have a Radio Shack 
TRS-80 Model I. Occa- 
sionally the machine acts 
strangely, either by 
"locking-up" so that the 
reset button must be used to 
start it again, or by random- 
ly accessing the disk. When 
I first got the disks, the 
problem with the random 
accesses was quite frequent. 
I have since purchased 
Radio Shack's power-line 
filter and it seems to have 
almost eliminated the prob- 
lem. 

I suspect that the difficul- 
ty is caused by fluctuations 
in the voltage in my office. I 
have noticed interference on 
the video display when run- 
ning the printer and when 
the air-conditioning unit 
starts. However, neither of 
these seems to cause the 
problem, at least, not con- 
sistently. 

The landlord says that the 
power service into the 
building is 600 amps. Also, 
certain offices having 
unusual power requirements 
have their own circuits 



within the building (not, 
however, separate service 
entirely). He also has some 
sort of transformer that he 
says should eliminate fluc- 
tuations caused by the air 
conditioners. 

My questions are: 

• Is the TRS-80 sensitive to 
power fluctuations? 

• If so, how can I monitor 
the circuits in my office to 
determine whether the com- 
puter's requirements are 
being met? 

• If the circuits aren't ade- 
quate, is there any way to 
shield the computer from 
the fluctuations? 

• If power fluctuations 
aren't to blame, what might 
be? 

I have no knowledge of 
electronics, so I would be 
interested in either buying or 
renting (or borrowing) what- 
ever I might need to solve 
the problem, rather than 
building something. 
Guerri F Stevens 

Intermittent operation and 
bizarre behavior are by no 
means limited to the 
TRS-80. It can be a problem 
with any computer installed 
and operating under what 
might be termed marginal 
conditions. There are quite a 
few TRSSOs, so, if just 1 % 
have problems, approx- 
imately 3000 people would 
have complaints. 

The first order of business 
is to determine the source of 
the problem. Three possibili- 
ties immediately come to 
mind: 

• bus cabling between 
peripherals 

• power fluctuations 

• power-line transients and 
induced noise 

Make sure you keep the 
interconnecting cables be- 
tween peripherals away 
from power lines and as 
short as possible. Do not 
leave equipment attached 
directly to the computer that 
is not powered or properly 
terminated. Keep the bus ca- 
bling and disk cables away 
from the left side of the 



282 February 19S1 © BYTE Publications Inc 






Year End Surplus Inventory 

New Data Terminals 

Mfgs. List 
Texas Instruments price 

Model KSR 733 $1050.00 ... $1920.00 

with modem $1250.00 ... $2335.00 

Teletype 

Model 43(4320 AAE $850.00 ... $1355.00 

Immediate Delivery 

703-893-2250 Ext. 270 

Milton Foster 

7798 Old Springhouse Road 

McLean, Va. 22102 




Get Paid 

for 

Your Software! 

Established publisher 
looking for new and 
interesting business 
and communication 
oriented applications 
for Apple computers. 
No games. 

Send Info to: 

M.G. Hill 

54 Ridge Avenue 

Newton Center, MA 02159 



8035 SYSTEMS 

A compact modular set of PC Boards for im- 
plementing test instruments, measurement 
and control systems, badge readers, data 
communications, data entry, games or home 
security systems. 

KIT A&T 

S99 S125 



CPU Board. 8035. 2 71 6 

1 K RAM. 40 I/O Lines 

SIO Board. 3 8251A. RS 232 

Dr/Rec. 6 LEDs 

PIO Board. 2 8255 PIOs. 
Line Drivers 

2 or 3 Slol Mother Boards . . . 
Power Supply. 5V, 12VS-12V 
Diagnostic EPROM andListing 

Bare Boards. Schematics and 
Parts Lists, each 



99 

99 
~55 



125 

125 

50 
65 
40 



. . S19.95 

Boards are 4" by 7". 8$ pins. 156 centers edge 
connector. Development Tools available on 
CPM. 

Make check payable to: 

SKP Electronics 

221 1 Caper Tree Or .Tustin. CA 92680 

(714)832-1732 
California residents add 6°o sales tax 
Please add S3 00 for shipping and handling 



Circle 193 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 35 on Inquiry card. 



A NEW WIRELESS AC REMOTE CONTROL 
INTERFACE for the Sears and SSR X-lo home 
control system. Use your present TRS-80 Level 
II, Apple II or S100 computer to provide com- 
plete home security through control of lights, 
appliances and motors with a few simple BASIC 
commands. 

As featured in: 
"COMPUTERIZE A HOME" BYTE. January 1980 



Busy Box - Assembled & tested 
For TRS80 ..$109.95 
ForSlOO .... 119.95 
For Apple II. ..114. 95 

Realtime control 
software - TRS-60 19.95 
Toordercall (516) 374-6793 
or write: The MicroMint Inc 

917 Midway, 

Woodmere. NY 11598 

DEALER INQUIRIES 
INVITED 




BUSY BOX 




SPELLING 




eliminated with 

SPELLGUARD™ 

Proofreads 100 pp. per minute 
with Wordstar or Magicwand. 

Spellguard $295 

Wordstar $325 

w/Spellguard $595 

Magicwand $275 

w/Spellguard $520 

TDA 1635 Schot)l st - 

I rMlvloraga, CA 94557 

(415) 376-3753 




OAE's PP-Series EPROM Programmers plug 
directly into any vacant EPROM socket and 
allow you to transfer data directly from RAM 
to E PRO Ms. No additional power supplies are 
required. All timing & control sequences are 
handled by the programmer. Each unit in- 
cludes internal DC to DC switching regulator, 
ZIF and 4 ft. ribbon cable terminated with a 24 
pin plug. Programmers are available for all 
EPROMs from 2708's thru 2532's. 

Oliver Advanced Engineering, Inc. 

676 W. Wilson Ave., Glendale, CA 91203 

(213) 240-0B00 or Telex 194773. 

PP SERIES PROGRAMMERS 



Circle 326 on inquiry card. 



A ATARI* 

COMPLETE LINE OF ATARI 
COMPUTER PRODUCTS 20% OFF 

Atari BOO with 16K $799 

Alari 810 Disk Drive $525 

Alari 815 Dual Disk Drive $1200 

NOW IN STOCKI 

RAMCRAM 32K RAM MODULES $256 

VISICALC $170 



WE ARE ATARI EXPERTS IN 
BOTH HARDWARE AND SOFTWARE 



EXCLUSIVE BIT BUCKET SOFTWARE 
FOR ATARI: 
Utilities Disk with Disassembler, 
Character Generator, Basic Renumberer, 

Cruncher Utility (requires 24K) $45 

Brain Games Disk with MastercorJe. Hex, 

Memory, Mr. Simon $30 

Action Games Disk $30 

•jfial ^ E ^" Bucket 

,<rvyr 168 Noun Beacon Sireet 

.'.,. . PO Box 365 

ryl Newlon Highlands. M<\ 02161 

°t_J Phono 1617) 783 3144 



LETTER QUALITY 

DAISY WHEEL 
PRINTER $2,195.00 

* Based on latest version of electronic 
typewriter by Olivetti, Ltd. 

* Use offline as typewriter 

* RS232C Interface Standard 

* Over 200 words per minute 

* 10, 12 ck 15 C.P.I. 

* International Type Fonts 

* Available Immediately 
Money order or C.O.D. to: 

Vertical Data Systems, Inc 

1215 Meyerside Dr., Unit 2A 

Mississauga, Ontario, Canada 

L5T 1H3 

(416)671-1752 



Circle 327 on inquiry card. 



! (SURPLUS NEW! ! 

IIMTEL BOARDS 

ASKING DIST. COST OR LESS; 
WILL ACCEPT BEST OFFER. 
LIST ASKING 



SBC 80/20 COMPUTER 
$925 $650 

SBC 534 QUAD SERIAL IO _ 

790 550 

SBC 711 ANALOG INPUT 

1400 600 

SBC 604 4 SLOT CAGE 

235 170 

SBC 614 4 SLOT EXPANDER 

235 170 

BLC416 NATIONAL 16K EPROM 

330 250 

QUANTITIES LIMITED! 
CALL KIRK OR BOB AT 

[91 83 664-2255. 






Circle 328 on inquiry card. 



Circle 329 on inquiry card. 



Ask BYTE 

video display (where it can 
pick up noise from the high- 
voltage flyback trans- 
former). 

Power fluctuations can in- 
deed cause marginal opera- 
tion. In my mind, however, 
there are two separate prob- 
lems: fluctuations and tran- 
sients. Fluctuations are slow 
(greater than 5 ms) voltage 
changes involving a 10 or 
20% variation in line 
voltage. As long as the line 
voltage does not dip below 
105 V AC, you should be all 
right. Have you ever noticed 
your room lights dim when 
you plug in a toaster or an 
air conditioner? Well, that 
dimming of the lights is a 
typical case of power-line 
fluctuation. A drop of only 
a few volts will visibly dim 
a lamp. Fixing this problem 
is easy, but it is expensive. 

Transients, on the other 
hand, are fast (1 fis to 5 fas) 
changes in line voltage. Gen- 
erally these are caused by 
the inductive kickback of 
motors and equipment. Usu- 
ally, the more sophisticated 



measures employed to limit 
general line noise (a power- 
line filter) will eliminate this 
problem as well. If you have 
particularly strong narrow- 
band noise, then a special 
low-pass filter may have to 
be used. For example, if the 
reason your computer mal- 
functions is the 200 W radio 
transmitter from the busi- 
ness next door, then a 
30 MHz filter might be 
required. 

The fact that you have no 
knowledge of electronics 
limits the diagnostic tests 
that you could use to deter- 
mine the problem. If you 
can find a nearby Radio 
Shack store (or, perhaps, a 
friendly technician) where 
you can obtain a VOM 
(volt-ohm-meter), set it on 
the 200 V AC range and put 
the probes in the wall socket 
next to the computer. The 
"safe range" is between 110 
and 120 V AC. If, however, 
you notice the indicator 
taking a dive every now 
and then, you have a line- 
regulation problem. This is 



bra™ ffimnGDn 




P K^^^J^C^ 




P 


b [ 






b 


Q 


^Vt^S^^^^ Pr*^ 







9 




**r ^^^^ 


9 


9 


^^^^^ 


9 


n j 


OT PACKAGE SI600O 


n 


1 ^ L2D 4, L3P PACKAGES S36O0O 
IfS | MAURO PROAC MP 250 PLOTTER 563500 


LI 


I 3 «"" L3D package 5JS5CO 

U w.lh L2D 1 L3P packages S95000 


n 


MAURO PLOTTER - Uses II' wide paper ol any length sucn as B - bond or 17" graph paper Plotting 




resolution .s 200 steps per inch w.ih 005 Hacking error at plotting speeds ol up to 2' •" per second Uses 




standard liber l.ppenslhalcanbeobla.nedalanySlal.onaivSloie ReOunesonl v5 b.tsolaparallelou.Piil port 




1 1 Vector driver software m source is supplied with mc plotter lor 6080 280 6502 & 6800 micro processors 

□| APPLE TRS 80 and RS 232 interface cards are available as options 

LEAPAC SOFTWARE - Complete Iwodimensional and perspective plomng soil ware packages are available 


p 


L SI become obsoleled as vou upgrade your plotting equipment The sollwaru is supplied as 8080 Z80 relative 


p 


UL1 linking 1ibraneslL80lloi MICROSOF T compalable oroduc is FORTRAN 80 COBOL 80 COMPILER BASIC a.rd 




f pi] MACRO 80 on 8- CP M, or 5'." NQHTHSTAR TRS BO or HEATH 89 comrjaiable diskeites 

l_yj L2D PACKAGE - Two dimensional plot package trial contains over 25 emr.esihat allowyouioctipor 


|DJ 


■ v window your drawings annolate vourdraw.ngs and draw ell. Dlical curves Contains CalCompComp 

P alable calls such as PLOTS PLOT WHERE FACTOR etc 
! — -' L3P PACKAGE - Perspective or Ihree dimensional clot package that contains over 70 enlr.es that 


Q 


nj] allow vou to plot perspective hgures such as the self portrait above Routines for STEREO GENERA 
| TION ZOOMING FLY BYS. and ANIMATION are built into the package lor minimal programming 


H 


I 1 pages describing the use of Ihe above packages Cedil back on purchase oi packages 


□ 


] Besides Ihe Mauro Plotter interlace, optional drivers are available lo. CalCompand Houston Instrument Drum 
S r plolteis Houston Instrument HIPLOT CMP 3 4(17 plollers. and diasv wheel or spindle printers such as 


9 


U DIABLO 1620 r. 1640 OUME SPRINT 5 and NEC 5510 & 5520 




1 Ej LEAPAC SERVICES (916) 381-1717 

2 ) 82*5 MEDITERRANEAN WAY SACHAMENTO CALIFORNIA 95826 


L5 


' CP- M is a regislered trade markol Digital HesearCh. Inc 
HIPLOT & DMP are trade marks ol Houston Instrument 




TRS 80 is a trade mark ol Tandy Coiporal.on 




280 is a trade mark ol Zilog. Inc 





only a rudimentary check, 
because the meter has slow 
response. Checking for line 
noise and transients requires 
an oscilloscope (to see the 
fast pulses). 

If you find you need 
better power-line regulation, 
you will have to resort to a 
constant-voltage transformer 
from the power company 
(or it may be installed pri- 
vately). Two companies to 
contact for further informa- 
tion are: Sola Electric, 
1717G Busse Rd, Elk Grove 
Village IL 60007, (312) 
439-2800, and California In- 
struments, 5150G Convoy 
St, San Diego CA 92111, 
(714) 279-8620. Finally, if all 
else fails, you could encase 
the entire computer in 
copper screening and run it 
from a battery. See my arti- 
cle on "Electromagnetic In- 
terference" in last month's 
BYTE.... Steve 



Should I, or 
Should I Not? 

Dear Steve, 

I would like your opinion 
on the purchase of a com- 
puter through mail order. 

Although a Radio Shack 
dealer is only a 5-minute 
walk from my house, the 
discounts offered by out-of- 
state dealers on the TRS-80 
make a mail-order purchase 
very tempting. Can you give 
me your thoughts before I 
send a $700 check to some- 
one sight unseen? 
David Kupferman 

The only sure way to tell 
the winners from the losers 
in the mail-order business is 
with time. No company that 
is crooked will be in 
business very long. 
Remember that there have 
been those occasions where 
many people were swindled 
in a short period of time, as 
happened with World Power 
Systems. For the most part, 
the good prevail. 

I suggest that you review 
past issues of BYTE and 
look for advertisers who 
have been there for a long 
time and have steadily in- 
creased their product line. 
This will give you some in- 



dication of stability and 
market responsibility. 

While it is always good to 
go to a store and see the 
item that you are pur- 
chasing, much can be gained 
from mail-order buying. In 
general, mail-order outlets 
offer discounts well below 
the store prices, and, when 
you order outside of your 
home state, you usually pay 
no sales tax; however, you 
often pay shipping costs. 

If you are still concerned, 
find someplace that takes 
cash-on-delivery orders and 
pay for your computer 
when it arrives on your 
doorstep Steve 



Modem 

Dear Steve, 

Thanks for the article on 
modems. (See "A Build-It- 
Yourself Modem for Under 
$50," August 1980 BYTE 
page 22.) It got me thinking 
about something. 

I am an ACM (Associa- 
tion for Computing 
Machinery) member at OSU 
(Ohio State University). I 
am lucky enough to be able 
to have an open account on 
computers like the DEC 
PDP-10, IBM 370, and 
PDP-11. To log onto the 
system, you call a telephone 
number, and I would like to 
use the modem you de- 
scribed to do this from my 
dorm room. (I have to walk 
about fifteen blocks to get 
to the computer center, and, 
boy, is it cold in the 
winter.) 

How can I build a cheap 
key board/modem/ television 
set terminal? I can wire- 
wrap and understand 
schematic diagrams. I know 
a bit about computers but 
not a lot. 
Marc Taylor 

At first I was going to 
point out that there have 
been numerous articles in 
previous issues of BYTE on 
the design and construction 
of a video terminal. There 
are also some kits offered 
for less than $200 in the 
advertisements at the back 
of every issue. At least that's 
what I was going to say. 



284 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 194 on Inquiry card. 




Can You Tell Which Tax Practitioner 
Uses Aardvark Software? 



AardvarkSoftware, specializing in tax-related applications, helps you save time and energy while your 
clients' benefit from the most comprehensive tax programs available. Our programs are designed 
by CPAs with over 17 years of "Big Eight" taxexperience. These programs meet or exceed the require- 
ments of most professional tax practitioners. 

Our programs run on a variety of microcomputers, including Apple, TRS-80 and Commodore. 



Tax Preparation 

"Tax Prep" allows you to easily calculate your 
clients' Federal Form 1040, all lettered sched- 
ulesexceptR & RP and the most frequently used 
numbered forms. Selected state forms are also 
available. Since this system is user-oriented 
even a novice can process returns immediately. 

Price $495 

Tax Planning 

"Tax Plan" is designed to eliminate hours of 
work and human error in evaluating various tax 
alternatives for your clients. It allows you to 
enter a variety of income and expense items 
and to determine the tax effects attributable 
to changes in one or more items. 

Introductory Price $395 



Depreciation 

Quickly computes current year bonus and tax 
preference depreciation, investment tax credit, 
and investment credit recapture. At your option 
the program will automatically switch from 
accelerated to straight line depreciation, when 
beneficial. Printed output is available in tax 
return and/or worksheet format. 

Introductory Price $150 

Estate Tax Planning 

"Estate Plan" permits a comparative analysis 
of the Estate & Gift Tax effects of different levels 
of wealth and/or lifetime gift strategies. The 
user hasthe ability to input a variety of taxable 
estate assets and valuations. 

Introductory Price $595 



Aardvark Software 1 " programs are fast, efficient and easy to use. 

Of course, if you enjoy working nights, weekends, holidays,... 

For more information, please write orcall us. 



AARDVARK SOFTWARE IMC 

The Microcomputer People for Professionals 

783 NORTH WATER STREET M ILWAUKEE. WISCONSIN 53202 414/289-9988 



Circle 120 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



285 



Ask BYTE 

However, I have changed 
my mind in favor of prac- 
tical reality. 

Microcomputers and ter- 
minals configured from them 
are becoming cheaper all the 
time. It isn't quite like the 
6-transistor radio or the cal- 
culator — yet. But, you may 
find that the cost of building 
a terminal is greater than 
what it costs to buy one. 
This is especially true if you 
purchase used equipment. 

Also, the new Radio 
Shack Videotex combination 
terminal and modem for 
$399 is worth investigating. 
It sounds exactly like what 
you need — at a reasonable 
price. 

As soon as I can get a 
chance, I'm going to attempt 
to make a terminal using the 
Sinclair ZX80 computer. 
How does a $300 smart ter- 
minal sound?... Steve 



Shedding Some Light 

Dear Steve, 

My name is Chris 



Richard, and I'm 13 years 
old. I am doing a science 
project called "Talking on a 
Beam of Light." I saw your 
article in the May 1979 
BYTE (see "Communicate 
on a Light Beam," page 32), 
and I was wondering if you 
could tell me where I can 
buy some optical fibers. 
Could you also send me a 
list of reading material on 
optical communications; I 
am especially interested in 
getting several plans for op- 
tical transmitters and 
receivers. 

I really enjoyed your arti- 
cle, and I learned a lot from 
it. Thank you for any help 
you can give me. 
Chris Richard 



The best sources of infor- 
mation on optical fibers are 
the manufacturers them- 
selves. Many of them 
publish application notes 
which are usually free for 
the asking. Three of the 
largest suppliers are: Amp 



Inc. 449G Eisenhower Blvd, 
Harrisburg PA 17105; Corn- 
ing Glass, Electronic Prod- 
ucts Division, Department 
G, Houghton PkA2, Corn- 
ing NY 14830; and Galileo 
Electro Optics, Department 
G, Galileo Pk, Sturbridge 
MA 01918. 

Another source of circuits 
comes from optoelectronics 
manufacturers application 
notes. These are companies 
with familiar names like 
Texas Instruments, General 
Instrument, General 
Electric, and Hewlett- 
Packard. Any good library 
should have an electronics 



manufacturers product direc- 
tory. Ask the librarian if he 
or she has the Gold Book or 
EEM Directory. 

As far as getting optical 
fiber materials, unless you 
want a few thousand feet of 
cable, I suggest you write 
for a catalog from: Edmund 
Scientific Company, Depart- 
ment G, E Gloucester Pike, 
Barrington N] 08007. 

I think you have chosen a 
good subject. I wish you 
luck. When you write to the 
optics companies, tell them 
it is for a science fair pro- 
ject. You may find them to 
be very helpful....SteveM 



In "Ask BYTE," Steve Garcia answers questions on any area of 
microcomputing. The most representative questions received 
each month will be answered and published. Do you have a nag- 
ging problem? Send your inquiry to: 

Ask BYTE 

do Steve Garcia 

POB 582 

Glastonbury CT 06033 
If you are a subscriber to The Source, send your questions by 
electronic mail or chat with Steve (TCE317) directly. Due to the 
high volume of inquiries, personal replies will be given as time 
permits. Please enclose a self-addressed, stamped envelope, and 
be sure to include "Ask BYTE" in the address. 



THE CONFIGURABLE BUSINESS SYSTEM™ 
helps you move full speed ahead when you 
use a computer. Developed by program- 
ming experts especially for the micro- 
processor environment, CBS provides all 
the detailed documentation you need to 



more efficiently — and more effectively. 

It gives you a method instead of madness. 
And a program instead of problems. 

Disks and manual, $395. Manual only, $40. 



ALL SYSTEMS GO 



create customized systems without using a 
computer language. 

From your initial data input to your file 
design, CBS helps you use your computer 



CBS Disks can fit any 8080 or Z80 computer with a 
CP/M." Your DMA representative can tell you about 
DMA»DOS, our CP/M compatible operating system, 
and ASCOM, an Asynchronous Communication Con- 
trol Program. 



DMA • WE SPEAK YOUR LANGUAGE 



DYNAMIC MICROPROCESSOR ASSOCIATES / 545 Fifth Avenue/New York, New York 10017/(212) 953-1721/MasterCharge and VISA accepted. 
We ship prepaid and COD orders. Shipping and handling charges extra. CP/M" is a Trademark of Digital Research Corp. 



286 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 195 on Inquiry card. 




Our State of the Art 
thinking gave you 
S ARGON. 

But chess isn't all 
we think about! 



SARGON II (Spracklen) The Champ of champs 
"..an excellent program which will provide a 
(rue challenge for many players - Save your money 
and buy SARGON II ... " '80 Software Critique. 
03403. TRS 80 Level II: 03404. Apple It: 03410. OSI 
CIP: 03440. OSI C4P: 03401. PET: each tape S29.95. 
03408. TRS 80 Level II Disk: 03409. Apple I! Disk: 
03414. OSI CIP Disk: 03444. OSI C4P Disk: 
03484. C8P Disk: each $34.95 



BLACKJACK MASTER: A Simulator Tutor 
Game (Wazaney) A serious game that performs 
complex simulations and evaluations of playing and 
betting strategies. 05303. TRS 80 Level 11 tape. 
$24.95:05308. TRS80Disk Versitn. $2995 

REVERSAL (Spracklenl 

Winner of the software division of the First Inter 

national Man Machine OTHELLO'* Tournament. 

this version of the 200 year old game Reversi .features 

27 levels of play and high resolution color graphics 

07004. APPLE II tape. $29 95:07009. APPLE II Disk. 

$34.95 

APPLESOFT UTILITY PROGRAMS (Gilder) 
Increase your BASIC programming speed and flexi 
bility. Contains 9 useful subroutines: 1 . REM Wrilei 
2. PRINT Writer 3. POKE Writer 4. Hexadecimal 
Decimal Converter 5. Line Counter 6. Renumber 
7. Append 8 Byte Counter 9. Slow Lisl Stop List 
03504. Apple II tape. $29. 95 

FLASH & CRASH SOUND EFFECTS 

(American Micro Products) 

A collection of 18 subroutines that can be incorpo 

rated into your own programs to produce sound 

effects with the American Micro Products music 

board. Included are: Train. Explosion. Phaser. 

Chimes. Sirens. Jet and 12 others. 

08709. APPLE II Disk. $39.95 



6502 DISASSEMBLER (Stamm) 
Produce assembly language source files with labeled 
subroutines and references from programs already 
in memory It is compatible with Hayden's ASSEM 
Bl.Y LANGUAGE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM. 
08609. APPLE // Disk. S34.95 

PSEUDODISK(Neuschatz) 

This money saving program simulates a disk memory 
system for Integer BASIC programs. It allows multi 
pie programs in memory al the same time which 
can be run from a catalog 04804. APPLE II tape. 
$24.95 

LINE & VARIABLE CROSS REFERENCE 
GENERATOR (Johnson) Provides a cross refer 
ence of line numbers and variable names. 07301. 
PET tape. $16.95 

DISK CATALOGER (LeBar) 
Automatically maintains a cross reference listing 
of all your programs, their location by disk number, 
their function and use. Catalogs, lists and sorts 
programs. 05203, TRS 80 Level II taoe. $16.95: 
05208. TRS80 Level II Disk. $2195 

APPLE'" ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE DEVEL- 
OPMENT SYSTEM: An Assembler Edilor 

Formatter (Lutus) Write and modify your machine 
language programs quickly and easily. 04609. Apple 
II Disk Version. S39.95 

SUPER APPLE'" BASIC (Lutus) A structured 
BASIC that compiles into an optimized Applesoft 
or Integer BASIC program 05409. Apple II Disk. 
$39.95 

MAILING LIST (Tru Data Software) Lists 
addresses, prints labels, allows for alterations and 
deletions, and has the capacity to make duplicate 
data file disks. Can only be used with version 1 .5. 
05713. Heath tape. $49 95 



■ ORDERING INFORMATION 




Hayden J 


•m Send me the software checked helow A check or money 
order is enclosed 1 undersland thai Haydf n pays shipping 




Book Company, Inc. ■ 


■ and handling costs and ih 


at 1 can return .my disk or tape 


within 5 


Essex Street 


fl 10 days il il is defective or 


1 am dissatisfied with il for am 








m reason Residenls ol NJ and CA musl add sales lax (Jl 


er 






good in US only 










■ □ 00100 


□ 02404 □ 03401 


□ 03414 


O 04503 


□ 05103 □ 07009 ■ 


■ □ 01401 


□ 02501 D 03403 


D 03440 


D 04504 


D 05108 D 07301 ■ 


■ □ 01403 


□ 02503 □ 03404 


□ 03444 


□ 04513 


□ 05203 □ 07809 ■ 


■ □ 01404 


□ 02601 □ 03408 


□ 034H4 


□ 04609 


□ 05208 □ 08609 ■ 


■ O 01407 


D 02701 □ 03409 


□ 03504 


□ 04804 


□ 05.308 □ 08709 ■ 


■ □ 01413 


□ 03304 D 03410 


□ 04501 


□ 04909 


□ 1)5409 □ 5681 8 ■ 
















_ Name of individual ordering musl be filled in 






B2 81 ■ 



FINPLAN: A Financial Planning Program for 
Small Business {Montgomery) Allows you to enter 
data from a balance sheet into the program, lomake 
assumptions about future growth of business, and 
to have the computer project results for up to a five- 
year period based on those assumptions- And if 
you change any data, the program revises all result 
ing data automatically. The disk version can only 
be used with TRSDOS Version 2 3 05103, TRS-80 
Level II tape, S69.95; 05/08. TRS 80 Level II Disk 
Version. $74.95 

DATA MANAGER: A Data Base Management 

System and Mailing List (Lutus) Store information 
on a floppy disk, and retrieve it quickly and easily 
by specific names, or by category. 04909. Apple II 
Disk Version, $49.95 

MCAP: A Microcomputer Circuit Analysis 
Program (Savon) Performs a linear voltage, 
impedance, or transfer impedance analysis of an 
electronic circuit 04501. PET:04503.TRS-80Level 
II: 04504. Apple II; each lape $24 95: 045J3. 
HeathkitZemth Disk. $29.95 

MICROCOMPUTER AIDED DESIGN OF 
ACTIVE FILTERS (Gilder) Eight programs that 
simplify the design of active filters and will calculate 
the component values needed for various bandpass, 
low pass, and notch-type filters. 01401. PET: 01403. 
TRS-80 Level II; 01404. Apple II; 01407. Heath: each 
tape $16.95: 01413. Heathkit Zenith Disk Version. 
$21.95 

DISK CERTIFIER AND COPIER (Jacc Inc ) 
A handy utility program that certifies theacceptability 
of blank diskettes and rejects those with flaws. It 
also includes a fast machine language disk copying 
program that will work on single and dual drive 
systems. 07809. APPLE II Disk. $19.95 

SONGS IN THE KEY OF APPLE (Lopatin) 
Allows you to see and hear your favorite tunes, pre- 
programmed tunes or music you create (up to 200 
notes, including rests, per musical piece). 03304, 
Apple il tape. $10 95 

HOW TO BUILD A COMPUTER-CON- 
TROLLED ROBOT (Loofbourrow) Contains 5 

control programs that consist of: Joystick Control 
Program; Self-Direction Program; Impact Sensor 
Control Routine; and more. 00100. KIM-1 tape. $14.95 
Should be used with text HOW TO BUILD A 
COMPUTER-CONTROLLED ROBOT, 5681 8. 
S9.75 

Applets a trademark ol Apple Computet Con-.panv. ''K . 
and is ti()f affiliated with Harden Book Company. Im 



Call Toll Free 

24 hours a day, 

(1 800-821 -3777, ext. 302)* TO CHARGE 
YOUR ORDER TO Master Card or Visa. 
Minimum order is $10.00; customer pays 
postage and handling. 
From Missouri call ( 1 -800 892 7655, ext. 302) 



Hayden 



50 Essex Street, Rochelle Park, IS J 07662 Book Company, ItlC. 



Circle 196 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 287 



System Notes 



Forcing the Z80 Starting Address 



Randy Soderstrom, 1201 W Valencia Apt 224, 
Fullerton CA 92633 

Late in the design phase of my homebrew Z80 micro- 
processor-based system I realized there would be a prob- 
lem in bringing the system up. My monitor program was 
in ROM (read-only memory) and was written to begin at 
hexadecimal page F0, character 00. My programmable 
memory began at page 00, character 00, and to further 



: IC3 

; 74126 



7102 




Z80 
)DATA 

BUS 



OD7" 



OD6 



C>D5 



O d " 



0>D3 



0°2 



r>Di 



O>D0 



Q> Z80 

RESET 



7432 



RD O 



FROM Z80 



lirTN— T^MEMORY 

noi J | — 'decoding 

~l ' CIRCUIT 



Figure 1: This circuit will force a Z80 microprocessor to begin 
execution at hexadecimal page F0, character 00, instead of page 
00, character 00. The circuit can be easily modified to begin ex- 
ecution at other addresses. 



complicate matters, my system had no front panel. 

I faced a number of problems in order to get the pro- 
cessor to begin execution at page F0. When the Z80 reset 
line was enabled, it zeroed the program counter, causing 
execution to begin at location 00. Since the interrupt 
mode was unpredictable on power up, it was no help 
either. 

After some thought, I came up with the circuit shown 
in figure 1. When the Z80 reset line goes low, the circuit 
prevents the memory from being enabled. Instead, ma- 
chine code is generated for a jump to the start of the pro- 
gram monitor. 

When the reset switch is pushed, flip-flop ICl (in- 
tegrated circuit 1) is set. This makes the output of OR 
gate I C2 h igh, no matter what happens with the pro- 
cessor RD line. Any memory-read operations are in- 
hibited and the IC3 buffers are activated. 

While all of this is happening, the Z80 is clearing the 
program counter and will begin execution on pa ge zer o at 
location 00. However, when the Z80 pulses the RD line 
low, the OR gate (IC2) blocks it, and no memory data is 
placed on the bus. 

The IC4 NOR gates decode the address, which in this 
case is 00, and place hexadecimal C3 on the data bus. 
Since this is the machine code for a jump instruction, it is 
executed as such. 

Next, the processor expects to find the low bits of the 
branch address. Address 01 is decoded to address 00 and 
is placed on the data bus. It will be used as the eight low- 
order bits of the branch address. 

Finally, the Z80 places 02 on its address bus and ex- 
pects the eight high-order bits of the branch address on 
the data bus. Gates IC4 place hexadecimal F0 on the 
system data bus. After this byte is read, the Z80 executes 
the entire instruction and jumps to page F0, character 00. 

Because of the jump, address bit A15 goes from low to 
high, clocking a zero into the flip-flop. This change dis- 
ables the buffers and restores the system to its normal 
state. 

The Z80's refresh cycle does not interfere with the cir- 
cuit. The refresh register operates only on A0 through 
A6. 

If you require a more complex initialization, this same 
concept can be used with a ROM (read-only memory) 
placed on the bus rather than gates. Done in this manner, 
the memory space becomes free for other uses after in- 
itialization.! 



288 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Software Received 



The following is a list of software packages that have been 
received by BYTE Publications during the past month. The 
list is correct to the best of our knowledge, but it is not meant 
to be a full description of the product or the forms in which 
the product is available. In particular, some packages may be 
sold for several machines or in both cassette and floppy-disk 
format; the product listed here is the version received by 
BYTE Publications. 

This is an all-inclusive list that makes no comment on the 
quality or usefulness of the software listed. We regret that 
we cannot review every software package we receive. In- 
stead, this list is meant to be a monthly acknowledgment of 
these packages and the companies that sent them. Com- 
panies sending software packages should be sure to include 
the list price of the packages and (where appropriate) the 
alternate forms in which they are available. 



Apex, disk operating 
system for the Apple II. 
Floppy disk, $99. Apparat 
Inc, 4401 S Tamarac Pky, 
Denver CO 80237. 

Apple Assembly-Language 
Development System, a 6502 
assembler/editor for the 
Apple II. Floppy disk, 
$39.95. Hayden Book Com- 
pany Inc, 50 Essex St, 
Rochelle Park N] 07662. 

Asteroid, graphics game 
for the Apple II. Floppy 
disk, $20. Adventure Inter- 
national, POB 3435, 
Longwood FL 32750. 

Communications Software 
for the RS-232C, utility pro- 
gram for the transmission of 
data over telephone wires. 
Cassette, $29.95. Radio 
Shack, 1 Tandy Ctr, Fort 
Worth TX 76102. 

Concentration, graphics 
game with sound for the 
TRS-80. Cassette, $9.95. 
Adventure International (see 
above). 

Data Manager, data base 
system for the Apple II. 
Floppy disk, $49.95. Hayden 
Book Company Inc (see 
above). 

Dogfight, graphics game 
for the Apple II. Floppy 
disk, $29.95. Micro Lab, 811 
Stonegate Dr, Highland 
Park IL 60035. 

FINPLAN, a small 
business financial planning 
program for the TRS-80. 
Floppy disk, $74.95. Hayden 
Book Company Inc (see 
above). 

Generate, a TRS-80 pro- 
gram generator. Floppy 



disk, $100. DataWorks Inc, 
97 Jackson St, Cambridge 
MA 02140. 

Interactive Fiction — His 
Majesty's Ship Impetuous, 
role-playing game for the 
TRS-80. Floppy disk, 
$19.95. Adventure Interna- 
tional (see above). 

Interactive Fiction — Local 
Call for Death, role-playing 
game for the TRS-80. Flop- 
py disk $19.95. Adventure 
International (see above). 

Interactive Fiction — Six 
Micro Stories, role-playing 
game for the TRS-80. Flop- 
py disk, $14.95. Adventure 
International (see above). 

Interactive Fiction — Two 
Heads of the Coin, role- 
playing game for the 
TRS-80. Floppy disk, 
$19.95. Adventure Interna- 
tional (see above). 

Magician's Hat, a game 
program for the Com- 
modore PET/CBM. Floppy 
disk, $25. Southern Soft- 
ware Ltd, 100 Anzac Ave, 
POB 8683, Auckland, New 
Zealand. 

Micro Music Audio 
Sampler, music composer 
package for the Apple II. 
Cassette, $5. Micro Music 
Inc, POB 386, Normal IL 
61761. 

Microtyping, touch-typing 
tutorial program for the 
Apple II. Cassette $10.95. 
Hayden Book Company Inc 
(see above). 

Musical Yat-C, strategy 
game for the TRS-80. 
Cassette, $9.95. Adventure 
International (see above). 



WE 
DELIVER! 



n VANDAIA if 

Business Software ii} 







\ 



Before you buy the programs that your company is going to 
depend on for its accounting, ask the following questions: 

Do I get the source (Don't settle for less. 

code? You cannot make the 

smallest change without it.) 

Is it well documented? (The Osborne documen- 
tation is the best.) 

Is it fully supported? (If not, why not? What are 
they afraid of?) 

The Osborne system is the industry standard accounting 
package, with literally thousands of users. We offer an en- 
hanced version of that package that will run on most systems 
without recompiling. 

CRT INDEPENDENCE. The original programs were 
designed to run on a Hazeltine terminal. To use a different 
CRT, you had to modify and test two modules — and recom- 
pile every program! With the Vandata package, you simply 
pick your CRT from a menu and run. 

FILE/DRIVE MAP. The original package had all data files 
on the same drive as the programs. Ours allows you to 
dynamically specify the drive assigned to each file. In fact, you 
can change the drive assignments whenever you wish, to ac- 
commodate expanded file sizes or new hardware — all 
without recompiling! 

INTEGRATION. The original AR and AP systems had to 
be changed and recompiled to feed journal entries to GL. Our 
installation program eliminates this hassle. It simply asks you if 
you want the systems integrated, and what your special ac- 
count numbers are. 

SPEED. The original programs used a binary search to ac- 
cess the GL account file. We use an enhanced technique that 
greatly cuts down on disk accesses, thus speeding up account 
lookups significantly in the GL, AR and AP systems. 

BUGS. We have corrected a number of bugs in the original 
programs. If you find a bug in our programs, we'll fix it — and 
send you a $20 reward! Our users are sent bug fixes in source 
form. 

MORE! We have made many minor enhancements, and 
fixed many minor problems. We are committed to the ongoing 
support of our package. Vandata has been an independent 
software supplier for over seven years. Quality and support are 
our way of doing business. 

General Ledger with Cash Journal $95 

Accounts Receivable $95 

Accounts Payable $95 

Payroll with Cost Accounting $95 

• All Four Packages (GL, AR, AP, PR) $295 

Magic Wand (Super Word Processor!!) $345 

Pearl Level III (best prog, tool available) $645 

CBASIC-2. $110 

TRS-80 1 " MODIICP/M* 2.2 (Pickles & Trout) $185 
H89/Z89 CP/M® 2.2 (Magnolia Microsystems)$249 

Formats. Sid. B". 5" NorlhSlar DD. TRS-80 MOD II®. H89/Z89 Manuals lor 
GL. AR/AP. and PR are not included in price — add $20 per manual desired 
(AR/AP are in one manual) CP/M® and CBASIC-2 required to run accounting 
soltware Users must sign licensing agreement Dealer inquiries invited. 

To order call: (206) 542-8370 
or write: VANDATA 

17541 Stone Avenue North 

Seattle, W A 98133 



CP/M° is a registered trademark ot Digital Research. 
TRS-80® is a registered Irademark of Radio Shack. Inc. 



Circle 197 on Inquiry card. 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 289 



Circle 198 on inquiry card. 



DISK DRIVE WOES? PRINTER INTERACTION? 
MEMORY LOSS? ERRATIC OPERATION? 

DON'T BLAME THE SOFTWARE! 




ISO-1 




ISO-2 



Power Line Spikes, Surges & Hash could be the culprit! 
Floppies, printers, memory & processor often interact! 
Our unique ISOLATORS eliminate equipment interaction 
AND curb damaging Power Line Spikes, Surges and Hash. 
'ISOLATOR (ISO-1 A) 3 filter isolated 3-prong sockets; 
integral Surge/Spike Suppression; 1875 W Maximum load, 

1 KW load any socket $56.95 

'ISOLATOR (ISO-2) 2 filter isolated 3-prong socket banks 

(6 sockets total); integral Spike/Surge Suppression; 

1875 W Max load, 1 KW either bank $56.95 

•SUPER ISOLATOR (ISO-3), similar to ISO-1A 

except double filtering & Suppression .... $85.95 

'ISOLATOR (ISO-4), similar to ISO-1 A except 

unit has 6 individually filtered sockets .... $96.95 

•ISOLATOR (ISO-5), similar to ISO-2 except 

unit has 3 socket banks, 9 sockets total . . . $79.95 

•CIRCUIT BREAKER, any model (add-CB) Add $ 7.00 

•CKT BRKR/SWITCH/PILOT (CBS) . . . .Add $14.00 

TOLL FREE ORDER DESK 1-800-225-4876 

(Except Ma, HI, Ak, Pr, Canada) 

££3 Electronic Specialists, Inc. 

171 South Main Street. Natick. Mass. 01760 Dept. B2 

TECHNICAL & NON-800 AREAS 1-617-655-1532 



Software Received. 



TEXAS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

Radio /hack 

Authorized Sales Center 

All Radio Shack merchandise available at a discount. Ask for our price list. 

We offer the lowest prices on 

■ COMPUTERS ■ 

MODEL II 64K $3349 P ,us S « 

All accessories for Model II available — disk expansions, printers and software. 



Check out our low, low prices on these fine printers: 

• Amdex 9500/9501 • The New Daisy Wheel II 

• Epson MX-80 * Line Printer V 

• Okidata Microline 80 



Special: Price our CP/M for the Model II. It offers 596 K per drive. 



* Payment: Money Order, Cashier's 
Check, Certified Check. Personal 
Checks require 3 weeks to clear. VISA, 
MASTERCHARGE — Add 3%. 

* Prices subject to change at any time. 



+ No tax out-of-state. TX add 5%. 
* All items new, guaranteed by 

manufacturer. 
+ Delivery subject to availability. 



TEXAS COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

An Authorized RADIO SHACK* Sales Center F70I 

Box 1174, Brady, Texas 76825 

TOLL FREE Number 800-351-1473 

Texas Residents 915-597-0673 



PECA — Passive Electronic 
Circuit Analysis, electronic 
design utility program for 
the TRS-80. Cassette, 
$19.95. Adventure Interna- 
tional (see above). 

Pen BASIC, machine- 
language utility for Photo- 
point Light Pen and TRS-80. 
Cassette, $14.95. Micro 
Matrix, POB 938, Pacifica 
CA 94044. 

PseudoDisk, a disk 
simulator for Apple II In- 
teger BASIC. Cassette, 
$24.95, Hayden Book Com- 
pany Inc (see above). 

Royal Flush, poker 
solitaire game for the Com- 
modore PET/CBM. Cas- 
sette, $14.95. Hayden Book 
Company Inc (see above). 

Royal Flush, poker 
solitaire game for the 
TRS-80. Cassette, $14.95. 
Hayden Book Company Inc 
(see above). 

Scramble, word-guessing 
game with sound for the 
TRS-80. Cassette, $9.95. 
Adventure International (see 
above). 

Shark Attack, game for 
the TRS-80. Cassette, $7.95. 
Adventure International (see 
above). 

Slag, multiplayer graphics 



game for the TRS-80. Cas- 
sette, $14.95. Adventure In- 
ternational (see above). 

Spelling, educational 
graphics game for the Apple 
II. Floppy disk, $21.95. Soft- 
ware by Witzel, 7778 S 
Poplar Way E, Englewood 
CO 80112. 

Star Trek 3.5, graphics 
game with sound for the 
TRS-80. Floppy disk, 
$19.95. Adventure Interna- 
tional (see above). 

TRS-80 Opera, music- 
playing program for the 
TRS-80. Cassette, $9.95. 
Adventure International (see 
above). 

Tunnels of Fahad, 
graphics "chase" game for 
the TRS-80. Cassette, $9.95. 
Adventure International (see 
above). 

Word Challenge, game 
with sound effects for the 
TRS-80. Cassette, $9.95. 
Adventure International (see 
above). 

Z-Chess III, chess-playing 
program for the TRS-80. 
Cassette, $24.95. Adventure 
International (see above). 

Zossed in Space, space ex- 
ploration for the TRS-80. 
Cassette, $14.95. Adventure 
International (see above). ■ 



BYTE's Bits 




ing, project management, 


Call for Papers 


personal computing, office 
automation, distributed 


The 1981 ACM Annual 
Conference is soliciting 
sapers for its annual con- 
ference to be held November 
9-11 in Los Angeles. Tech- 
nical papers should focus on 
innovations or recent ad- 
vances and should empha- 
size the connection between 
theory and applications. 
Suggested topics include 
operating systems, pro- 
gramming languages, data 
base systems, artificial in- 
telligence, business data pro- 
cessing, software engineer- 


systems, computer net- 
works, computer graphics, 
and simulation. 

Authors of papers or sur- 
veys must submit four 
copies of the work, typed 
and double-spaced, not ex- 
ceeding twelve pages in 
length. The deadline for 
submission is March 7, 
1981. Notification of accep- 
tance or rejection is by May 
1, 1981. Mail submissions to 
ACM 81— Call for Papers, 
Village Sta, POB 24059, Los 
Angeles CA 90024. ■ 



290 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 199 on inquiry card. 



Circle 201 on inquiry card. 



tt Micros aren't just for games anymore- 
AARDVARK gets down to brass TAX. f* 



AARDVARK SOFTWARE takes home com- 
puter use one practical step further with "Per- 
sonal Tax," a federal income tax program 
designed specifically for home use. 

"Personal Tax" was developed by CPA's 
and computer professionals. It will calculate 
Federal Forms 1040 and 4726, as well as sched- 
ules A, B, G and TC.The program features mul- 
tiple entries for a variety of inputs (e.g. wages, 
dividends and charitable contributions). An in- 
dexed instruction, manual and easy-to-follow 
input forms are included. 

"Personal Tax" computes quickly and 
accurately, then displays or prints the totals 
automatically (using a standard printer inter- 



face). You simply copy the totals onto your IRS 
forms. 

This spring, use your microcomputer to 
simplify your taxes and file with confidence ! 
You won't have to spend half of your refund 
either. The "Personal Tax" program is very 
affordable at only $75. 

O 

"Personal Tax" will run on: Apple ll,TRS-80 
Models I and II, and OSI. Additionally, under 
CP/M , the program will run on Vector Graphics, 
North Star and Cromemco. 

Minimum machine requirements: 
48K and one disk drive. 
Send check or money order, or, write us for 
more information. 



AARDVARK SOFTWARE IIMC 



The M icrocomputer People for Professionals 

783 NORTH WATER STREET MILWAUKEE WISCONSIN 53202 414/289-9988 



(F 



=\ 



A Message 
to our Subscribers 



From time to time we make 
the BYTE subscriber list 
available to other companies 
who wish to send our 
subscribers promotional 
material about their products. 
We take great care to screen 
these companies, choosing 
only those who are reputable, 
and whose products, services, 
or information we feel would 
be of interest to you. Direct 
mail is an efficient medium 
for presenting the latest 
personal computer goods and 
services to our subscribers. 

Many BYTE subscribers 
appreciate this controlled 
use of our mailing list, and 
look forward to finding 



information of interest to 
them in the mail. Used are 
our subscribers' names and 
addresses only (no other 
information we may have is 
ever given). 

While we believe the 
distribution of this 
information is of benefit to 
our subscribers, we firmly 
respect the wishes of any 
subscriber who does not want 
to receive such promotional 
literature. Should you wish to 
restrict the use of your name, 
simply send your request to 
BYTE Publications Inc, Attn: 
Circulation Department, 
70 Main St, Peterborough NH 
D3458. Thank you. 



The WORKSHEET Problem-Solving Language 

Want to play "What-if".' Want to do Real Estate Analysis, 
Family Budgeting, Taxes, Company Cash Flow; want to 
simulate complex and interrelated processes'.' WORKSHEET is 
a powerful language designed for the purpose of writing 
programs to solve these and all other problems that involve a 
row-column "spreadsheet". Even novice programmers are solv- 
ing complicated problems on the first day! 

WORKSHEET is not a hybrid text editor or a toy. It is a 
complete, self-documenting model-building system. List the 
assumptions that went into your budget with the SHOWFIL 
program — even the bosswill understand! 

Change the assumptions, the relationships, or the data, and 
produce a new spreadsheet, neatly captioned, in minutes. 

Model too big to fit on a single page? Format it dynamically — 
one page of 12 (or any number) columns, or 2 pages of 6 
columns, or whatever tells your story best. 

Conditional evaluation of a variable? Reference to variables in 
different rows, several columns back? No problem! 

Sample models include portfolio valuation, real estate evalu- 
ation, iterative solution of a Diophantine equation, family 
budget, product profit based on exponentially damped growth 
of sales. 

Use it for tough, professional jobs — it's the only CP/ M modeling 
system that can handle them! 

Requires 48K CP/ M system and Microsoft Basic or North Star 
Basic running under CP/ M with Matchmaker II. 

WORKSHEET Language disk (5" or 8" CP/ M) . . . . S199.95 

(specify Microsoft Basic version or NSBasic version) 
80-Page Manual only $ 19.95 

The SoHo Group 

1-10 Thompson St., Suite 4-B 

New York, NY 10012 

Note: CI' M. Microsoft, and North Star an: registered trademarks of Digital 
Research. Microsoft, and North Star Computers, respectively. 



Circle 200 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



291 



Circle 202 on inquiry card. 



FULL COLOR 
GRAPHICS 

The original 256-color imaging system with 
high resolution video FRAME GRABBER 

for the S- 100 bus. .. ,-sA 

Capture and digitize a video frame in 1 /60 of a 
second. Select the best resolution foryour ^ 
application, from 256 to 1280 pixels ^tf^L- 
per TV line. Display your digitized ^*f£ > 
or computer processed image ^ ,-^ i-,:!"^ * 
with 256 gray levels or 256 (■>.; 
colors 'on stand 
B&W.NTSCorRG 





480x512 Computer-generated 



I 



Compact two-board 
basic system 

Features: 

• Highest possible quality 480x512x8 digital video 
Image presently available on the market 

• Input capability from TV camera or other sources 

• Variety of synchronization choices 

• 2 selectable video A/D conversion circuits 

• Choice of 1, 2. 4. 8, 16 or 32 bits per pixel 

• 32K-byte Image memoiy on the basic system 

• 32, 64. 128 & 256K byte system capacity 

• LJghtpen Input 

• Photographic trigger control Input 

• Software selectable system parameters 

• Interfaces for TRS-80 and other processors 

• Comprehensive line of accessories, monitors and 
support software 

SEND FOR FREE CATALOG 



= DIGITAL GRAPHIC SYSTEMS 

e== 441 California Ave.,Palo Alto, CA 94306 415/494-6088 




Send S3.00 for 11*14 reprint to: P. 0. Box 801, La Canada, CA 91011 ^Robert Tinney Graphics 1980 



Books Received 



An Age of Innovation, by 
the Editors of Electronics. 
New York: McGraw-Hill 
Publications Company, 
1981; 22 by 29 cm (8V2 by 
HVi inches), 267 pages, 
hardcover, ISBN 
0-07-606688-6, $18.50. 

Computers and Educa- 
tion, James L Poirot. Man- 
chaca TX: Sterling Swift 
Publishing Company, 1980; 
13.5 by 21 cm (5V« by 8V* 
inches), 84 pages, softcover, 
ISBN 0-88408-137-0, $6.95. 

Computer Graphics 
Primer, Mitchell Waite. 
Indianapolis IN: Howard W 
Sams & Company Inc, 1979; 
14 by 22 cm (5Vz by 8V2 
inches), 173 pages, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-672-21650-7, 
$12.95. 

CRT Controller Hand- 
book, Gerry Kane. Berkeley 
CA: Osborne/McGraw-Hill, 
1980; 18 by 23.5 cm (6% by 
9V 8 inches), 206 pages, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-931988-45-4, 
$6.99. 

Electrical and Electronics 
Drawing, fourth edition, 
Charles J Baer and John R 
Ottaway. New York: Gregg 
Division of the McGraw-Hill 
Book Company, 1980; 16.5 
by 24.5 cm (6V2 by 9Vi 
inches), 432 pages, hard- 
cover, ISBN 0-07-003010-3, 
$16.25. 

Machine Independent 
Organic Software Tools 
(Mint), M D Godfrey, H J 
Hermans, D F Hendry, and 
R K Hessenberg. New York: 
Academic Press, 1980; 15.5 
by 23 cm (5 7 / 8 by 9 inches), 
340 pages, hardcover, ISBN 
0-12-286980-X, $28. 

Microcomputer Primer, 
Mitchell Waite and Michael 
Pardee. Indianapolis IN: 
Howard W Sams & Com- 
pany Inc, 1980; 14 by 22 cm 
(5% by 8V1 inches), 367 
pages, softcover, ISBN 



0-672-21653-1, $11.95. 

Microcomputer Systems 
and Apple BASIC, James L 
Poirot. Manchaca TX: Ster- 
ling Swift Publishing Com- 
pany, 1980; 13.5 by 21 cm 
(5Yt by 8V4 inches), 136 
pages, softcover, ISBN 
0-88408-136-2, $9.95. 

Owning Your Home 
Computer, Robert L Perry. 
New York: Everest House 
Publishers, 1980; 18.5 by 
25.5 cm (7V4 by 10 inches), 
200 pages, softcover, ISBN 
0-89696-093-5, $10.95. 

Programming & Inter- 
facing the 6502, With 
Experiments, Marvin L De 
Jong. Indianapolis IN: 
Howard W Sams & Com- 
pany Inc, 1980; 14 by 22 cm 
(5Vi by 8V2 inches), 407 
pages, softcover, ISBN 
0-672-21651-5, $15.95. 

Radar & Radio 
Communications IC Hand- 
book, Plessey Semiconduc- 
tors. Irvine CA: Plessey 
Semiconductors, 1980; 14 by 
22 cm (5V2 by 8V2 inches), 
436 pages, softcover ISBN- 
none, $4. 

Son of Cheap Video, Don 
Lancaster. Indianapolis IN: 
Howard W Sams & Com- 
pany Inc, 1980; 14 by 22 cm 
(5V2 by 8Vi inches), 220 
pages, softcover, ISBN 
0-672-21723-6, $8.95. 

Teams in Information 
Systems Development , 
Philip C Semprevivo. New 
York: Yourdon Press, 1980; 
15.5 by 23 cm (6 by 9 
inches), 126 pages, soft- 
cover, ISBN 0-917072-20-0, 
$16.75. 

Using CP/M, Judi N Fer- 
nandez and Ruth Ashley. 
Somerset NJ: John Wiley & 
Sons Inc, 1980; 17.5 by 25.5 
cm (6 3 A by 10 inches), 236 
pages, softcover, ISBN 
0471-08011-X, $8.95. ■ 



This is a list of books received at BYTE Publications during this 
past month. Although the list is not meant to be exhaustive, its 
purpose is to acquaint BYTE readers with recently published titles 
in computer science and related fields. We regret that we cannot 
review or comment on all the books we receive; instead, this list is 
meant to be a monthly acknowledgment of these books and the 
publishers who sent them. 



292 Februaiy 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 204 on inquiry card. 



To Place An Order 

From Outside Texas 

1-800-231-3680 



MARYMAC INDUSTRIES, INC. 

(Radio /hack) 



Questions & Answers 

& Orders 
Texas 1-713-392-0747 



Store #G-1 89 



AUTHORIZED SALES CENTER 



BRAND NEW IN CARTONS DELIVERED. Marymac Industries owns & operates Radio Shack® dealership in Katy, Texas. Warran- 
ties will be honored by all company owned Radio Shack® stores, & participating franchisees and dealer authorized sales centers. Save 
State Sales Tax. Texas Residents Add Only 5% Sales Tax. Open Mon.-Sat. 10-7. We pay freight and insurance. No extra charge for 
Master Charge & Visa. Call us for reference in or near your city. Ref: Farmers State Bank, Brookshire, Texas. Write or visit us at, 
21969 Katy Fwy, Katy (Houston), Texas 77450. 



WE OFFER ON 
REQUEST 

Federal Express 



Houston Intercontinental Airport 

Delivery 

U.P.S. BLUE 

References from people who have 

bought computers from us probably 
in your city 




In stock TRS-80 Model 
II and III 

No Tax on Out of Texas Shipments! 



ED McMANUS 






Model III 



10% 15% 

OR MORE 
I 



WE ALWAYS 
OFFER 

NO extra charge for Master Charge 
or Visa 

We always pay the freight and 
insurance 

Toll free order number 

Our capability to go to the giant Tandy 
Computer warehouse 5 hours away, 
in Ft. Worth, Texas, to keep you in 
stock. 

JOE McMANUS 



RadM 
/hack 



In Stock 




: 



' o j>*— " ~»*^o(i o'o ooooooooo o'OOo&fioA&o^ ' 

To further improve 
ervice to our customers we 
have installed a toll-free 
^ WATS line in our 
Peterborough, New 
Hampshire office 
If you would 
like to order a 
subscription to' 
BYTE, or if 
you have a 
question relat 
ed to a BYTE 
subscription, 
you are invited 
to call 
(800)258-5485 
between 8:00 AM and 
4:30 PM Eastern Time. 
(Friday 8 AM - Noon). 
Calls from conti 
nental U.S 

only. / o 

joS 9178° 

JLgJULO-g-g-g-g-OJLvl. ■oJCLg-B-tt.g-ft.g-PJLflJ 



BYTE's 

Toll-free 
Subscriber 
W.A.T.S. Line 



(800)258-5485 \* 

We thank you and look 
forward to serving you. 



THE BEST OK BOTH WORLDS-EVEN BETTER 
NORTH STAR BASIC RELEASE 5.2-CP/M 

MORE MEMORY ...BIGGER KII.ES . .. ASCII SAVE AND LOAD 
PROGRAM MERGE . . . COMPATIBLE WITH WORKSHEET 

The "perfect marriage" between C P/ M a nd North Star Basic is 
more blissful than ever! MATCHMAKER II works with the 
newly available North Star Basic release 5.2. This relocatable 
Basic means that you can use all your system's memory! And you 
get files up to 2 Megabytes, two new commands (ASCSAV and 
ALO AD), true merging of program with interlocking or conflict- 
ing line numbers, as well as all the powerful features of the 
industry standard CP/M operating system. 
CP/ M gives you dynamic file allocation, automatic f ilecreation 
and extension, and automatic reuse of deleted files. What a 
powerful combination with the powerful instruction set of the 
outstanding North Star Basic interpreter, the finest micro- 
computer Basic available! 

If you have CP/ M version 2.0 or later, the installation takes only 
35 keystrokes and about 2 minutes! Don't be "DOS-bound" 
anotherday — leapinto the world of the pros! With Matchmaker, 
it's a snap! 

Requires any CP/ M system and the ability to read a standard 
North Star diskette 

The MATCHMAKER II S109.95 

(specify 8" or North Star CP/ M disk) 

Manual only S9.95 

North Star Basic 5.2 S24.95 

(supplied only on standard North Star disk) 

NEW North Star FACTORY CP/ M 2.2 S229.95 

WORKS WITH DD, QUAD, AND HARD DISK 

ALL THREE $330.00 

The SoHo Group 

140 Thompson St., Suite 4-B 

New York, NY 10012 

Nole: CP/ M and North Slararc registered trademarks of Digital Research and North 
Star Computers, respectively. 



Circle 205 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



293 



Clubs and Newsletters 



Pascal/Z Users Group 

The purpose of the 
Pascal/Z Users Group is to 
spread the application and 
use of the Pascal language. 
The group is offering four 
disks of public-domain soft- 
ware applicable to Z80 and 
Pascal/Z systems. The flop- 
py disks cost $10 each; 
membership in the group is 



not required for purchase. 
The programs are in source 
code and in a COM file. 
They include tutorials, 
utilities, and various ap- 
plications. The group is con- 
tinually seeking quality soft- 
ware from programmers. A 
bimonthly newsletter is 
available for $6 per year. 
Additional details can be ob- 
tained by writing the 
Pascal/Z Users Group, 7962 



Center Pky, Sacramento CA 
95823. 



I-SUG 

This group has been 
organized as a co-op to 
enable Exidy Sorcerer users 
to gain access to a mailing 
list and a user-contributed 
library. The library contains 
programs and other tech- 




The DS180 matrix printer provides the total package of 
performance features and reliability required for applica- 
tions such as CRT slave copy, remote terminal networks 
and small to mid-range systems. Not a "hobby-grade" 
printer, the DS180 is a real workhorse designed to 
handle your most demanding printer requirements. And 
pricing on the DS180 is hundreds of dollars below 
competitive units. 

High Speed Printing-Bidirectional, logic-seeking 
printing at 1 80 cps offers throughput of over 2001pm 
on average text. A 9-wire printhead life-tested at 650 
million characters generates a 9x7 matrix with true 
lower case descenders and underlining. 
Nan-volatileFormat Retention— a unique programming 
keypad featuring a non-volatile memory allows the user 
to configure the DS180 for virtually any application. Top 
of form, horizontal and vertical tabs, perforation skip- 
over, communications parameters and many other 
features my be programmed and stored from the key- 
pad. When your system is powered down, the format is 
retained in memory. The DS1 80 even remembers the 



line where you stopped printing. There is no need to 
reset the top of form, margins, baud rate, etc.it's all 
stored in the memory. If you need to reconfigure for 
another application, simply load a new format into 
the memory. 

Communications Versatility — The DS180 offers three 
interfaces including RS232, current loop and 8-bit 
parallel. Baud rates from 1 10-9600may be selected. A 
1 K buffer and X-on, X-ofl handshaking ensure 
optimum throughput. 

Forms Handling Flexibility-Adjustable tractors accom- 
modate forms from 3"-15". The adjustable head can 
print 6-part forms crisply and clearly making the DS180 
ideal for printing multipart invoices andshippingdocu- 
ments. Forms can be fed from the front or the bottom. 
If you would like more information on how the DS180's 
low-cost total printer package can fill your application, 
give us a call at Datasouth. The DS180 is available for 
30-day delivery from our sales/service distributors 
throughout the U.S. 



data©@i 

computer corporation 



4740Dwighl Evans Road • Charlotte, North Carolina 28210 • 704/523-8500 



nical information for the 
Sorcerer. I-SUG charges 
neither fees nor membership 
dues. Clubs and individual 
Sorcerer users are encour- 
aged to use 1-SUG to con- 
tact other clubs and attract 
new members. For complete 
details, send a self- 
addressed, stamped envelope 
to I-SUG, POB 1542, St 
Catharines, Ontario, L2R 
7J9, Canada. 



Pocket 

Computer 

Newsletter 

The Pocket Computer 
Newsletter reports on the 
latest developments concern- 
ing pocket and hand-held 
computers. Published ten 
times a year, the newsletter 
also features programming 
tips, operating time-savers, 
tutorial articles, notes on 
customizing units, program- 
ming shortcuts, listings of 
programs, technical informa- 
tion, application forums, 
and product reviews. The 
subscription price is $20 in 
the US, $24 in Canada, and 
$30 elsewhere. For informa- 
tion, contact The Pocket 
Computer Newsletter, POB 
232, Seymour CT 06483. 



Monroevllle 
Apple Users Club 

This club has just recently 
formed. If you would like 
more information, write to 
the Monroeville Apple Users 
Club, attn: Dr G J Harloff, 
579 Carnival Dr, Pittsburgh 
PA 15239. 



The Cursor Group 

The Cursor Group is a 
manufacturer-supported user 
group for the Bally Arcade 
that supports over forty af- 
filiated local users groups. 
The Bally Arcade employs 
an enhanced version of Palo 
Alto Tiny BASIC, which in- 
cludes analog-to-digital con- 



294 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 206 on inquiry card. 




(Let your computer play psychiatrist!) 

ANALIZA is a program which simulates a 
conversation with a psychiatrist. You are the 
patient, the computer becomes the doctor. 

ANALIZA is based on the famous "Eliza" 
program from MIT some years back, but has 
been greatly enhanced. It provides both enter- 
tainment as well as an interesting example of 
Artificial Intelligence. Below is a sample: 

Patient: I have feelings of paranoia 

Computer: Does it please you to have 
feelings of paranoia? 

Patient: No it bothers me 

Computer: Then why have feelings of 
paranoia? 

ANALIZA is a match for anyone. 

Requires: 48K CP/M, CBASIC2 
Cost: $35.00 

CP/M Formals: 8" soft sectored, 5" Northstar, 5" Micropo- 
lis Mod II, Vector MZ, Superbrain DD/QD 
_^^^^ All Orders and General Information: 

SUPERSOFT ASSOCIATES 

P.O. BOX 1628 

CHAMPAIGN, IL 61820 

(217) 359-2112 

Technical Hot Line: (217) 359-2691 

(answered only when technician Is available) 



VISA 



# 



SuperSoft 

First in Software Technology 



CP/M REGISTERED TRADEMARK DIGITAL RESEARCH 













Circle 209 or 


inquiry card. 


MICROPROCESSOR SUPPORT I.C.'S 


WE GUARANTEE FACTORY PRIME PARTS 


2708 


1KX8 


EPROM 


3 Supply 


450 ns 


$5.50 


2716 


2KX8 


EPROM 


3 Supply 


450 ns 


$11.00 


2716 


2KX8 


EPROM 


1 Supply 


450 ns 


$11.00 


2732 


4KX8 


EPROM 


1 Supply 


450 ns 


$35.00 


4116 


16KX1 


DYNAMIC 


3 Supply 


200 ns 


8/$36.00 










32/$136.00 


4116 


16KX1 


DYNAMIC 


3 Supply 


300 ns 


8/$32.00 










32/$120.00 


4164 


64KX1 


DYNAMIC 


1 Supply 


250 ns 


$130.00 


4118 


1KX8 


STATIC 


250ns 


EXTRA 


SPECIAL 
$16.00 


2114 


1KX4 


STATIC 


250 ns 


$4.25 


8/$32.00 


2114L 


1KX4 


STATIC 


250ns 


$4.50 


8/$34.00 


3242 


$11.00 




8224 


$ 2.95 


8255 


$ 6.50 


8155 


17.50 




8226 


3.95 


8259 


17.95 


8185 


29.95 




8228 


5.50 


8275 


32.95 


8202 


45.00 




8238 


5.50 


8279 


13.95 


8205 


3.95 




8243 


6.00 


8282 


6.70 


8212 


2.75 




8250 


15.95 


8283 


6.70 


8214 


5.25 




8251 


6.95 


8284 


5.85 


8216 


2.75 




8253 


12.95 


8755 


49.95 


TO ORDER: Send 
check , money order or 
charge card C.O.D. 
Please include $3.00 
shipping. For C.O.D. 
allow for shipping and 
$2.00 C.O.D. fee. 


HANLE Y ENGINEERING 

P.O.BOX 21432 
SEATTLE, WA 98111 
(206) 633-3404 


Send for full catalog including 


74XX.74LSXX and CMOS I.C's. 



ECTJjfc 



Building Blocks for 
Microcomputer Systems, 
Dedicated Controllers 
and Test Equipment. 




R 2 l/0 

S-100 ROM, 

RAM & I/O 

BOARD 



ECTs R 2 l/0 is an S-100 Bus I/O Board with 3 Serial 
I/O Ports (UART's), 1 Parallel I/O Port, 4 Status Ports, 
2K of ROM with the 8080 Apple Monitor Program and 
2K of Static RAM. 

$295.00 




RM-10 
S-100 

RACK MOUNT 
CARD CAGE 



ECT's RM-10 is a rack mount 10 slot Card Cage with 
Power Supply, consisting of an ECT-100 rack mount 
Card Cage (19"W x 12.25TI x 8"D), the MB-10 Mother 
Board (with ground plane and termination) all 10 
connectors and guides and the PS-15A Power Supply 
(15A @ 8V, 1.5A @ ± 16V). 



$295.00 



Specializing in Quality Microcomputer Hardware 

Industrial • Educational • Small Business • Personal 

Card Cages, Power Supplies, Mainframes, CPU's, Memory, I/O, OEM Variations 



ELECTRONIC CONTROL TECHNOLOGY ( 2od ese-soso 

763 Ramsey Ave., Hillside, NJ 07205 



Circle 207 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



295 



Clubs and Newsletters 



version, a three-voice music 
synthesizer, 156 by 128 
resolution with up to 256 
colors, and user-accessible 
graphics. Commands and 
routines not included in the 
documentation are published 
in the group's newsletter, 
The Cursor. Other manuals 
are being published. Contact 
The Cursor Group, POB 
266, North Hollywood CA 
91603. 



SD User Exchange 

SD User Exchange is a 
dealer group designed to 
meet the needs of the SD 
dealer. The group's goal is 
to provide an avenue for the 
exchange of software pro- 
grams, technical knowledge, 
marketing tools, and ideas 
among SD dealers. This 
group was recently formed, 
so if you would like to 
become a part of this grow- 
ing pool of SD resources, 
contact SD Systems, 3401 W 
Kingsley Rd, Garland TX 
75041, or call Bob Sherman, 



Director of Marketing, at 
(214) 271-4667. 



Newsletter for 
Home 
Computer Users 

Home Computers is a 
brand-new newsletter for 
hobbyists, investors, and the 
small-business person. The 
publication is written for 
home computer users who 
use their machines for taking 
inventory of collections or 
products, investment 
analysis, bookkeeping, and 
educational and recreational 
game playing. Home Com- 
puters contains equipment 
reviews, programming 
methods, a forum for input 
standards, coding for 
specific functions, and a 
primer for beginning pro- 
grammers. Subscription in- 
formation can be obtained 
by sending a self-addressed, 
stamped envelope to Home 
Computers, POB 616, 
Silverton OR 97381. 



SuperLetterl 



SuperLetter is for Super- 
Brain users. Subscribers will 
be able to keep pace with 
the latest technical news, 
operating tips, accessory 
ideas, and software designs 
for Intertec's machine. 
Regular monthly features in- 
clude a technical corner, a 
question-and-answer forum, 
the latest-breaking news 
from the factory, guest in- 
terviews, and the SuperClas- 
sifieds. SuperLetter inquiries 
can be addressed to Abrams 
Creative Services, 369 S 
Crescent Dr, Beverly Hills 
CA 90212, (213) 277-1588. 



PET Users Group 

At 7:30 PM on the second 
Tuesday of the month, you 
can find the NW PET Users 
Group meeting in the 
University of Washington's 
Academic Computer Center, 
3737 Brooklyn, in Seattle, 
Washington. This group is 



dedicated to the use of 
PET/CBM microcomputers. 
The NW PET Users Group 
publishes a newsletter on a 
semiregular basis and it oc- 
casionally charges member- 
ship dues. Contact Richard 
Ball, 2565 Dexter N § 203, 
Seattle WA 98109, (206) 
284-9417, for complete in- 
formation. 

Club In Venezuela 

Civil Engineering students 
and professors at the 
University of Carabobo, 
Valencia, Venezuela, have 
formed a computer club. 
The Club de Computation 
Lampas de Carabobo meets 
on the first and second 
Tuesdays of each month. 
The primary interest is in 
the application of microcom- 
puters to civil engineering 
practice and teaching, in- 
cluding basic sciences as well 
as administrative and 
technical aspects. Write to 
the club at Apartado 716, 
Valencia, Venezuela, 
2001 A. ■ 



WHY BUY 3 COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

When You Can Share Time On 1 ? 

DIGIAC 



III II II Mill 



MULTIPLE APPLICATION PROCESSING SYSTEMS 



CT-80 



i Workstation System 




DIGIAC MAPS® SYSTEM FEATURES 



» Three business programs can run concurrently - that's three times the 

overall system productivity! 
> Time share word processing, accounting, order processing, inventory, 

forms processing, billing and more! 
» Three workstations can share data base - that means preparations can 

be done by several operators concurrently! 
» All workstations can share common peripherals. 

> Uses DIGIAC AMPS - 80 operating -system. (Digital Research MP/M) 

> High level language procesors including, Fortran -Basic- Pascal- Cobol. 
• Complete turn-key system for ease of operation and learning. 



For Additional Information 
Contact: 

MAPS 

Commercial Products 
Division Of: 

DIGIAC CORPORATION 

1 75 Engineers Road 

Smithtown, New York 

11787 

Phone (516) 273-8600 




296 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 210 on inquiry card. 



Circle 212 on inquiry card. 



Save on Calculators 



Olympic Sales is an Hi' franchisee) dealer. Call us for the best deal. 



HP-41C Scientific 


189.95 


Card Reader for 41C 


169.95 


Prinler for HP-41C 


289.95 


Optical WAND for 41C 


109.95 


Memory Module for 41C 


2/95 


HP-34C Scientific 


119.95 


HP-38C Business 


119.95 


HP-33C Scienlilic 


7895 


HP-37E Bus. Prog 


63.95 


HP-32E Any. Scientific 


49.95 


HP-67 Scientific prog 


299.95 



HEWLETT 
PACKARD 



HP-85 COMPUTER 



HP-97 Scieni prog priming 



579.95 




We have (he lowest prices on 
HP in America and else- 
where. Do not waste money 
— buy from us and save. 
HP-85---Graphic Plotters- 
Letter quality printers— 16K 
Memory modules — Software, 
etc. (coming soon: 8 models 
or Disk Drives for HP-85) 
HP-85 ROM. 



"C" stands for continuous memory. 
We carry an enormous slock of HP 
goods and HP accessories a tall 
times. 

Immediate delivery on all HP products in most Of the cases. 
One year guarantee by HP on all calcs, 90 days on computers. All units complete. 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS 



TI-55 
TWO 
TI-30 
Tl 35 
TI-59 
TI-58C 
Tl 57 
Prinler 
for 59/58C 



35 95 
35.95 
1795 
22.95 
199 95 
8995 
49.95 

149.95 



Tl 58/59 Libraries 

TI-5040 printer 

TI-5015 prinler 

TI-5100 

TI-5213 comrcal prntr Callus 

TI-5215 comrcalprntr Callus 

TI-5217 comrcal prntr Callus 

TI-5219 comrcal prntr Callus 



32.95 
79.95 
62.95 
39.95 



Speak and Spell 
Speak and Read 

Speak and Math 
Language Tutor 
Language Teacher 
Bus. Analyst ll 
Business Card 
Investment Analyst 48.95 
NewTI 1040A 16.95 



5895 
74.95 
67.95 
129.95 
79.95 
43 95 
39.95 




Computers at unbeatable prices 



Apple II 

personal compukr 



APPLE II Computer <* 

Peripherals, accessories, software 

for immediate delivery and the 

lowest prices. Call us. We carry a 

huge inventory of Apple Products 

16K-32K-4SK. Disk Drives. Monitors, 

Graphic Tablets, Pascal, Fortran, 

DOS. 3.3 Silentype printers and on 

and on. 

We are now taking orders for Apple Id Systems. First come 

first served. Call us about Apple Ml. 



TEXAS INSTRUMENTS Computer 
99/4 Computer console only 
12" Color Monitor 



* 



469.95 
389.95 




ATARI 800 16K Computer 

Martel Intellivsn TV game 2609 

Mattel Race Hrse Anlysr Comput 

Sony Walkmn/Sndbout Sleroplyei 

Sony TCS 300 Walkmn records/plays 189.95 

Craig transllor doubl capac M10DSE 1 1 9.95 

BSR X 10 Timer 59.95-Contrllr comnd 33.95 



759.95 
229.95 
99.95 
159.95 



Sharp • S.C.M. • Royal • Victor • Canon • Casio • Pearlcorder • Sony • RCA and more. 



] LA Add S4.95rorsr.ippinghandr>eldcalC5 in USA. CA residents add 6% sales tax. 
idvertisedpnceifihe competition hasthe goods on hand. Goods subject! a availability, 
st our 130 pagecatalogin writing. Call Mondaylhru Saturday. 7AM toEFM. f" 

Outside CA. loll free 800-421-8045 ' 



Olympic sales comPAny inc. 

■ CA90004 
(2131 381-3911 or (213) 331-1202 - Telex 67-3477 



Circle 213 on inquiry card. 



At last— the 

Typewriter Interface! 





Turn your electric typewriter into a low cost, high 
quality hard copy printer. 1 Year Warranty 

Dynatyper— the patented" RDI— I/O Pak is fast becoming the industry 
standard for typewriter output. Why? Because: 

1. It takes 2 minutes to initially install and 5 seconds to remove or 
replace. 

2. You do no! have to modify your typewriter. All factory warranties 
and maintenance agreements on your typewriter will be honored. 

3. You can use it with all powered carriage return typewriters that 
have U.S. keyboard. Our Model I works with all non Selectrics and 
our Model II works with Selectrics. Conversion between models 
takes 2 minutes and the kit (26 plungers) is available for a nominal 
charge. 

4. You don't have to lug around a bulky printer when you travel. If 
there is a typewriter at your destination, you can install the light 
(3 lbs.) I/O Pak in just 2 minutes. 

5. Same interface for TRS-80, Apple and GPIB. Centronics and Pet 
compatible interfaces are available in third quarter 1980. Electric 
pencil available. 

6. Delivery: Stock to two weeks. Price: $499. for the complete system, 
FOB Rochester, Domestic. 

Over 1000 in operation today. VISA and MasterCard accepted. 
Call Ken Yanicky at 716-244-7804, or write: "Dept. B". 



3000 Winton Road South, Rochester, New York 14623 incorporated 



From Ballet on Broadway 

to Billiards m Dallas... 

. . . people are finding unique ways to use the Powerful SciTronics REMOTE CONTROLLER 

Whether it's the intricate lighting for a Broadway Ballet or the sim- 
ple remote lighting of pool tables in a Dallas billiards hall, people 
are finding out SciTronics Remote Controller can meet their needs. 



Here's Why: 

Controls 256 BSR remote switches— not just 16 
Hardware driven— requires minimum software 
No ultrasonic link— prevents erratic operation 
No BSR command module necessary 

Real Time Clock gives Remote Controller an added dimension! 

Real Time Clocks are now available to make your remote controller even more 
powerful. The RTC feature allows for energy consumption scheduling, event 
scheduling and much more. Your imagination is your only limitation when it comes 
to the ways which this RC/RTC combination can be used. 

Real Time Clocks feature: 

Lithium battery back-up 

Crystal controlled accuracy (.002%) 

Clock generates interrupts (seconds, minutes, hours) for foreground/background operation 

Complete software in BASIC to Set and Read clock 




$159. 
$159. 
$184. 



etc) 



$269. 
$129. 



S-100 CONTROLLER BOARD 
S-100 REAL TIME CLOCK BOARD 
ENCASED CONTROLLER 

(TRS-80, Apple II etc.) 
ENCASED CONTROLLER & REAL 

TIME CLOCK (TRS-80, Apple 
APPLE II CLOCK BOARD 

SciTronics Inc. 

523 S. Clewell St., P.O. Box 5344 

Bethlehem, PA 18015 

(215) 868-7220 
Please list system with which you plan to use 
peripheral. Master Charge and Visa accepted. 
PA residents add sales tax. COD's accepted. 



Send check 
or money 
order to: 



Circle 211 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



297 



Event Queue 



February 1981 



February-May 

Courses from ICS, various 
cities throughout the US. 
ICS (Integrated Computer 
Systems) is presenting a 
series of intensive 3- and 
4-day courses on computer- 
ized robots; interactive com- 
puter graphics; program- 
ming in Ada; structured 
design and programming; 
microprocessor software, 
hardware, and interfacing; 
computer network design 
and protocols; and many 
other topics. Contact ICS, 
3304 Pico Blvd, POB 5339, 
Santa Monica CA 90405, 
(800) 421-8166; in California 
(800) 352-8251. 



February-May 

Greater Boston Area ACM 
Lectures, the Mitre Corpora- 
tion, Bldg J, Middlesex 



Tpke, Burlington MA. The 
Greater Boston Area Chap- 
ter of the ACM (Association 
for Computing Machinery) 
is sponsoring a series of lec- 
tures ranging from "Cryp- 
tography and Computer 
Security" and "Software 
Tools" to "The Future of 
Data Base Systems" and 
"Computer Simulation." For 
a schedule of times and lec- 
ture fees, contact the 
Greater Boston Chapter of 
the ACM, POB 465, Lex- 
ington MA 02173. 



February-] line 

The Hartford Graduate 
Center, Winter — Spring 
Courses, The Hartford 
Graduate Center, 275 Wind- 
sor St, Hartford CT 06120. 
A listing of courses from the 
Hartford Graduate Center is 
available by calling (203) 
549-3600, ext 252, or by 
writing Don Florek at the 



center. The courses offered 
cover hardware and soft- 
ware topics, along with 
management and theory 
studies. 



February 9-10 

Applying Single-Chip 
Microcomputers, Hyatt 
Regency Cambridge, Cam- 
bridge MA. This seminar is 
designed to help anyone 
with a basic working 
knowledge of computer 
hardware. It is being spon- 
sored by Electronics . The 
fee is $445. Contact Barbara 
Bancroft, c/o McGraw-Hill 
Seminar Center, 305 
Madison Ave, Rm 3112, 
New York NY 10017, (212) 
687-0243. 

February 9-13 

Reliability Engineering, 
Testing and Maintainability 
Engineering, University of 
California, Los Angeles CA. 



Introducing 

THE 

eericnmarK 



WORD 

PROCESSING 

SYSTEM 



THE BENCHMARK software system sets new standards in word processing. First, it 
can be delivered to run on the CP/M R or the North Star DOS. so there may be no need 
to buy a special operating system. Second, it has all the features of systems costing 
thousands of dollars more. Third, the price is as low as, or lower than, most word 
processing systems. 

Anyone can learn to run and use THE BENCHMARK in one day of s'elf training. 
Completely self-prompting in English. THE BENCHMARK is a full capability word 
processor, has been thoroughly tested in an office environment and proved to meet the 
needs of the most sophisticated user. 



• Multi-operating system 

• Changes terminal drivers 

• Customized to utilize all the 
features of terminal & printer 



ONLY 



$499 



• Overtype - erases, corrects 

• Variable, electronic decimal tab 

• Screen menus simplify operation 

• Block move and get 

plus tax 
where applicable 



THE BENCHMARK is distributed by R&B Computer Systems. Dealer inquiries are 
invited. 

Dp Computer 



Systems 



1954 E. University 
1-800-528-7385 



Tempe, Arizona 85281 
AZ-B02-968-7101 



THE BENCHMARK is a trademark of Metasoft Corporation 
CP/ M is a registered trademark of Digital Research 



This course is geared for 
engineers specializing in 
reliability, product assur- 
ance, logistics, quality 
assurance, and product 
design, and is designed for 
those who design and 
predict the reliability of 
components, equipment, 
and systems. The course fee 
is $750. Contact Continuing 
Education in Engineering 
and Mathematics, UCLA Ex- 
tension, POB 24901, Los 
Angeles CA 90024, (213) 
825-1047. 

February 14-16 

International Conference on 
Microcomputer Applications 
to Industrial Controls, 

Jadavpur University, Calcut- 
ta, India. Papers will be 
presented on the applica- 
tions of microcomputers to 
industrial controls in the 
areas of general systems. 
Contact Dr Sushil Dasgupta, 
Professor and Head, Elec- 
trical Engineering Depart- 
ment, Jadavpur University, 
40B, Southern Ave, 
Calcutta-700029, India. 

February 17-18 

Integrating Word Processing 
and Electronic Data Process- 
ing: Technology, Architec- 
ture, Planning, The Harvard 
Club, New York NY. The 
topics of this seminar will be 
the study of word process- 
ing today and its future, the 
evaluation and selection of 
systems, electronic mail and 
communications, and the 
automated office. For fur- 
ther details, contact the 
seminar coordinators at the 
Center for Management 
Research, 850 Boylston St, 
Chestnut Hill MA 02167, 
attn: Ms Karen Smolens, 
(617) 738-5020. 

February 18-20 

Business- and Personal- 
Computer Sales and Exposi- 
tion and the Houston 
Business Show, Houston 
Civic Center, Capitol Ave 
and Bagby St, Houston TX. 
Data-processing managers, 
systems analysts, program- 
mers, educators, hobbyists, 



298 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 214 on inquiry card. 



Circle 216 on Inquiry card. 



Circle 217 on inquiry card. 



TOLL FREE ORDERING 





These Fine 
Products and More 



NORTHSTAR 

HRZ 1-32K-D $1990 

HRZ2-32KD 2295 

HRZ 2-32KQ 2690 

HARD DISC SYSTEM 3935 

DYNABYTE 

DB8/148K $2395 

DB 8/2 48K 3900 

DB 8/4 3030 

32M PHOENIX 11800 

TERMINALS 

TELEVIDE0 912C 698 

TELEVIDEO920C 748 

SOROClQ-120 695 

PRINTERS 

NEC 5510 (w TRACTORS) . . 2575 

N EC 5520 (w TRACTORS) . . 2900 

TI-820 1640 

TI-810 1495 

ANADEX DP-9500 1345 

CENTRONICS 737 850 

EPSON TX80 CALL 



MORROW 

DISCUS 2D 2 DRIVE 1550 

DISCUS 2 + 2 1 DRIVE 1265 

DISCUS M26 HARD DISC. . 3990 
SOLID STATE MUSIC KITAsm 

CB2Z80CPU 200 265 

VB1C VIDEO 140 190 

SB1 SYNTHESIZER . . . 195 270 

MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS 
MEMORY 

DM3200 32K4MHZ 480 

DM6400 64K 4MHz 595 

DMB6400 64K 4MHz 

BNKSEL 745 

SOFTWARE-DISCS 

NORTHSTAR SOFTWARE .CALL 

WORDSTAR 350 

DATASTAR 250 

MAGIC WAND 290 

GRAHAM-DORIAN CALL 

STRUCTURED SYSTEMS . .CALL 

5" DISCS 27 

8" DISCS 35 



WE WILL TRY TO BEAT ANY ADVERTISED PRICE 

Automated Equipment Inc. 

18430 Ward 
Fountain Valley, CA 92708 

(714)963-1414 (800)854-7635 




10& A BASIC A+ 

to* * FROM THE AUTHORS OF ATARI® BASIC 



€9 






BASIC A+ for the ATARI 800® 
BASIC A+ will rate an A+ from any Atari user! Upward 
compatible with Atari Basic, it adds statements and 
leatures that enhance the Atari 800's real power, flexi- 
bility, and ease of use: Superior I/O features for busi- 
ness and other applications. Additional file manipula- 
tion commands. Significant help in program develop- 
ment and debug. Structured programming aids. And 
MORE! A partial list of the enhancements of BASIC A+ 
includes: 

PRINT USING (for business, sophisticated) 

RPUT/RGET (record I/O) SET TAB 

BPUT/BGET (binary I/O) INPUT"..." OIR 

ERASE PROTECT RENAME TRACE 

WHILE... ENOWHILE IF...ELSE...ENOIF 

MEANINGFUL ERROR MESSAGES 

BASIC A+ requires a disk and 32K bytes of RAM. Since 

no cartridge is used, BASIC A+ will take advantage of 

all the RAM (48K bytes) in a maximum Atari 800 system 

(recommended). 

CP/A® for the ATARI 800 

Simple. Flexible. Powerful. Compatible. A command 
driven DOS Control Program that allows user-written 
commands, ease of interface, and total compatibility 
with all devices and features of the Atari DOS and file 
system. Using less room than a menu-driven DOS, 
CP/A allows utilities to be dynamically accessed from 
disk as needed. 



Powerful Utilities INCLUDED with CP/A'" 

All the following utilities are included in the price of 
CP/A, but you can easily add your own for even more 
flexibility and power. 

EDITOR/ASSEMBLER/ DEBUG 
EASMO is a simple but complete all-in-one assembly 
language development package for the 6502 micro- 
processor. The editorprovides global functions such as 
FIND and REPLACE (with optional query!) and can be 
used to edit BASIC A+ programs. The assembler sup- 
ports standard 6502 mnemonics; can include multiple 
files in a single assembly; outputs the listing to printer, 
screen, or disk; produces readable error messages and 
a flagged symbol table; places the object code in mem- 
ory or to a disk file. The object code produced is 
compatible with Atari DOS or Apple DOS (BLOAD) as 
appropriate. The debug capabilities include STEP, 
TRACE, mini-assembler, disassembler, and more. 

DUPDSK and FORMAT 

Allows creation of master disks, slave disks, and 
sector-by-sector copies of any CP/A disk. 

COPY 

Single file copy utility. Destination can be disk, screen, 
printer, or any device. 

PARTIAL SOURCE CODE 

For system equates and some system drivers. Cus- 
tomize your system. 



BASIC A+ for the APPLE II® 

All the features* of our Atari BASIC A+! Includes the 
advanced commands and programming aids that make 
Atari Basic flexible, easy-to-use, and powerful: 
DECIMALARITHMETIC(10digitstothe penny) 
SYNTAX CHECK ON PROGRAM ENTRY 
LONG VARIABLE NAMES (all chars, used) 
STRINGS UP TO 32K BYTES IN LENGTH 
SEMI-COMPILED CODE (no penalty for those 
long names) 
BASIC A+ requires and takes advantage of all the fea- 
tures and power of CP/A. 

'Some Atari hardware related leatures cannot be supported on 
the Apple II. 

CP/A^ for the APPLE II® 
A DOS with a DOCUMENTED assembly language inter- 
face! Simple. Elegant. Upward compatible with the file 
systems of Apple's DOS 3.2 and 3.3 but with flexibility 
not available until now. Add your own commands. Add 
your own device drivers. Easy FAST random access 
from assembly language or BASIC A+. Requires 48K 
RAM and one disk drive. 

ORDER TODAY! 

All software is licensed for single system use only. 
PLEASE SEE YOUR DEALER FIRST. If he cannot supply 
you, ordering info is below. DEALER AND DIS- 
TRIBUTOR INQUIRIES INVITED. 



CP/A and BASIC A+ are trademarks of Shepardson 

Microsystems. Inc. APPLE and APPLE II are 
registeredtrademarks of Apple Computer, Inc. ATARI 
and ATARI 800 are registered trademarks of Atari. Inc. 



Shepardson Microsystems, Inc. 

20395 Paciflca Dr., Suite 108 

Cupertino, CA 95014 

(408) 257-9900 




CP/A 


Atari 
.... S 80 


Apple 

S 80 


BASIC A+ 

CP/A & BASIC A+ 


S 80 
S150 


N/A 
S150 


Add $5 per package shipping 


in U.S. 6% tax 


in CA. 




BYTE February 


1981 



Circle 218 on Inquiry card. 



299 



Event Queue 



and user's groups will find 
this exposition useful. The 
business show is primarily 
designed for purchasing and 
office managers, executives, 
business owners, attorneys, 
accountants, and physicians. 
For details, contact Produx 
2000 Inc, POB 2000, Bala- 
Cynwyd PA 19004, (215) 
457-2300. 

February 23-26 

Computer Science Con- , 
ference, Stouffer's Riverfront 
Towers Hotel, St Louis MO. 
The conference is sponsored 
by the ACM (Association 
for Computing Machinery). 
The Ninth Annual Com- 
puter Science Employment 
Register will be conducted. 
This register aids in match- 
ing computer scientists and 
data-processing specialists 
with employer oppor- 
tunities. For information, 
contact Orrin E Taulbee, 
ACM Computer Science 
Employment Register, 
Department of Computer 
Science, University of Pitts- 



burgh, Pittsburgh PA 15260, 
(412) 624-6475. 

February 24-25 

The Ninth Annual Midwest 
Digital Equipment Exhibit 
and Seminar, Thunderbird 
Motel, Minneapolis MN. 
More than sixty manufac- 
turers of computer ter- 
minals, data-communication 
equipment, peripherals, and 
test instruments will be 
displaying their products. 
Over 1500 users and 
manufacturers are expected 
to attend. Registration at the 
entrance area is required, 
but there is no charge to at- 
tend exhibits or seminars. 
Contact Kim Shobe, c/o 
Loonam Associates Inc, 7720 
Bush Lake Rd, Minneapolis 
MN 55435, (612) 831-1616. 

February 26-27 

Louisiana Computer Exposi- 
tion, University of 
Southwestern Louisiana, 
Lafayette LA. Papers will be 
read on operating systems, 
data-base management and 
support, distributed com- 



puters systems, and related 
topics. Contact William R 
Edwards, c/o the Computer 
Science Department, Univer- 
sity of Southwestern Loui- 
siana, POB 44330, Lafayette 
LA 70504, (318) 264-6284. 



March 1981 



March-November 

Advanced Data Processing 
Workshops, Deltak Inc, 
various cities throughout the 
US and Canada. These 
5-day workshops are aimed 
at data-processing training 
managers responsible for the 
management and administra- 
tion of data-processing train- 
ing and involved in plan- 
ning, monitoring, 
evaluating, and reporting to 
upper management on the 
status of the training. For a 
schedule of dates and loca- 
tions, contact Deltak Inc, 
1220 Kensington Rd, Oak 
Brook IL 60521, (312) 
920-0700. 



March 8-11 

TI-MIX 1981, Marriott 
Hotel, New Orleans LA. 
This is a conference for 
Texas Instruments equip- 
ment users. Thirty-six ses- 
sions consisting of individual 
presentations, panel discus- 
sions, and workshops are 
planned. Two exhibit rooms 
featuring the latest computer 
equipment from Texas In- 
struments will be open. 
Contact TI-MIX, M/S 2200, 
POB 2909, Austin TX 
78769, (512) 250-7151. 

March 11-13 

Business- and Personal- 
Computer Sales and Exposi- 
tion and New York Business 
Show, Madison Square 
Garden, New York NY. See 
February 18-20 for details. 

March 17-20 

The Fourteenth Annual 
Simulation Symposium, 

Tampa FL. Papers describing 
digital discrete simulation 
and other techniques will be 
read. This symposium is a 



XT4T TNFTWR CI OPl^ PT T TQ™ PUT TIME AND REMOTE 

± n. \*J L^i I_-H^IY\^l>W\^IV L 1> ^O CONTROL IN YOUR APPLE II 

The THUNDERCLOCK PLUS is two peripheral systems on one card for your APPLE II OR II PLUS. An accurate, reliable, 
real-time clock/calendar and an interface for the popular BSR X-10 Home Control System. 

The THUNDERCLOCK clock/calendar makes accurate time and date available to your programs: month, date, day-of-week, 

hour, minute, and second, in any of four software selectable formats. On-board batteries keep your THUNDERCLOCK 

running when your APPLE II is turned off - for up to four years before battery replacement. 

On-card IK firmware makes reading or setting the time easy from APPLESOFT or INTEGER ^sUf^' 

BASIC, PASCAL, or assembly language programs. And it provides software selectable 

interrupts at any of three rates: 64, 256, or 2048 interrupts/second. 

THE PLUS |H^ a 

Add THUNDER WARE'S X-10 ULTRASONIC INTERFACE OPTION to your 

THUNDERCLOCK and your programs can send all 22 BSR X-10 commands so you can 

remotely control lights and appliances. A full 128 dim/bright levels. And a powerful disk 

software package! The THUNDER WARE SCHEDULER software lets you create schedules to 

control lights, appliances, security systems, or almost any other electrical device. The software 

includes: SCUTIL- the SCHEDULER utility that lets you make or change a schedule, and SCHED- executes your schedules in 

real-time using the THUNDERCLOCK. SCHED runs in the 'background' so you can run other programs in the 'foreground'. 

The THUNDERCLOCK PLUS is a SYSTEM for your APPLE II. Supported by intelligent, easy to use firmware, a powerful 

software package, and good documentation! 

Availai-ilp rrirmiori vmir rlpaW Suggested retail prices: 

Available mrougn your dealer. thunderclock plus $139 „ . , . , 

,-,.,,,, j , iL « _ , It your dealer doesn t carry the 

',"%: E383E3WS3i^& CIoc , k/calendar card w,th bat,er,es and thunderclock plus: 

I user s manual ORDER TOLL FREE (V1SA/MC) CALL: 

X-10 INTERFACE OPTION $49 800 -227-6204 EXT 307 (Outside California) 

1|»»^^»^^^S^ BSR X - 10 Ultrasonic interface, disk with 800 -632-2131 EXT 307 (California Only) 
SCHEDULER SOFrW ARE &. demos, and 
WS^: j user's manual 

I PASCAL SOFrWARE $29 OR WRITE TO: 

I Disk with PASCAL interface for clock and 

M§T X-10 interface, and user's guide THUNDER WARE INCORPORATED 

bsr x-io i. » trademark of bsr (USA) ltd. MANUALS ONLY, each $5 P.O. Box 13322, Oakland, C A 94661 

APPLE 11 is a trademark of APPLE COMPUTER, INC California residents add 6% sales tax 





300 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 215 on inquiry card. 



Circle 220 on inquiry card. 



Circle 221 on inquiry card. 



Selectric® Interface System 



.ASILY interfaced to any IBM Selectric I, 
II, or III. 

^5TOP spinning your wheels. Letter qual- 
ity at an affordable price. 

V^ONNECTS via Parallel or RS-232, ac- 
commodates varied handshaking. 

'NLY $575 to $599. Dealer inquiries in- 
vited. 




ECHO SERIES™ speech synthesizers 

COMPUTERS ARE SPEAKING OUT! 

Now you can add intelligible speech to your computer 
without using vast amounts of memory! The ECHO ] [™ 
speech synthesizer for the Apple* is the first of a 
series of synthesizers based on the same technology 
that made the Speak & Spell** a success. 

The initial operating system allows the creation of 
your own vocabulary with phonemes (word sounds) 
while using very little RAM memory (approx. 800 bytes 
+ 20 bytes/word). Enhanced operating systems and 
vocabulary ROMs will be offered as they become 
available. 

The ECHO ][™ comes complete with speaker, instruc- 
tion manual, and a disk containing a speech editor, 
sample programs, and a sample vocabulary. Sug- I 
gested list price is $225. 



See your dealer or contact: 




liiiiiniiniiimnn 



ISECj 



STREET ELECTRONICS 
CORPORATION 



3152 E. La Palma Ave., Suite C 
Anaheim, CA 92806 (714)632-9950 



*Trademark of Apple Computer ** Trademark of Texas Instruments 

Circle 219 on inquiry card. * 



Event Queue 



forum for the exchange of 
ideas and techniques in com- 
puter simulation. Contact 
Annual Simulation Sym- 
posium, POB 22621, Tampa 
FL 33622. 

March 20 

Digital Computer Associa- 
tion Annual Meeting, 
Pacifica Hotel, 6161 Cen- 
tinela Blvd, Culver City CA. 
Cocktails, dinner, and the 
annual meeting are the 
features of this gathering. 
For more information, con- 
tact Mary Rich, 731 
Bayonne St, EI Segundo CA 
90245. 



March 23-25 

Office Automation Con- 
ference, Albert Thomas 
Convention Center, 
Houston TX. This con- 
ference will present seminars 
on concepts and methods 
behind the latest office 
technologies and an exhibi- 
tion of office equipment. 
Contact Office Automation 
Conference, POB 9659, Ar- 



lington VA 22209, (703) 
558-3617. 

March 24-26 

The Southwest Semiconduc- 
tor Exposition, Phoenix 
Civic Plaza Convention 
Center, Phoenix AZ. More 
than 140 equipment and 
materials makers will exhibit 
semiconductor, hybrid, and 
printed-circuit board pro- 
duction, processing, and test 
equipment. Contact 
Cartlidge & Associates Inc, 
491 Macara Ave, Suite 1014, 
Sunnyvale CA 94086, (408) 
245-6870. 

March 31-April 2 

Cincinnati Business Show, 

Cincinnati Convention- 
Exposition Center, Cincin- 
nati OH. Office equipment 
and services, including 
automated systems, com- 
munications, computers, 
telephone systems, word 
processing, data processing, 
printing equipment, and 
other office supplies, will be 
featured. A program of 




ENERGY SOFTWARE 

for engineers, designers, builders, etc. 

PASSIVE SOLAR DESIGN: direct gain, sunspaces, trombe & water walls 

PASOOE 1: Los Alamos SSF correlation model 

with economics computerised $295 

EXFIND/LPMTZ: Hourly simulation models for assessing 
building energy load dynamics and 
economics of passive design $395/695 

OVERHANG: A 2-dimensional overhang shading 

design program $195 

CONSERVATION DESIGN: assessenergyfrom s component or system level 

BILL: Correlation of a buildings energy bills and 

weather for conservation assessment . . . $295 

INSULATE: Building surface insulation optimization 

and economics package $195 



Programs available: TRS-80, APPLE II, CPM ICSASIC2, MICROSOFT), 

NORTHSTAR, ALPHA MICRO. 
Orders: Prepaid/C.O.D. — 20% discount on 2 or more packages 

7438 FORSYTH, SUITE 202 

LONDE 'PARKER 'MICHELS ST. louis, mo.63106 

13141 7255501 



business seminars is also 
scheduled. Contact Ray G 
Nemo, 5679 Creek Rd; Cin- 
cinnati OH 45242, (513) 
531-5959. 



April 1981 



April 1-3 

Assuring Quality in Elec- 
tronic Data Processing Ap- 
plications, McCormick Inn 
Hotel, Chicago IL. The ob- 
jective of this conference is 
to explain the methods, 
tools, and techniques that 
are valuable in improving 
the quality of computerized 
applications. Tutorials will 
cover the areas of quality 
assurance; managing struc- 
tured design; and designing, 
implementing, and enforcing 
application standards. Con- 
tact DPMA Quality Assur- 
ance Conference, 12611 
Davan Dr, Silver Spring 
MD 20904, (301) 622-0066. 

April 3-5 

The Sixth West Coast Com- 
puter Faire, Civic 
Auditorium, San Francisco 
CA. The Faire, a major 
personal-computing event, 
has continually attracted 
larger and larger numbers of 
exhibitors and attendees. A 
full program of talks plus a 
large display of hardware 
and software are featured. 
For more information, con- 
tact Computer Faire, 333 
Swett Rd, Woodside CA 
94062, (415) 851-7075. 

April 7-8 

Top Secrets '81, Pointe 
Resort, Phoenix AZ. 
Honeywell's annual com- 
puter security and privacy 
conference. Many author- 
ities in the field of data 
security will discuss the 
business and legal impact of 
the latest incidents in com- 
puter crime and abuse. The 
conference fee is $500. Con- 
tact the Security Symposium 
Registrar, Honeywell Infor- 
mation Systems, M/S 
T-99-4, POB 6000, Phoenix 
AZ 85005, (800) 528-5343. 

April 7-9 

Computerized Office Equip- 
ment Expo, O'Hare Exposi- 



tion Center, Rosemont IL. 
Over 200 exhibitors will be 
featuring their office equip- 
ment at this show. Execu- 
tives and administrators 
from wholesale, retail, com- 
mercial, financial, and in- 
dustrial establishments are 
invited, along with the 
general public. Contact In- 
dustrial & Scientific Con- 
ference Management Inc, 
222 W Adams St, Chicago 
IL 60606, (312) 263-4866. 

April 7-9 

Electro/81, New York 
Coliseum and Sheraton Cen- 
tre Hotel, New York NY. 
Electro/81 will feature com- 
puters and computer-related 
equipment, plus seminars on 
components, devices, and 
materials; computer com- 
munications; memories; of- 
fice automation; speech; and 
more. Contact Electronic 
Conventions Inc, 999 N 
Sepulveda Blvd, Suite 410, 
El Segundo CA 90245, (213) 
772-2965. 

April 13-16 

The Fifteenth Annual 
Symposium on Minicom- 
puters and Microcomputers, 
MIMI '81, Sheraton Hotel, 
Mexico City, Mexico. This 
symposium covers hard- 
ware, software, distributed 
processor architecture, com- 
puter networks, telecom- 
munications, real-time ap- 
plications, education, and 
more. Contact Ing. Jorge 
Gil, Academic Secretary, 
MIMI Symposium, IIMAS- 
UNAM, Apartado Postal 
20-726, Mexico 20 D F, 
Mexico. 

April 26-30 

Saudibusiness '81, Riyadh, 
Saudi Arabia. This show has 
been designed for the fast- 
growing Saudi Arabian 
business community. 
Pavilions by the United 
States, the United Kingdom, 
West Germany, France, 
Italy, and approximately fif- 
teen other countries will be 
featured. For more informa- 
tion, contact Donald Ryan, 
Project Manager, Rm 3200, 
US Department of Com- 
merce, Washington DC 
20230, (202) 377-4652. ■ 



302 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 222 on inquiry card. 



Circle 224 on inquiry card. 



Circle 225 on Inquiry card. 




GO FOR IT! 

FOR PRICE,QUALITY& RELIABILITY 

ADDS REGENT 25 $ 925.00 

ANACOM Printer (Ser./Par.) 150CPS .... 1095.00 

ANADEX Printer DP-8000 925.00 

ANADEX Printer DP-9500/9501 '. 1375.00 

BASE 2 Printer with options 599.00 

CENTRONICS Printer 779 w/tractor 975.00 

CENTRONICS Printer 730 (Parallel) 675.00 

CENTRONICS Printer 737 (Parallel) 825.00 

EATON Dot Matrix Parallel 399.00 

EPSON TX80 Tractor Feed/ Graf trax .... Call 

MICRO-TERMS Call 

NEC SPINWRITER 5510 R.O. /forms tractor 2725.00 

TELEVIDEO 920-B 795.00 

Tl 99/4 Personal Computer/monitor .... 925.00 

TRIMM-Printer Stand with basket 95.00 

CALL FOR QUOTES ON ANY OTHER MICRO PRODUCTS 

We are dealers for BASF, DYSAN, 3M(SCOTCH) Dis- 
kettes, Cartridges, Mag Tape, etc. In addition we carry a 
complete line of Printer Ribbons and other data process- 
ing accessories. 

[ — m ^-^Jimm\ 1840 LINCOLN BLVD., 

llllCr 1 /"! SANTA MONICA, CA 90404 
l UlflLf JJ (213) 450-591 1 (call collect) 

MART, INC PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE 




Clock/Calendar 

Now available on Three Buses 

Features *APPLE II 

• 12/24 Hr. Format 

• Month-Day-Year 

• Day of Week * TRS-80 

• Leap Year Bit 

• 4 Interrupts <^ 

• +-30Sec.Adjust\ 

• Battery Backup 

• Simple to Program 



S100 



S-100 or Apple 

A&T S150 

Kit S100 

Bare Bet S 60 



TRS-80 

A&T Only 
S150 




LAX COMPUTER PRODUCTS 

4728 Manhattan Beach Blvd. 
Lawndale, CA 90260 
(213)970-1759 



WE ACCEPT 

VISA, MC 
& AMER. EXP. 

Apple is a Trademark of 
Apple Computer Co. 

TRS80 is a Trademark of 
Tandy Corp. 



Omikron's Mapper + NEWDOS/80 
8 Drives for the TRS-80 



NEWDOS/80 is Apparat's latest upgrade to 
NEWDOS. Features include variable length 
records, chaining, and drivers specifically con- 
figured for Omikron's MAPPER II. $150. 

MAPPER II adapts the TRS-80 to run both 5" 
and 8" drives. With NEWDOS/80, storage is 
increased to 300K per 8" drive. $99 plus $10 
per cable connector. 

MAPPER I adapts the TRS-80 to run the vast 
library of CP/M software as well as the TRS-80 
software. All Lifeboat Software may be ordered 
forthe MAPPER I. All MAPPER I CP/M soft- 
ware is compatible with the CP/M forthe Model 
II. With MAPPER II and 8" drives, the Model 
I becomes disk compatible with the Model II. 



Standard features include lowercase support, 
serial and parallel printer drivers, and an ad- 
dressable cursor. MAPPER I is supplied with 
complete utilities including a memory test, a 
disk test, a copy program, and a proprietary 
program for converting TRS-DOS files to CP/M 
files. $199. 

WORD PROCESSING- MAPPER I supports 
professional word processors like the Magic 
Wand and Word Star (see reviews in June 80 
Kilobaud). Omikron's implementation includes 
a blinking cursor, auto repeat, shift lock, de- 
bouncing, and an input buffer that eliminates 
missed characters. Magic Wand super discount 
price $299. 



FIELD PROVEN DESIGNS- After one year of 
MAPPER production, Omikron has established 
an impeccable reputation for reliability, integrity, 
and user support. Omikron's customers include 
the US Government, major corporations, uni- 
versities, medical doctors, and professionals in 
all fields. 

SYSTEMS — Omikron sells complete systems 
featuring Model II compatible Shugart disk 
drives. Call for prices and delivery. 

FOREIGN ORDERS must include full payment in 
US funds plus $25 for air shipping and handling. 



See review in July 80 BYTE By Jerry Pournelle. 




*CP/M isaTM of Digital Research. TRS-80 is a TM of T 



andy Corporation. 



Circle 223 on inquiry card. 




Book Reviews 



Writing 
Interactive 
Compilers and 
Interpreters 

P J Brown 
U/iley Interscience 
New York, 1979 
256 pages, hardcover 
S26.95 

Reviewed by 
Paul Chisholm 
209 Bernard Ct 
Madison Wl 53715 

There are two important 
aspects of compiler writing. 
One is that compilers are big 
programs, and big programs 
are very difficult to write. 
(A thousand-line program is 
considerably more than ten 
times as difficult to write as 
a hundred-line program.) 
The other aspect is that 
there are many well-known 
techniques for translating or 
interpreting programs. 
Brown's book deals with this 
aspect. He assumes you are 
able to program in a high- 
level language (such as 
Pascal) and that you have 
had some experience with an 
interactive language (pref- 
erably BASIC). 

Brown discusses the fun- 
damentals of compiler 
writing. He strongly em- 
phasizes interactive pro- 
gramming languages, like 
BASIC, where programs are 
developed one segment at a 
time, as opposed to being 
carefully edited and put 
through a compiler. He also 
assumes that most of his 
readers are working with 
single-user microcomputer 
systems which have limited 
memory. Therefore, he 
often mentions ways to 
squeeze a few extra bytes 
from the programs; but he 
does not worry very much 
about speed. 

The book is divided into 
eight parts. They deal with 
planning of the project, the 
overall structure of the com- 
piler (including the internal 
representation language, 
error checking, symbol 
tables, storage management, 



304 February 19B1 © BYTE Publications Inc 



and such), the internal 
language (most often 
Reverse Polish Notation), 
parsing and translation, the 
run time system, other 
modules, compiler testing, 
and advanced topics. 

Throughout the book, 
Brown emphasizes the mod- 
ular approach — designing, 
coding, and testing the sys- 
tem one piece at a time. He 
spends much time on the 
recreation of programs from 
the internal representation. 
For instance, if the BASIC 
you use sometimes inserts or 
drops spaces in your state- 
ments, it is because the 
editor within the BASIC 
system does not store your 
program the way you typed 
it in. Instead, it stores it in 
its own internal representa- 
tion. Unless you also want 
to store the program exactly 
as it was entered, using a 
total of twice as much mem- 
ory, you need a way to re- 
create the program from the 
internal representation. 
Brown also discusses in- 
cremental compiling — com- 
piling a program a segment 
at a time. (If the version of 
BASIC you use translates 
each line as it is typed in, it 
is doing incremental com- 
pilation.) And Brown talks 
about handling what he calls 
"break ins" — what must be 
done after you hit the break 
or reset key. There is a very 
complete index, and an ex- 
cellent bibliography. 

Brown does not say much 
about the other major aspect 
of compiler writing — how to 
write very large programs. 
However, he suggests sev- 
eral "deadly sins" to avoid. 
He recommends the book 
Software Tools, by Brian 
Kernighan and P J Plauger, 
for more on this subject. 

If you have had some ex- 
perience with writing very 
large programs, Writing In- 
teractive Compilers and In- 
terpreters has all you need 
to know to write a compiler 
or interpreter that handles 
BASIC, PILOT, or Logo (or 
even APL or LISP). It is a 
little weak for handling 
more complex languages 




#10 SOFTWARE 

\S new items/new prices. 

FANTASTIC PRICE PROTECTION POLICY 

We'll match any advertised price on any item that we carry. 
And if you find a lower price on what you bought within 
30 days of buying it, just show us the ad and we'll refund 
the difference. 

It's that simple. 

Combine our price protection with the availability of full 
professional support and ourautomatic update service and 
you have the Ultimate Software Plan. 

It's a convenient, uncomplicated, logical way to get 
your software. 

CP/M users: specify disk systems and formats. Most formats available. 



CP/M' 

OSBORNE H °" 

General Ledger*. . . .$ 59/$20 
Acct Rec/Acct Pay*. .1 59/$20 

Payroll w/Cost* $ 59/S20 

Buy 2 get 1 free $118/$57 

AII3&CBASIC-2 $199/$71 

DIGITAL RESEARCH 

CP/M 2.2 Northstar.. .$149/525 

s CP/M 2.2 Micropolis...$169/$25 

t' CP/M 2.2 Durango 

F-85 $169/$25 

CP/M 2.2 Cromemco $189/525 
CP/M (other versions) Call 

*- PL/l-80 $459/535 

Mac 5 85/$ 15 

Sid $ 65/$ 15 

Z-Sid $ 95/$15 

Tex $ 70/$ 15 

DeSpool $ 50/$10 

MICROSOFT 

Basic-80 5294/530 

Basic Compiler 5334/530 

Fortran-80 5384/530 

s Cobol-80 $574/$30 

Macro-80 .$144/$20 

Edit-80 $ 84/520 

MuSimp/MuMalh $224/$25 

,s MuLisp-80 $174/$20 

MICRO DATA BASE SYSTEMS 

HDBS $250/$40 

MDBS $750/$40 

Other Call 

S.O.F.T.W.A.R.E. 

MicroTax't 

Federal individual $749/$50 

Federal corporate $249/$25 

State individual $249/$25 

TCSt 

• General Ledger $ 79/$25 

^ Acct Receivable. $ 79/$25 

s Acct Payable $ 79/$25 

s Payroll $ 79/$25 

*• All 4. $269/$99 

SUPERSOFT 

Forth (8080 or Z80) 5129/525 

Diagnostic I. $ 49/$20 

Other disk software .... less 10% 
SOFTWARE WORKS 

Adapt $ 69/ na 

Ratfor $ 86/ na 

COMPUTER PATHWAYS 

Pearl (level 1)#. $ 99/$25 

Pearl (level 2)*. . .5299/525 

Pearl (level 3)# $549/$25 

COMPLETE BUSINESS 
SYSTEMS} 

^Creator $269/$25 

*■ Reportor $169/$20 

,<- Both $399/$45 

MICROPRO 

WordStar. $324/$40 

Mail/Merge $114/$25 



THIS MONTH'S SPECIAL: 
TIM. DBMS JUST S299. 

Terrific for inventory, mailings, 
financial, you-name-it! Menu- 
driven, auto-sort, 32000 records 
per file, any number of files, and 
dynamite documentation! 



WordStar/Mail-Merge .$434/$65 

DataStar $279/$35 

Word-Master $119/$25 

SuperSort I $199/$25 

SuperSortll $169/$25 

SuperSort III $119/$25 

PEACHTREE'Ht 

General Ledger $399/$40 

Acct Receivable $399/$40 

Acct Payable $399/$40 

Payroll $399/$40 

Inventory .$399/$40 

Property Mgt $799/$40 

C.RA. Client Write-up. .$799/$40 

Mailing Address $349/$40 

STRUCTURED SYSTEMS 

GLorAR or AP# $747/$25 

Payroll* $747/525 

InventoryControl* .5447/540 

Analyst* $197/$20 

Letteright* $167/$20 

NAD# $ 87/$20 

QSORT .$ 87/$20 

GRAHAM-DORIANH 

General Ledger* $693/$40 

Acct Receivable# $693/$40 

Acct Payable* .5693/540 

Job Costing* $693/$40 

Payroll* $493/$40 

Inventory* $493/$40 

Cash Register* $493/$40 

Apartment Mgt*. .... .5493/540 

MICRO-AP 

Selector III-C2* $269/$20 

Selector IV* $469/$35 

.' S-Basic $269/$25 

WHITESMITHS 

"C" Compiler* $600/530 

Pascal (fncl"C")* ... $750/$45 
EIDOS SYSTEMS 

Kiss .$299/$25 

K-Basic $529/$50 

ORGANIC SOFTWARE 
TextWriter III $111/$20 

S DateBook $269/525 

SoHo Group 

k« MatchMaker, $ 84/$io 

.•'Worksheet $124/$20 

• OTHER GOODIES' 

Tiny ■C" $ 89/$50 

k< Tiny "C" Compiler $229/$50 

CBASIC-2 $ 89/$ 15 

Pascal/Z. .$369/$30 



Pascal/UCSD $299/$30 

Pascal/MT+ $224/530 

Pascal/M $149/520 

Nevada Cobol 5129/525 

s Raid 5229/525 

,-- MAGSAM III 5129/525 

,-- MAGSAM IV 5259/525 

S BSTAM 5129/510 

FMS-80 5649/545 

dBASE II DBMS 5629/535 

Condor DBMS 5599/530 

Vulcan DBMS 5469/530 

T.I.M. DBMS* 5329/535 

CBS 5369/545 

Whatsit' 5 149/525 

^ Ultra-Sort II 5159/5 25 

p- MicroStat 5224/515 

String/80 $ 84/520 

s Vedit $ 99/515 

Postmaster 5149/520 

^ WordSearch $ 1 79/$25 

./- SoellGuard $269/$25 

Spell Binder $349/545 

./- VTS/80 5489/565 

MagicWand 5299/545 

Electric Pencil II less 15% 

CPAids less 12% 

APPLE II s 

MICROSOFT 

Softcard(CP/M) 5292 

Cobol Call 

PERSONAL SOFTWARE 

VisicalC .$122 

CCA Data Mgr 5 84 

Desktop/Plan $ 84 

<s Zork. Call 

PEACHTREE-HJ 

General Ledger 5224/540 

Acct Receivable. , . ,.5224/540 

Acct Payable $224/540 

Payroll 5224/540 

Inventory 5224/540 

MUSE 

Super-Text II 5127 

Other disk software. . . less 10% 
STC (Software Tech.) 

s Prof.Time& Billing . $279 

Other less 15% 

OTHER GOODIES" 

K* Data Factory $ 79 

Whatsit?" $129 

y Creator $229 

S LedgerPlus 

(GL A/R & A/P) . , . $549 

TRS-BO" MODEL II 

CP/M 2.2 (P&T) $159/$35 

Electric Pencil II less 15% 

NORTHSTAR 

s NorthWord S299 

s Mail Manager $239 

is Info Manager $369 

y General Ledger $749 

i'' Acct Receivable $449 

f Acct Payable $449 



♦ — Special Bon 



t-Reauiresmicrosoft BASIC H-Supplied in source code s-Reauires CBASIC-2 R— Mtgs Trademark 



ORDERS ONLY-CALL TOLL FREE VISA • MASTERCHARGE 

1-800-854-2003 ext. 823 • Calif. 1-800-522-1500 ext. 823 

Overseas— add $10 plus additional postage • Add $2.50 postage and handling per each item • California 
residents add 6% sales tax • Allow 2 weeks on checks. C.O.D. ok • Prices subject to change without notice 
All items subject to availability • 

THE DISCOUNT SOFTWARE GROUP 

1610 Argyle Ave., Bldg. 102 ■ Los Angeles, CA 90028 • (213) 666-7677 



Circle 226 on Inquiry card. 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 305 






Buy From CMC International, The 

SUPRBR/MN 

SPECIALISTS 

TO ORDER CALL 1-800-426-2963 




SUPRBRAIN 



64K 



SIngle-slded. double 
denslly. Retail $3345. 



Double-sided, double denslly. 720k 
byles slorage. 64k RAM Retail 53995. 



2550 
'3245 



COMPUSTAR 

Intertec's new multi-user system 

Model 10 . . . Sugg. List $2495 Call tor price 

Model 15 $1995 Call for price 

Model 20 $3995 Call for price 

Model 30 $4495 Call for price 

Model 40 $4995 Call for price 

HARD DISCS 

Intertec's Winchester Type 8" hard disk for 
Superbrain or Compustar Terminal 

10mb Sugg List $4995. Your Cost $3890 

Call for prices on 32 mb and 96 mb hard disks. 



TERMINALS 



Intertube III. 
Emulator 



Sugg. List $895 
$895 



Your Cost $750 
$750 



SOFTWARE 



CBosic MBasic 



Account Receivable 
Accounts Payable 
General Ledger 
Payroll 
Inventory 

Restaurant Payroll 
Job Costing 
Client Billing 
Mailing List (NAD) 
Moster Tax Package 
(CP Aids) 
Restaurant Cost & 

Inventory Program 
Medical Billing 
Dental Billing 
Cash Register 

Inventory Program 



Reg. Cost 

$750 $350 
$750 $350 
$750 $350 
$750 $350 
$750 $350 
$750 $350 
$750 $350 
$750 $350 
$150 

$1500 $995 

$750 $350 
$1000 $899 
$1000 $899 

$750 $500 



LOOK AT OUR PRINTERS & PRICES! 



VISTA V-300 

Daisy wheel printer, 25 cps 

Retail CMC $1ARft 

$1895 Price !■?»**/ 

VISTA 45 cps 

$ 1750 



Retail CMC 
$2195 Price. 



EPSON 
MX-80 

Parallel, multi-column, 80 cps, 
disposable print head Retail 
$645 

CMC Price S 555 



DOT MATRIX 

All printers with RS 232 

MPI 88TReg $749 

MPI 88 GReg $749 

Graphics option odd $50 

PAPER TIGER 440 Reg $995 . 

440 w/graphics & 2k Buffer . . 

Tl 810 Reg. $1895 

Tl 810 w/full ASCII Reg.$2155 . 



s 595 
s 650 



s 895 

s 985 

$ 1650 

s 1950 



C. IT0H 

Daisy wheel starwriter, 25 cps, 
one year warranty Retail S 1 895 



CMC Price 



s 1450 
45 cps MODEL 

CMC Price S 1750 



WORD PROCESSING 



Magic Wand R eg $400 .... s 325 

VTS-80 Reg $549 S 469 

WORD STAR Reg $495. . . s 400 
WORD STAR/MAIL MERGE. . . .'515 



{LINK 80 '89 

[CAT Novation Modem '169 



DAISY WHEEL or THIMBLE 

XYMEC Reg $2875 $ 2530 

QUME 5/45RO Reg. $3073 .... '2695 

KSR Reg. $3537 s 3145 

With tractor Reg. $3787. . .'3350 

DIABLO 630 R0 Reg $2950. . '2180 

RO with tractor. Reg.$3250 . '2380 

ANADEX DP 9500 or 9501 ... . '1399 
NEC 5510 Call for price 



LANGUAGES 



C BaSlC Your Cost $125 

M Basic $325 

Fortran $450 

Cobol $650 

Pascal (UCSD) Reg.$400 . . . $325 



EPROMReg $125 '120 

Cuts access time in half. Allows serial number of 
machine on chio and all software. 



DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED 

TO ORDER CALL 1-800-426-2963 

k INFORMATION CALL (206) 453-9777 or (509) 663-1626 



»^7 



NTERNATIDNAl 



777 or (509) bbj-twb (Washington Residents Ado 

5% Sales Tax) 

(Division of Cornpotrr Marketing Corp.) 

Administrative Offices ■ P.O. Box 679, Wenatchee, WA 98801 
National and International Sales Office - 11058 Main, Bellevue. WA 98004 



such as Pascal. Brown is 
aware of this, and suggests 
more advanced readers look 
at David Gries's Compiler 
Construction for Digital 
Computers. If you plan to 
write more advanced com- 
pilers, it would be well 
worth your while to read 
Gries. However, if you are 
just starting out writing 
compilers, P J Brown's book 
is the one for you. 



Language in 
Thought and 
Action 
(4th edition] 

S I Hayakawa, 
Harcourt Brace 
Jovanovich 
New York, 1978 
318 pages, softcover 
S8.95 

Reviewed by 
Thomas Munnecke 
6199 Shaker Drive 
Riverside CA 92506 



At first glance you might 
wonder what this book by 
the flamboyant senator from 
California has to do with 
computers. Although it is 
ostensibly a textbook for 
students of semantics, it is 
actually a very timely and 
insightful guide for anyone 
interested in computer 
languages, systems design, 
program documentation, or 
software engineering. 

Written in 1939, before 
the digital computer was 
even a dream, Language in 
Thought and Action offers 
valuable lessons for today's 
computer-smart reader. 
Forty-two years after 
publication, Hayakawa's 
book seems almost prophet- 
ic. Or perhaps our technolo- 
gy has not taken us as far as 
we would like to believe. 

Hayakawa will appeal to 
anyone interested in logical 
thought processes and, more 
particularly, linguistics. He 
wrote "as a response to the 
dangers of propaganda, 
especially as exemplified in 
Adolf Hitler's success in per- 



306 February 1981 © BYTE Publications lnc 



Circle 227 on inquiry card. 



suading millions to share his 
maniacal and destructive 
views. It was my conviction 
then, as it remains now, that 
everyone needs to have a 
habitually critical attitude 
towards language — his own 
as well as that of others." 

In order to fully ap- 
preciate his book, you must 
transfer the concept of "lan- 
guage" as the spoken word 
to the concept of "language" 
as it exists in the computing 
world. Both have syntax 
(how you say it), semantics 
(what you mean), and prag- 
matics (what you are trying 
to accomplish). Once you 
grasp the generality of 
language, you can under- 
stand the concept of com- 
puter language. Languages, 
specifications, and documen- 
tation suddenly appear in a 
new light. 

Beginning programmers 
often seem unable to recog- 
nize the arbitrary nature of 
the symbols in the program- 
ming language. It is as if 
they see the term "SIN(X)" 
as some kind of magical in- 
cantation, rather than as a 
programmed abstraction of 
a particular language. Hay- 
akawa's statement on this is 
as follows: 



"We are, as human be- 
ings, uniquely free to manu- 
facture and manipulate and 
assign values to our symbols 
as we please. Indeed, we can 
go further by making sym- 
bols that stand for 
symbols." 

Although all computer 
languages manipulate and 
assign values to symbols, 
the early computer lan- 
guages, such as FORTRAN, 
COBOL, and BASIC, re- 
strict the dynamic manip- 
ulation of these symbols. 
Newer languages have gone 
further, creating symbols 
that stand for symbols, as in 
APL, PL/1, MUMPS, LISP, 
and Pascal. 

For those initially con- 
fused by the apparent com- 
plexities of higher-level lan- 
guages, Hayakawa offers 
this encouragement: 



System Log 



3-/o Am- 



Jg^fekjgjfej, 



jQeUcw L 



D/j&A/esr/cs *lt. v 



£ /XUd st £ /z ^ u&<t a*w (. 



Aj sf&fefH sfaicJ? or? ^ttt*^^ 




DIAGNOSTICS 

Diagnostics II is SuperSoft's expanded Diagnostic package. 

Diagnostic II builds upon the highly acclaimed Diagnostics I. It will test 
each of the five areas of your system: 

Memory Terminal Printer CPU Disk 

Every test is expanded. 

Every test is "submit"-able. A "submit" file is included in the package which 
"chains" together the programs in Diagnostics II, achieving an effective 
acceptance test. All output can be directed to a log file for unattended operation, 
for example over night testing. Terminal test is now generalized for most crt 
terminals. A quick-test has been added for quick verification of the working 
of the system. 

The memory test is the best one we have encountered. It has new features, 
including: 

• default to the size of the CP/M Transient Program Area (TPA) 

• printout of a graphic memory map • burn in test 

• bank selection option • memory speed test 
Diagnostics-ll still includes the only CPU test for 8080/8085/Z80. 

A Spinwriter/Diablo/Qume test has been added, which tests for the positioning 
and control features of the Spinwriter/Diablo/Qume as well as its ASCII 
printing features. (Serial Interface only) 

And, as with all SuperSoft products, a complete online HELP 
system and user manual is included. 

Price: $100.00 (manual only): $15.00 

Requires: 32K CP/M 

CP/M Formats: 8" soft sectored, 5" Northstar, 5" Micropolis 
Mod II, Vector MZ, Superbrain DD/QD 



All Orders and General Information: 

SUPERSOFT ASSOCIATES 

P.O. BOX 1628 

CHAMPAIGN, IL 61820 

(217) 359-2112 

Technical Hot Line: (217) 359-2691 

(answered only when technician is available) 

CP/M REGISTERED TRADEMARK DIGTAL RESEARCH 



SuperSoft 



First in Software Technology 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications ]nc 307 



ENTREPRENEURS 

|m|^"^"| IB"I | MORE THAN EVER IN THE MICRO- 
|f^m ^mUj COMPUTER INDUSTRY. 

The shortage of knowledgeable dealers/distributors is the #1 problem of microcomputer 
manufacturers. Over 300 new systems houses will go into business this year, but the number 
falls short of the 1200 needed. It is estimated that the nationwide shortage of consultants will be 
over 3000 by 1981. The HOW TO manuals by Essex Publishing are your best guide to start 
participating in the continued microcomputer boom. 




$36. 



HOW TO START YOUR OWN SYSTEMS HOUSE 

6th edition, March 1980 

Written by the founder of a successful systems house, this 

fact-filled 220-page manual covers virtually all aspects of 

starting and operating a small systems company. It is abundant 

with useful, real-life samples: contracts, proposals, agreements 

and a complete business plan are included in full, and may be 

used immediately by the reader. 

Proven, field-tested solutions to the many problems facing the 

small systems house are presented. 

From the contents: 

• New Generation of Systems Houses • The SBC Marketplace 

• Marketing Strategies • Vertical Markets & lAPs • Competitive 
Position/Plans of Major Vendors • Market Segment Selection & 
Evaluation • Selection of Equipment & Manufacturer • Make or 
Buy Decision • Becoming a Distributor • Getting Your 
Advertising Dollar's Worth • Your Salesmen: Where to Find 
Them • Product Pricing • The Selling Cycle • Handling the 12 
Most Frequent Objections Raised by Prospects • Financing for 
the Customer • Leasing • Questions You Will Have to Answer 
Before the Prospect Buys • Producing the System •Installation, 
Acceptance. Collection • Documentation • Solutions to the 

Service Problem • Protecting Your Product • Should You Start Now? • How to Write a Good 
Business Plan • Raising Capital 



HOW TO BECOME 
A SUCCESSFUL 

COMPUTER 
CONSULTANT 



HOW TO BECOME A SUCCESSFUL COMPUTER 
CONSULTANT 

by Leslie Nelson, 2nd revised edition, Jan 1981 
Independent consultants are becoming a vitally important factor 
in the microcomputer field, filling the gap between the computer 
vendors and commercial/industrial users. The rewards of the 
consultant can be high: freedom, more satisfying work and 
doubled ortripled income. HOWTO BECOME A SUCCESSFUL 
COMPUTER CONSULTANT provides comprehensive back- 
ground information and step-by-step directions for those 
interested to explore this lucrative field: 

• Established consulting markets • How to get started • Itemized 
start-up costs • Are you qualified? • Beginning on a part-time 
basis • The Marketing Kit • Should you advertise? • Five 
marketing tips • Getting free publicity • How much to charge 

• When do you need a contract? • Sample proposals • Which 
J28. No. 16 jobs should be declined • Future markets • The way to real big 

money • Avoiding the legal pitfalls • How consultants' associations can help you • The National 
Register of Computer Consultants • How others did it: real-life sample cases • and much more. 




FREE-LANCE SOFTWARE MARKETING 3rd edition, June 1980 
Writing and selling computer programs as an independent is a 
business where • you can get started quickly, with little capital 
investment • you can do it full time or part time • the potential 
profits are almost limitless. Since the demand for computer 
software of all kinds is growing at an explosive rate, the 
conditions for the small entrepreneur are outstanding. 

This manual will show you how to sell your own computer programs 
using these proven techniques: • direct to industries • through 
consulting firms • through manufacturers of computer hardware 
• in book form • mail order • through computer stores. It will 
show you how to profitably sell and license all types of software 
ranging from sophisticated analytical programs selling forthou- 
sands of dollars, down to simple accounting routines and games 
for personal computers. 

The book will guide you step by step through the process of 
$30. No. 32 marketing, advertising, negotiating a contract, installing software, 

training users and providing maintenance and support. It also contains sample software contracts 
that have been used in actual software transactions. Also included are tips on how to negotiate 
with a large corporation, ways of avoiding personal liability, techniques for obtaining free computer 
time and hints on how to run a free-lance software business while holding a full-time job. 



Name 



Address 
City 



.State. 



-Zip 



ESSEX PUBLISHING CO. Dept. 2 

285 Bloomfield Avenue • Caldwell, N.J. 07006 

Order books by number. Send check, money order (U.S.S), VISA or Master Charge #. Publisher pays 4th 

class shipping. For UPS shipping (USA only)add $1.00 per book. For Air Mail shipping add $250 per book 

in North America, $5.00 in Europe and South America. $8.00 elsewhere. N.J. residents add 5% sales tax 

D No. 10 □ No. 16 □ No. 32 O Check enclosed O Credit card □ 4th class □ UPS □ Air 



Card** Exp. 

For faster shipment on credit card orders call (201) 783-6940 between 9 and 5 Eastern time. 



"The fact that more things 
can go wrong with motor- 
cars than with wheelbarrows 
is no reason for going back 
to wheelbarrows. Similarly, 
the fact that the symbolic 
process makes complicated 
follies possible is no reason 
for wanting to return to a 
cat-and-dog existence. A 
better solution is to under- 
stand the symbolic process, 
so that instead of being its 
victims, we become, to 
some degree at least, its 
masters." 

He also warns that sym- 
bols must be viewed in their 
relationship to other sym- 
bols. I once had an exper- 
ience with a computer pro- 
grammed to assist in medical 
diagnoses. I was asked to 
type in my symptoms, and 
the computer would respond 
with a possible diagnosis. 
Being on the last leg of a 
hectic cross-country trip, I 
selected symptoms of head- 
ache, tiredness, and so 
forth. The computer re- 
sponded with the suggestion 
that I was suffering from 
pre-menstrual tension. It un- 
fortunately ignored the 
critical context that I was 
male. 

The chapter on "Reports, 
Inferences, and Judgments" 
directly corresponds to the 
chronological development 
of the computer technology 
industry. The "report" con- 
cept is equivalent to the old 
batch-run systems in which 
the entire file is reported to 
the user after each batch is 
run. Many of these systems 
are being reprogrammed to 
run on-line with the manip- 
ulation of only selected 
data — in correspondence to 
Hayakawa's "inference." 
And finally, the "judgment" 
concept applies to the use of 
the computer in the future, 
as it becomes actively in- 
volved in making its own 
decisions in such disciplines 
as artificial intelligence or 
modeling. 

Hayakawa then turns to a 
discussion about standards. 
He cites the chaos existing in 
the time zone standards 
before the year 1883: 



308 Febnjary 1981 © B YTE Publications Inc 



Circle 229 on inquiry card. 



"When it was noon in Chi- 
cago, it was 12:31 in Pitts- 
burgh, 12:24 in Cleveland, 

12:17 in Toledo There 

were twenty-seven time 
zones in Michigan alone. 
(When the time zones were 
standardized, farmers were 
afraid of the change, saying 
that their cows would not 
know when to come 
home.)" 



The comparison with 
computer language stan- 
dards is clear. How many 
BASIC and Pascal dialects 
and extensions are there? 
And how many interpreta- 
tions of the S-100 bus are 
floating around? When it 
comes to getting modern- 
day language implementors 
to agree on a standard ver- 
sion, one meets just as many 
sacred cows. 

His section "Presymbolic 
Language in Ritual" could 
just as well have been dis- 
cussing the ritualistic state- 
ments forced upon the 
COBOL programmer every 
time he writes a program. A 
strong comparison could be 
made between this mean- 
ingless process in COBOL 
and the multitude of 
religions around the world 
which conduct services in 
old and forgotten languages. 

In "How We Know What 
We Know," Hayakawa ex- 
plains the process of 
abstracting. He takes us 
from a quote by Ambrose 
Bierce: 

"An edible: Good to eat and 
wholesome to digest, as a 
worm to a toad, a toad to a 
snake, a snake to a pig, a 
pig to a man, and a man to 
a worm " 

to an exposition of the levels 
of abstraction of a cow, in 
an essay that should be re- 
quired reading for all pro- 
grammers who strive for 
structured programming or 
structured design. 

The section "On Defini- 
tions" should be read by 
anyone who is too im- 
pressed by program docu- 
mentation outside the pro- 
gram: 



CALL TOLL FREE 



800-538-5000 



CALL US FOR VOLUME QUOTES 
WE WILL BEAT ANY COMPETITORS PRICES. GIVE US A CALL AND WE'LL PROVE IT 



NEC UPD416C-2 
4116-200NS 

8/29.95 100/3.45ea 



2716-SINGLE SUPPLY 

10.95EA 8/9.95EA 

2708 6.25ea 8/5.95ea 



2114L-3 4K STATIC 

LOW POWER 300 NS 
8/29.95 100/3.49ea 



, a ■ *». a. Low Power , _ -^ 

21L02 «° NS 1.29ea 



2102 



450NS 



.99e/ 



LS SERIES 



LOOK AT THIS LS PRICING! 



74LS00 
74LS01 
74LS02 
74LS03 
74LS04 
74LS05 
74LS08 
74LS09 
74LS10 
74LS11 
74LS12 
74LS13 
74LS14 
74LS15 
74LS20 
74LS21 
74LS22 
74LS26 
74LS27 
74LS28 
74LS30 
74LS32 
74LS33 
74LS37 
74LS38 
74LS40 
74LS42 
74LS47 
74LS48 
74LS51 
74LS54 
74LS55 



.32 74LS73 

.28 74LS74 

.38 74LS75 

.32 74LS76 

.35 74LS78 

.28 74LS83 

.38 74LS85 

.38 74LS86 

.32 74LS90 

.29 74LS92 

.29 74LS93 

.38 74LS95 

.99 74LS96 

.35 74LS107 

.26 74LS109 

.30 74LS112 

.34 74LS113 

.40 74LS114 

.35 74LS122 

.39 74LS123 

.35 74LS125 

.39 74LS126 
74LS132 

.78 74LS136 

.39 74LS138 

.25 74LS139 

.79 74LS145 

.78 74LS148 

.78 74LS151 

.35 74LS153 

.35 74LS154 

.32 74LS155 



8080 SUPPORT 



8212 
8214 
8216 
8224 
8226 
8228 
8238 
8251 
8253 
8255 
8257 
8259 
8275 
8279 



2.75 

5.25 

2.75 

2.95 

3.49 

4.95 

5.50 

6.95 

12.95 

6.50 

16.95 

14.95 

4995 

15.95 



MISC 

Ay5-10l3 

8T97 

1488 

1489 

8202 

3242 



4.99 
1.69 
1.39 
1.39 
34.95 
16.95 



74LS156 
74LS157 
74LS158 
74LS160 
74LS161 
74LS162 
74LS163 
74LS164 
74LS165 
74LS166 
74LS168 
74LS169 
74LS170 
74LS173 
74LS174 
74LS175 
74LS181 
74LS190 
74LS191 
74LS192 
74LS193 
74LS194 
74LS195 
74LS196 
74LS197 
74LS221 
74LS240 
74LS241 
74LS242 
74LS243 
74LS244 
74LS245 



MM5203AQ 

MM5204AQ 

1702A 

2708 

2716 

2732 



74LS251 
74LS253 
74LS257 
74LS258 
74LS259 
74LS260 
74LS266 
74LS273 
74LS275 
74LS279 
74LS283 
74LS290 
74LS293 
74LS295 
74LS298 
74LS352 
74LS353 
74LS363 
74LS365 
74LS366 
74LS367 
74LS368 
74LS373 
74LS374 
74LS377 
74LS385 
74LS386 
74LS390 
74LS393 
74LS395 
74LS670 



EPROMS 



1us 
750ns 

lus 
450ns 
450ns 
450ns 



256x8 
512x8 
256x8 
1Kx8 
2Kx8 
4Kx8 



13.95 
14.95 
4.95 
5.95 
10.95 
29.95 



PROMS 



CPU'S 



74S188 
74S287 
74S288 
74S387 
74S471 
74S472 
74S474 
74S570 
74S571 



(82S23) 
(82S129) 
(B2S123) 
(82S126) 

(82S147) 
(82S141) 
(62S130) 
(82S131) 



32x8 
256x4 

32x8 
256x4 
256x8 
512x8 
512x8 
512x4 
512x4 



4.75 

4.75 

4.75 

5.75 

18.75 

18.75 

19.95 

7.80 

7.80 



Z-80 

Z-80A 

8080A 

8085A 

2650 



9.95 
12.95 

3.95 
12.95 
12.95 



|.43"LED DESPLAY 

BEAUTIFUL RED 

|7SEGMENT DISPLAY 

HP 4082-7760 

.79 100/.65ea 



DIP 


SWITCHES 


LINEAR 


4 Position .99 


7 Position 1.09 


LM30IV .34 LM567V1.29 


' 5 Position 1.02 


8 Position 1.14 


LM309K1.49 LM723 .49 


6 Position 1.06 






LM311V .64 LM741V .29 








LM317T2.29 LM747 .79 


■ VOLTAGE REG'S 


IC SOCKETS 


LM323K4.95 LM1310 1.90 


I 7805T .89 7905T 


.99 


8 PIN 10/1.29 


LM324 .59 LM1414 1.59 


■ 7812T .89 7912T 


.99 




LM339 .99 LM1458 .69 


1 7815T .99 7915T 


1.19 


16 PIN 10/1.69 


LM377 2.29 LM1488 1.39 


I 7824T .99 7924T 


1.19 


18 PIN 10/1 99 


LM380 1.29 LM1489 1.39 


1 7805K 1.39 7905K 


1.49 


20 PIN 10/2.89 


LM555V .39 LM1800 1.99 


1 7812K 1.39 7912K 


1.49 


22 PIN 10/2.99 


LM556 .69 LM1889 2.49 


1 78L05 .69 79L05 


.79 


24 PIN 10/2 99 


LM565 .99 LM3900 .59 


■ 78L12 .69 79L12 


.79 


28 PIN 10/3.99 


LM566V1.49 75451V .39 


> 78L15 .69 79L15 


.79 


40 PIN 10/4.99 





VISA' 



1101 South Winchester Blvd. 
San lose, California 95128 
408-247-4852 
800-538-5000 



TERMS: Include $2.00 for shipping. 



complete catalog. 
Bay Area Residents add 6Vi% sales tax 
Calif. Residents add 6%sales tax. 
We reserve the right to limit quantities 
and substitute manufacturer. 



Circle 230 on inquiry card. 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 309 



Circle 231 on Inquiry card. 



PRINTER SPECIALS 

FOR ALL POPULAR MICROCOMPUTERS 



CENTRONICS 737*-$795 

• 80-50 CPS — back/forward 
feed 

• 18 X 9 dot matrix — 
U/L case 

• Proportional, expanded 
compressed 

• 3 way paper feed 

Parallel interface card & cable for 
Apple II. . $175 





PSON MX-80-- $645 

• 80 CPS — bidirectional 

• 9 X 9 dot matrix — U/L case 

• Compressed & expanded print 

• Adjust tractors 
arallel interface & cable for 

Apple II . . . .5110 



COMPUTERWARE " 



1512 Encinitas Blvd. • Box 668 
Encinitas. CA 92024 • (714) 436-3512 



HOWTOORDER 

Phone orders are invited. 
Use VISA. Master- 
Charge, or send cashiers 
check or noney order 
drawn on a U.S. bank. 
Add 2% shipping and 
handling or primer will 
De sent freight COD. 



Write for our Special Mail-Order Prices 

cippkz computer 

* Authorized Dealer 



t 



TO^Me memory 
for your disk 

TWICE THE BYTE 

WITH OUR $25.95 KIT 

INSTANTLY DOUBLES DISK CAPACITY 

Kit includes special tool and instructions for 
use with 5V2" and 8" floppies. 

Call collect to order: 
1-305-942-4013 

ADAPTIVE SYSTEMS, INC. 

904 S. W. 2nd Place 

Pompano Beach, Florida 33060 

TO ORDER TWICE THE BYTE KIT: 

Please phone using VISA or Master Card Or send cashier's 
check, money order or personal check (allow 14 business days 
to clear ). 

'Kit $25.95 plus $2.00 postage and handling. Florida 
residents add 4% sales tax. 

Total enclosed: $ 

D Personal Check D Money order or Cashier's check 

D VISA D MASTER CHARGE (Bank No 

Acct. NO. Exp. Date 

Signature 

Print Name 

Address 

City 

State Zip 



J 



"Definitions, contrary to 
popular opinion, tell us 

nothing about things That 

is, when we stay at the same 
level of abstraction in giving 
a definition, we do not give 
any information, unless, of 
course, the reader is already 
sufficiently familiar with the 
defining words to work him- 
self down the abstraction 
ladder." 

The concept of "Dead- 
Level Abstracting" describes 
the person who is perman- 
ently stuck at a certain level 
on the abstraction ladder. 
Hayakawa defines the two 
extremes — the low-level, 
who "go on indefinitely, 
reciting insignificant facts, 
never able to pull them 
together..." and the high- 
level, whose language "re- 
mains permanently in the 
clouds." These extremes 
describe two personalities 
often found in computer- 
related environments. The 
low-level personality is 
typified by a COBOL pro- 
grammer, determined never 
to learn another language 
because he already "knows 
how to program." The high- 
level person is apt to be a 
systems analyst who dreams 
of computing the world. 
These two approaches to 
systems design could be 
called "bottom down" and 
"top up," respectively. 

The sections "Confusion 
of Levels of Abstraction," 
"Classification," "The 
Blocked Mind," and "Cow, 
is not Cow 2 " will capture 
the sympathy of anyone 
who has grappled with the 
problems of systems design. 
"The Two-Valued Orienta- 
tion" could have been writ- 
ten by someone criticizing 
the computer's ruthless 
binary decision-making pro- 
cess. 

Today, "Poetry and Ad- 
vertising" could easily be 
renamed "Poetry and Pro- 
gramming." Hayakawa's 
phrase, "Advertising is a 
symbol-manipulating occu- 
pation," is reminiscent of 
Frederick Brooks's approach 
in his excellent book about 



computer programming, The 
Mythical Man-Month: 

"The programmer, like the 
poet, works only slightly re- 
moved from pure thought- 
stuff. He builds castles in the 
air, from air, creating by the 
exertion of the imagination. 
Few media of creation are so 
easy to polish and rework, 
so readily capable of realiz- 
ing grand conceptual struc- 
tures." 

This analogy might help ex- 
plain the programmer's per- 
sonality to outsiders. 

Perhaps the most mean- 
ingful summary of the book 
is Hayakawa's own. In his 
section "Rules for Exten- 
sional Orientation," he 
writes: 

" 1. A map is NOT the 
territory it stands for; words 
are NOT things. 

2. The meanings of 
words are not in the words; 
they are in us. 

3. Contexts determine 
meaning. 

4. When tempted to 
'fight fire with fire' 
remember that the fire 
department usually uses 
water. 

5. The two-valued orien- 
tation is the starter, not the 
steering apparatus. 

6. Beware of definitions, 
which are merely words 
about words." 

All in all, this is an in- 
sightful book on language in 
action. ■ 



BYTE's Bits 



Punk Rock Discovers 
Tl's Speak & Spell 

Adam and the Ants, a 
California-based punk-rock 
group, is churning out hit 
records featuring Texas In- 
struments' Speak & Spell 
speech-synthesis toy. In one 
song, Speech & Spell chants 
out the word "echo" over 
the background tones of a 
guitar and music syn- 
thesizer. ■ 



310 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 232 on inquiry card. 



Circle 233 on inquiry card. 



EXCLUSIVE 



Capacity that 
used to cost 
thousands 
more. 




DAS ANALOG I/O SYSTEM 



• For use with your APPLE 

• Scientiiic Quality A/D — D/A Conversion 

• 12-Bit Precision 

• Fully Family ol Modules tor Conditioning Conversion & 
Control 

• Modular, Expandable 

• Programmable Gain Amplilier 

• READY TO GO. 

Standard System Sl.SOO. 

800-343-5504 



-, SYSTEMS 



ICOMPUMART 




SINGLE * 
BOARD 
TECHNOLOGY 



tf^sSW 




Basic system with: 600K bytes 



$ 2425. 

1.2 megabytes $2990. 
2.4 megabytes $3550. 



A Z80A CPU combined with the CP/M® operating system 
opens new vistas to software availability for eight-bit 
micros. FORTRAN, COBOL, BASIC, APL, PL/1 and 

Pascal are available now to accommodate today's 

scientific, educational, sophisticated small business 

and personal system users. 



4MHz Z80A CPU 
CP/M 2 operating system 
64K 200ns main memory 
6K 300ns video memory 
8-inch dual floppy drives 



color videotext& graphics 
sound generator 
2-serial ports 
2-parallel ports 
4-counter/timers 




Dealer discounts are available. 
OEM inquiries are invited. Please contact: 

COLONIAL DATA SERVICES CORP. 

05SanfordSt.,Hamden,Connecticut06514 
(203)288-2524 

®CP/M is a registered trademark ot Digital Research. Inc. 



ATARI 



* PERSONAL 
COMPUTER 
SYSTEM 



OWNERS! 




INSTANT 32K RAM BOOST: $320 

Our new RAMCRAM gives you 32,768 bytes of add-in RAM, ready to 
go, for less than a penny a byte. Send the money or call (408) 727-0863 
and you can bill it to your bank card. Allow 3-6 weeks for delivery, 
please. Also available at your local computer store. 



For the ATARI 400*: 

There is a RAM slot inside your system. We 
designed RAMCRAM to fit it. Installation 
is simple, and must be performed by 
qualified personnel. It isplug-in compatible, 
of course, and allows the ATARI 400 to 
accept all software for 32K machines. 



For the ATARI 800*: 

Your system has three RAM slots in the 
card cage. Used with one ATARI 16K RAM 
module, RAMCRAM adds all the memory 
you can now use (48K bytes), leaving a 
third slot available for further expansion. 



170 Wolfe Road 

Sunnyvale, CA 94086 

(408) 727-0863 




AXLON 



^Indicates trademarks of Atari, Inc. 



Circle 279 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 311 



A/D and D/A Conversion- 
An Inexpensive Approach 



Roger W Mikel 

5504 Thomas Ln 

Ft Worth TX 76114 



Although there are many ways to 
achieve the conversion of data from 
analog to digital form, a converter 
that is simple, fast, inexpensive, and 
reasonably accurate is seldom 
available to the serious experimenter. 
Here I will describe a design that 
fulfills these characteristics. 

To be of practical use, a converter 
should have at least 8 bits of resolu- 
tion and be accurate to 0.4% (the 
value of the least significant bit). In 
most cases, the conversion should be 
complete in 10 to 20 /ts; this is about 
as fast as most microprocessors can 
collect two measurements and do 
anything with them. 

Theory 

After ruling out V/F (voltage-to- 
frequency conversion), slope integra- 
tion, and charge-balancing systems 
because of their slowness or complex- 
ity, I finally decided that the circuit 
should consist of a counter cycling 
continuously to drive a D/A (digital- 
to-analog) resistance ladder, com- 
monly called an R/2R circuit. The 
ramp signal produced is used as a 
reference voltage which the analog in- 
put signal is compared with. 

The output of a comparator may 
be used to strobe latches that sample 
the output of the counter. This means 



that a conversion is completed every 
256 clock cycles— at 20 MHz, the 
conversion takes less than 13 /is. 

The Circuit 

The clock circuit is based on a 
K1100A packaged oscillator pro- 
duced by Motorola, designated as 



This converter is 
simple, fast, inexpen- 
sive, and reasonably 
accurate. 



ICl in figure 1. This particular circuit 
was chosen primarily because one 
was on hand. There are a number of 
other circuits that would work as 
well, such as a 74123 multivibrator 
connected in an astable configura- 
tion, or an NE555 timer (if speed is 
not a consideration). For full-speed 
operation, the clock frequency can be 
in the range of 20 MHz and should 
have a clean square-wave output to 
drive the counter stage properly. 

The counter stage consists of IC2 
and IC3, both 74193 synchronous 
4-bit up/down counters. These are 



designed to switch simultaneously 
and therefore do not produce the 
switching transients seen at the out- 
puts of asynchronous ripple counters. 
Such "glitches" would result in erratic 
comparator operation. 

A second advantage of these 
devices is that they may be loaded in 
parallel; this allows us to use the cir- 
cuit in converting data both to and 
from digital form. The parallel output 
from these counters drives the 74173 
quad-D latches (IC4 and IC5) as well 
as the resistance ladder. 

The resistance ladder is a network 
of resistors designed to produce a 
voltage proportional to the binary 
number applied. The output voltage 
that appears at point A in figure 1 is 
described by equation 1. E0 thru E7 
represent the voltages present on the 
eight counter-output lines. Since the 
counter output is nominally 5 V, 
voltages from 20 mV to almost 5 V 
can be generated in 20 mV in- 
crements. 

The actual value of R in figure 1 is 
not too important, and can be 
anywhere in the range of 5000 to 
50,000 ohms. It is important that all 
resistances in the ladder are closely 
matched because this will affect the 
accuracy of the circuit. A good 
method to ensure close tolerance is to 



312 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 234 on inquiry card. 



BUSINESS SOfTWflR€ 
FORTHCZ-89! 



S Si M Systems, Inc., the "All-in-One" Software Company 

is offering a full line of Business Packages for the 

"flll-ln-One" Z-89 Microcomputer 

lnseq-80(TM) Business Software Systems 
Industry Standard Osborne Based: Accounts Payable/Receivable, 

General Ledger, Payroll 

S & M Software: Retail Inventory Control, Invoicing, 
Manufacturers Inventory Control, Customer Mail List 

PLUS MANY MORE!! 

All Systems have been Field Tested and are ready for shipment! 

CALL ABOUT OUR NATIONAL DEALER PROGRAM AND JOIN THE BEST 

IN SELLING THE FINEST SOFTWARE ON THE Z-80 MARKET! 

SYSTEMS ALSO OPERATE ON TRS-80 MOD I, MOD II. MOD III 
AND ALTOS MICROCOMPUTERS 



For Further Information, Contact: S & M. Systems, Inc. Or Dial Direct: 1-61 7-373-1599 

P.O. Box 1225 1-617-481-5231 

Haverhill, Massachusetts 01830 



SOFTWARE FOR THE ATARI 800* 



QS FORTH'" by James Albanese. Step into the world of the remarkable FORTH programming language. Writing programs in FORTH is much easier than writing them in assembly 
language, yet FORTH programs run almost as last as machine code and many times faster than BASIC programs. QS FORTH is based on fig-FORTH, the popular model from the FORTH 
Interest Group that has become a standard for microcomputers. QS FORTH is a disk-based system that can be used with up to four disk drives. There are five modules included: 

1. The FORTH KERNEL (The standard fig-forth model customized to run on the Atari computer). 

2. An EXTENSION to the standard vocabulary that contains some handy additional words. 

3. An EDITOR that allows editing source programs (screens) using Atari type editing. 

4. An 10 module that makes I/O operations easy to set up. 

5. An ASSEMBLER that allows defining FORTH words as a series of 6502 assembly language instructions. 

Modules 2-5 may not have to be loaded with the user's application program, allowing for some efficiencies in program overhead. Full error statements (not just numerical codes) are 
printed out, including most disk error statements. QS FORTH requires at least 24K of RAM and at least one disk drive. For the Atari 800 only. On diskette only - $79.95 



TARI TREK" by Fa bio Ehrengruber. Get ready for an exciting trek through space. Your 
mission is to rid the galaxy of Klingon warships, and to accomplish this you must use 
strategy to guide the starship Enterprise around stars, through space storms, and amidst 
enemy fire. Sound and color enliven this action packed version of the traditional trek 
game. Nine levels of play. At the higher levels you play against elapsed time. Written in 
BASIC. Requires 24K on cassette and 32K on diskette. Cassette - $11.95 

Diskette -$14.95 
FASTG AMMON'" by Bob Christiansen. Play backgammon against a talented computer 
opponent that plays very fast, usually deciding on its move in less than a second. Roll your 
own dice or let the computer roll them for you. Adjust the display speed to your liking. 
FASTGAMMON is a good way to learn the game and a good way to improve your skill. A 
special replay feature lets you play a game over using the same dice rolls. Written in 
machine language and requires only 8K of RAM so that it can run on theAtari400* as well 
as the Atari 800. On cassette only - $19.95 

TANK TRAP by Don Ursem. A rampaging tank tries to run you down. You are a combat 
engineer, building concrete barriers in an effort to contain the tank. Use either the key- 
board or an Atari joystick to move your man and build walls. Trap the tank and receive a 
rank based on your performance. Four levels of play, music, color, and sound effects add 
to the excitement of this game, which can be played and is enjoyed by people of all ages. 
Written in BASIC with machine language subroutines. Requires at least 16K of user 
memory on cassette and 32K on diskette. Cassette - $11.95 

Diskette - $14.95 



ASSEMBLER by Gary Shannon. Write your own 6502 machine language programs with 
this inexpensive in-RAM editor/assembler. Use the editor to create and edit your 
assembler source code. Then use the assembler to translate the sourcecode into machine 
language instructions and store the code in memory. Simplecommandsallowyoutosave 
and load the source code to and from cassette tape. You can also save any part of memory 
on tape and load it back into RAM at the same or at a different location. The assembler 
handles all 6502 mnemonics plus 12 pseudo-ops that include video and printer control. A 
very useful feature allows you to view and modify hexadecimal code anywhere in 
memory. Instructions on how to interface machine language subroutines to your BASIC 
programs are included. Requires 16K of user memory and runs on both the Atari 800 and 
the Atari 400*. On cassette only • $24.95 



6502 DISASSEMBLER by Bob Pierce. This neat 8K BASIC program allows you to dis- 
assemble machine code, translating it and listing it in assembly language format on the 
video and on a printer if you have one. 6502 DISASSEMBLER can be used to disassemble 
the operating system ROM, the BASIC cartridge, and machine language programs located 
anywhere in RAM except where the DISASSEMBLER itself resides. Also works as an ASCII 
interpreter, translating machine code into ASCII characters. 6502 DISASSEMBLER re- 
quires only 8K of user memory and runs on both the Atari 800 and the Atari 400. Diskette 
version requires 24K. Cassette - $11.95 

Diskette - $14.95 




QUTILrTY SOFTW7IR€ 

6660 Reseda Blvd., Suite 105, Reseda. CA 91335 



(213)344-6599 



"Indicates trademarks of Alan, Inc. 



WHERE TO GET IT: Call us at (213) 344-6599 forthenameof the Quality Software dealer nearest 
you. If necessary you may order directly from us. MasterCard and Visa cardholders may place 
orders by telephone. Or mail your check or bankcard number lo Quality Software, 6660 Reseda 
Blvd., Suite 105, Reseda, CA 91335. California residents add 6% salestax. SHIPPING CHARGES: 
Within North America orders must include $1.50 for first class shipping and handling. Outside 
North America the charge for airmail shipping and handling is $5.00. Pay in U.S. currency. 



Circle 235 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 313 



8-BIT 
D5 D4 



/* 



^ 



JF 



Q4 Q3 Q2 Ql 
G2 
Gl 

D4 D3 DZ Dl 



IC5 
74173 



N M 

CK 

CLR 



ANALOG | — . 
INPUT I — - >_ 



5K 

attenuator;: 



11 



12 



13 



IK 

_vw- 



l/O PORT 

D3 D2 Dl DO 



i 



CK 



Q4 Q3 Q2 Ql 



IC4 
74173 
CLR 
D4 D3 D2 



11 



12 



13 



rn 



DD DC DB DA 



74193 uu 

CLR 
OC QB OA 



LM311 



m 



ANALOG OUTPUT 
(MUST BE -SO- 

BUFFERED ) 




Figure 1: This schematic diagram shows that a small number of parts (all easily ob- 
tainable) can be used for a fast, flexible converter. Operation is switch-selectable for 
A/D or D/A modes; conversion takes less than 13 /ts in A/D mode, and is almost in- 
stantaneous in D/A mode. Speed of conversion is set by clock frequency and propaga- 
tion delays in the integrated circuits used. The concept is easily expandable to 12 or 16 
bits, if necessary. 



Equation 1 






















Output 


Voltage = 


E7 + E6 + E5 + E4 


+ E3 + E2 + 


El 


+ 


EO 






2 


4 


8 


16 


32 


64 


128 




256 



buy twenty-five resistors of the same 
value from the same batch, then use 
two resistors in series for each 2R leg. 
In the D/A conversion mode, the out- 
put, which may be taken from point 
A, must be buffered, since the 
counter outputs are of the low-power 
type. 

The voltage comparator (IC7) com- 
pares the analog input signal to the 
output voltage of the resistance lad- 
der. Since the counter increments 
from zero, the ladder output should 
start out lower than the analog signal. 
When the ladder output level is 



greater than the analog signal, the 
comparator senses the change and 
provides a strobe to latch the counter 
values into IC4 and IC5. A 5 k-ohm 
potentiometer may be included to at- 
tenuate input signals greater than 5 V. 

The comparator is an LM311, 
which was chosen because it requires 
only a single-ended power supply. 
This simplifies construction con- 
siderably. 

The output latches (IC4 and IC5) 
are a pair of 74123 quad-D flip-flops. 
They were chosen because of their 
low drive requirements and their 



1 



DD DC DB 



CARRY 



IC2 



74193 

CLR 

QD QC QB QA 




IC1 
K1100A 



Number 


Type 


+ 5V 


GND 


IC1 


K1100A 


1 


2 


IC2 


74193 


16 


8 


IC3 


74193 


16 


8 


IC4 


74173 


16 


8 


IC5 


74173 


16 


8 


IC6 


7404 


14 


7 


IC7 


LM311 


8 


1,4 



three-state outputs. The output pins 
may be connected to the parallel in- 
puts of the counter circuit, and their 
three-state ability allows the use of 
one port for both input D/A and out- 
put A/D (analog-to-digital) opera- 
tion. 

Operation 

A complete A/D conversion cycle 
goes as follows (refer to figure 2): 



The cycle starts as the counter 
goes through hexadecimal 00. 
The voltage at point A is at zero 
and the output latch contains 
the result of the last conversion 
cycle. 

The counter increments toward 
hexadecimal FF, and at some 



314 Februaiy 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



32 K BYTE MEMORY 

RELIABLE AND COST EFFECTIVE RAM FOR 
6502 6 6800 BASED MICROCOMPUTERS 



AIM 65-*KIM*SYM 

PETS44-BUS 



. PLUG COMPATIBLE WITH THE AIM-65/SYM EXPANSION 
CONNECTOR 'BY USING A RIGHT ANGLE CONNECTOR 
(SUPPLIED) MOUNTED ON THE BACK OF THE MEMORY 
BOARD. 

• MEMORY BOARD EDGE CONNECTOR PLUGS INTO THE 
6800 S 44 BUS. 

• CONNECTS TO PET OR KIM USING AN ADAPTOR CABLE. 
. RELIABLE-DYNAMIC RAM WITH ON BOARD INVISIBLE 

REFRESH-LOOKS LIKE STATIC MEMORY BUT AT 
LOWER COST AND A FRACTION OF THE POWER 
REQUIRED FOR STATIC BOARDS. 

• USES -5V ONLY. SUPPLIED FROM HOST COMPUTER. 

• FULL DOCUMENTATION. ASSEMBLED AND TESTED 
BOARDS ARE GUARANTEED FOR ONE YEAR AND 
PURCHASE PRICE IS FULLY REFUNDABLE IF BOARD IS 
RETURNED UNDAMAGED WITHIN 14 DAYS. 

ASSEMBLED WITH 32K RAM $395 00 

8 WITH 16K RAM $339.00 

TESTED WITHOUT RAM CHIPS $279.00 

HARD TO GET PARTS (NO RAM CHIPS) 

WITH BOARD AND MANUAL $109.00 

BARE BOARD & MANUAL S49.00 



PET INTERFACE KIT-CONNECTS THE 32K RAM BOARDTO 
A 4K OR 8K PET. CONTAINS: INTERFACE CABLE. BOARD 
STANDOFFS, POWER SUPPLY MODIFICATION KIT AND 
COMPLETE INSTRUCTIONS $49.00 



U.S. PRICES ONLY 



i.^a^iT^iiJij-L iiy - "a32sr-: • 



ii*S=4i(K^^^^^ 




Circle 236 on Inquiry card. 

16K MEMORY 
EXPANSION KIT 



ONLY 



$58 



FOR APPLE, TRS-BO KEYBOARD, 
EXIDY, AND ALL OTHER 1 BK 
DYNAMIC SYSTEMS USING 
MK4116-3 OR EQUIVALENT 
DEVICES. 

• 200 NSEC ACCESS, 375 NSEC 
CYCLE 

• BURNED-IN AND FULLY 
TESTED 

• 1 YR. PARTS REPLACEMENT 
GUARANTEE 

• QTY. DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE 



ALL ASSEMBLED BOARDS AND 
MEMORY CHIPS CARRY A FULL ONE 
YEAR REPLACEMENT WARRANTY 



COmPUTER DEVICES 

1230 W.COUinS AVE. 

ORflDGE, Cfl 92668 

(714)633-7280 



oppk II phi/ 

With 48Kof 
memory! 

$1042°° 

With thepurchase of 

the APPLE II / 

select from the helow 
SPECIAL PRICING 

/ 
Base 2 tlnntei 5 599' 
Disktl*»/conl....5B5' 

Diskll 475' 

Ser.PnnteiCd... 179' 

SupFfMod 23°° 

3way l/OSelect .. 33°° 
Video 100 12"... "9" 
FtrmWilreCard 149°° 
UHFIoRCAC.ible 5°° 



74LS00 

74LS02 

74LS03 

74LS04 

74LS06 

74LS09 

70LS10 

74LS20 

74LS21 

74LS22 

74LS26 

74LS27 

74LS30 

74LS32 

74LS3B 

74LS42 

74LS48 

74LS51 

74LS54 

74LS74 

74LS75 

74LS83 

74LS85 

74LSB6 

74LS90 

74LS93 

74LS107 

74LS112 

74LS113 

74LS122 

74LS123 

74LS126 

74LS136 

74LS151 

74LS153 




ll/appkllplu/ 

With60Kof 
memory! 

$1259°° 

■ Switch from "APPLESOFT"to 

"INTEGER BASIC" and back again. 

■ With DiscOperating System 
DOS 3.3 run PASCAL program 
withoutneedfora PASCAL card. 



COLOR 




Ow^/monitor 13 



26 


74LS155 


115 


26 


74LS158 


75 


26 


74LS160 


95 


76 


74LS161 


R6 


?R 


74LS162 


95 


26 


74LS163 


160 


26 


74LS164 


66 


26 


74LS165 


66 


28 


74LS170 


1 75 


26 


74LS174 


75 


49 


74LS175 


76 


26 


74LS190 


75 


,?fl 


74LS193 


96 


.1? 


74LS195 


96 


3? 


74LS196 


a5 


65 


74LS221 


140 


78 


74LS240 


165 


25 


74LS241 


165 


35 


74LS243 


146 


.TB 


74LS244 


145 


60 


74LS245 


2 25 


44 


74LS253 


95 


95 


74LS257 


96 


95 


74LS258 


95 


69 


74LS259 


?R5 


69 


74LS279 


44 


45 


74LS2B3 


ino 


38 


74LS293 


1R6 


48 


74LS298 


120 


4« 


74LS366 


96 


95 


74LS367 


56 


69 


74LS36B 


55 


69 


74LS373 


1.39 


44 


74LS374 


139 


44 


74LS386 


65 



EPROMS 
2708 IkxB 5.95 
8 FOR 40.00 
2716 2k x 8 9.95 
single ps 8 FOR 80.00 
2732 4k x 8 24.95 
2716 2k x 8 6.95 
triple ps 



APPLE EXPANSION Kll| 
16K MemoryAddOn 



appk dodt/cakndai 

s 124 95 

,hotirs,day(*v**?k 



On board batteries with one year life. 

Uses MSM5B32-crystal controlled. 

California Computer Sntems 



MISCELLANEOUS 



8038C 

NE555V 

7905 . 

7908 '•-. 

7915 

7918 

7805 

7806 

7808 . 

7812- 

MC1330AIP 

MC1350P 

MC1358P 

LM380N 

NE565N 

MC1458P 

IS410 sen 

IT410 TP.IAC 



s 



'17" p^ 



LOGIC 

KOBE 

KIT 



BUY FIVE OR MORE FOR 



.516.95 each 



WE CARRY 



1.60 
1.15 
1.50 
1.75 
1 25 
.50 
.95 
.95 



COflCORD 

COfflPUTCR 

components 



APPIE inTCRPOCE CARD! 

CtnTTtOftfCiPflHmR j i» 

KXTWnuflKflTIOm <"/cwwi.Icobk 9W 
BUM II comnouin <t.». fc u iw 

lOTKC * BMK PUtmUMM 193 

RPPUfOfT P1MTM1MU W 

pflicmutoGuecE packags w» 

PfMMICI PMflTER ITS 

PROTOTWOG/HOWV M 

HIHM RKNM IM 



s/oo 

/tit static MIMMY It *2*t 

32K static memttr n. *ft 

i*X tTHAMICMOMtYia. S3 J 

*ti*tx*ms n Mr np 

tn emir lit 

MAItfMAAW/Kt MM. 37f 

BISK CMTMtUf* H. J« 



SWITCHES 



2114 200ns 
2114L 30Ons 
2114L 20Ons 
4116 300ns 
4116 200ns 



350 
3.75 
4.25 
4.95 
5.45 



1971 SOUTH STATE COLLEGE 

ANAHEIM, CALIF. 92806 

VISA MASTERCHARGE MINIMUM ORDER •10.00 

CHECK OR MO. ^W- ,*\^v-«- -»-*-*_ ADD«1.50F0RFRT.0N 

no cod r 714j937'0637 order s under »so. 



SN7400N 
SN7402N 
SN7404N 
SN7408N 
SN7410N 
SN7412N 
SN7413N 
SN7414N 
SN7416N 
SN7417N 
SN7423N 
SN7425N 
SN7430N 
SN7437N 
SN7438N 



.20 SN7440N 
.22 SN7442N 
.22 SN7443N 
.24 SN7445N 
.22 SN7451N 
.28 SN7454N 
.35 SN7474N 
49 SN7475N 
29 SN7482N 
.29 SN7492N 
.28 SN7493N 
.25 SN7495N 
.23 SN7496N 
29 SN74122N 
24 SN74136N 



22 SN74141N 

.57 SN74151N 

78 SN74153N 

.78 SN74154N 

20 SN74155N 

20 SN74157N 

32 SN74160N 

.32 SN74161N 

1.05 SN74163N 

.50 SN74164N 

.48 SN74165N 

.60 SN74174N 

.70 SN74175N 

.39 SN741BON 

.95 SN74181N 



.69 
.65 
.65 
1.25 

80 
.69 
95 
65 
85 
.87 
.87 
.95 
69 
.75 
1.15 



MSM5832 



:essor #45 



REAL-TIME CLOCK 



TRS80 
'4395 

KIT CONTAINS 
DIP SWITCHES 
ANDDETAILEO 
INSTRUCTIONS 




No"Glitches", Surges 
Or Interference 

THE MP0TT7 TURNS * 
ORDINARY OUTLET II ~ 
A CONTROLLED FILTE 
POWER SOURCE FOP. UP 
TO EIGHT DEVICES 



Circle 237 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 315 



ANALOG INPUT 
POINT A 

COMPARATOR OUT 
DATA OUT 



COUNTER BITS 0-7 f 




Figure 2: This timing diagram shows that, when the reference voltage (point A) has 
reached the level of the analog-input signal, the comparator toggles to strobe the 74173 
latches. Data in the latches remains valid until the comparator toggles again. 



point the voltage at point A will 
be equal to the analog input 
voltage. At this time, the com- 
parator will drive the clock in- 
put (pin 7) to the latches high. 
The rising edge of the pulse will 
cause the latches to retain the 
state of the counters at that 
time. 

This data is retained until the 
next conversion is finished. 



In the A/D mode, the data is ap- 
plied to the counter inputs with the 
load pin (pin 11) grounded. This feeds 
the digital information directly to the 
resistance ladder, so conversion is im- 
mediate. 

Construction 

As long as component leads are 
kept short, no special construction 
practices are required. I believe that 



wire-wrap is the best way to build 
such projects. Due to the high speed 
of the circuit, it is important to 
bypass each integrated circuit with a 
0.1 (i? capacitor. I soldered the 
bypass capacitors directly to the back 
of the sockets. Any component 
failures in the bypass network will 
show up as erratic operation (due to 
noise). 

Application 

The A/D operation of the circuit is 
very simple. Connect the circuit to an 
8-bit I/O (input/output) port; when 
you want a measurement, simply 
read the value that appears at the 
port. Operation is similar in the D/A 
mode; simply write data to the port 
(with the select switch set to D/A). 
The analog input signal may range 
from zero to about 4.5 V (or greater 
with the optional attenuator). Analog 
outputs have the same range, unless 
you take the trouble to install a buffer 
amplifier. 

Of course, the concept is expand- 
able; 12-bit and 16-bit converters are 
easily possible with a few more com- 
ponents, although conversion times 
will be longer. ■ 



THE FIRST TRS-80® COMPATIBLE COMPUTER 
WITH HIGH DENSITY COLOR GRAPHICS ! 




LNW80 



LNW RESEARCH introduces the LNW80 , a high performance color computer, 
compatible with the TPS-80™ Model I. The fully integrated LNW80 is 
a soph is ticnted and versatile microcomputer with the following powerful 
features . 

COMPATIBILITY 

Hardware and software compatible to the Radio Shack TRS-80™ flodel I 
compute r, provides the widest software base of any microcomputer, 
cassette intcrfacr*; sxpansion bus 

DISPLAY 

quality upper and lower case display. 

Two modes of color graphics, high resolution graphics, 384 x 192 in 
eiynt colors - higher density than the Apple II'. Low density color 
yrapjiics of 128 x 192 are also available in eight colors. 

iliijii resolution - black and white graphics - of 3 8 A x 192 mixed with 
text and TRS-80™ standard graphics. 
Reverse video . composite video RF ou tpu t. 

PERFORMANCE 

The LNWHO utilizes the fast Z-80A microprocessor which executes at a 
speed of 4 MHZ - over twice the speed of the TRS-80™ Model I. 



PC BOARD 



$89.95 



EXTERNAL DATA SEPERATOR 



LNW 
RESEARCH 



Ask about our : Keyboard 



N 



caDlnel 
U*d«x 
VIDCO 100-110 



\ 



W 



LNW RESEARCH 3163-E AIRWAY AVE COSTA MESA CA 92628 714-552-6948 



ORDERING INFORMATION 



CA raiidtnli addiXi. 



SYSTEM 
EXPANSION 

AT 

££Q.M l pc BOARD * 1 

vO.7 LusermanualJ 

- SERIAL RS232C/20mA I/O 

- FLOPPY CONTROLLER 

• 32K BYTES MEMORY 

• PARALLEL PRINTER PORT 

- DUAL CASSETTE PORT 

> REAL-TIME CLOCK 

> SCREEN PRINTER BUS 
ONBOARD POWER SUPPLY 
SOFTWARE COMPATIBLE 
SOLOER MASK, SILK SCREEN 



316 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 238 on inquiry card. 



Why Do Professionals Prefer 



BECAUSE 

• Unique software • Technical support • Quick 
delivery • Established company • Release 2 
CP/M 3 (some packages under UNIX J and TRSOOS') 

• Quality software • In-house expertise • Fast 
response • User orientation • Competitive prices 

• Customer service • Verbatim 6 media • Onyx 
hardware (CP/M and UNIX versions). 



Business 
Medical 
Real Estate 
Computer Systems 




BECAUSE 

Unique swift routing Cybernetics response system 
gives you no-nonsense technical answers that save 
you time. Call: (714) 848-1922. 




• NEW RM/COBOL 1 applications: 

• Order Entry/Inventory • Receivables • Payables • 
General Ledger • Financial Modeling • Client Account- 
ing— and more on the way! 

• NEW CBASIC2 3 applications: 

• REAP (Real Estate Acquisition Programs). 



Software from Cybernetics? 



RM/COBOL— The new standard for microcomputer COBOL!! The only COBOL 
for CP/M (also on TRSDOS & UNIX) with alternate keys (multi-key ISAM), CRT 
screen handling, Interactive debug, and the most useful Level 2 features. Compat- 
ible with RSCOBOL 5 — but runs faster. 



TRS-80', Model II CP/M— The fastest Mod II CP/M with the most features. Out- 
standing teaching documentation for newcomers to CP/M, multiple CRT emula- 
tion, down loading package, support for CORVUS 10 Mb hard disk. Many addi- 
tional user-oriented features. 



Plus existing CBASIC2 packages: 

APH 7 (Automated Patient History) 

Osborne & Assoc —Payroll • Payables/Receivables 
• General Ledger 

NAD" (Name and Address) 

PMS (Property Management System) 
Inquire tor details 

Trademarks of. 'Ryan-McFarland Corp., 'Compiler Systems, Inc., 'Digital Research, "Bel 
Telephone Laboratories, Inc.. *Tandy Corp., "Verbatim, Inc. 'Cybernetics. Inc.. B Struc 
lured Systems Group. Inc.. 'Small Business Applications, Inc. 



And system software packages: 
MAGIC WAND' Editing/Word Processing 
CBASIC2 Compiler BASIC 
QSOPT" Soft Merge Package 




Distributed in U K. by: 

Microcomputer Applications Ltd 

Riverside Court, Caversham. Reading, England 

TEL: (0734) 470425 



8041 Newman Ave., Suite 20B 
Huntington Beach, CA 92647 
(714) 848-1922 




The world-famous SHIVA'" Multi-User Real-Time Multi-Tasking Virtual Operating System with its unique VIRTUAL-PERSONALITY'" disk-resident 
library of interface routines and Virtual R.A.M. mapping is now available in two versions: SHIVA" 1.2 for 8-bit C.P.U.'s and SHIVA'" 1.6 for 16-bit 
processors. SHIVA'" 1 .2 pioneered the high-powered Virtual Operating System (VOS) for microprocessors with its user-reconfigurable Virtual R.A.M. 
assignment for up to 1 6-users or real-time tasks. Now SHIVA'" 1 .6 continues Omega Researches commitment to non-obsolescence and system 
superiority by extending SHIVA™ into the 1 6-bit world of the 80's. SHIVA'" 1 .6 syntax is upward-compatible with SHIVA'" 1 .2, allowing SHIVA'" users to 
recompile SHIVA'" 1 .2 programs to run under SHIVA" 1 .6 easily, so users may purchase SHIVA" 1 .2 now. and move up to a 1 6 bit processor later as 
their needs dictate with no fear of "software obsolescence." SHIVA" 1 .6 is upward compatible with CP/M or CDOS files and programs through its 
VIRTUAL-PERSONALITY" disk-resident subroutines, supports hard disks as well as single or double-density floppies, features Logon and password 
protection, and features executive shell commands similar to UNIX in structure and versatility. SHIVA'" interfaces currently to M icrosoft Basic, Cobol. 
and Fortran; C; Forth; UCSD Pascal Programs; Pascal/M; CBASIC-2; APL; ALGOL-60; LISP; PL/I; MAC; and new interfaces are continually in 
development to keep SHIVA'" users State-of-the-Art. 

SHIVA" 1 .2 is available for 8080. 8085, 6800, 6502, and Z80-BASED SYSTEMS INCLUDING CROMEMCO, NORTHSTAR, VECTOR GRAPHIC. SWTP, 
DIGITAL GROUP, ALTOS. IMS, APPLE II, ITHACA INTERSYSTEMS, and TELETEK disk controllers. 6809 C.P.U. version is in development. 

SHIVA'" 1 .6 is available for 8086/8088/ and Z8000-2 based systems, with versions in development for 68000 based systems. 

Both SHIVA" versions 1.2 and 1 .6 provide full disk utilities for all users. SHIVA'" 1 .6 upgrades are available to registered SHIVA" 1 .2 users within one 
year of purchase of SHIVA" 1 .2 for half the current list price. SHIVA™ — The State-of-the-Art in microprocessor operating systems. 



SHIVA'" 1.2 




R.A.M. addressing to 1.048 megabytes on a 




Z80A-based system 




Minimum system R.A.M. (single user): 
Additional R.A.M. per user: 


4K 


2K 


Maximum tt of users or tasks: 


16 


Maximum tf of physical and logical drives; 


128 


R.A.M. Bank capacity: 


16-64K 


Banks (1.048 


megabytes) 
1400.00 


System prices: 



SHIVA'" 1.6 






R.A.M. addressing to 1 28 megabytes on a . 




■ ■ 


Z80O0-2 system 






Minimum system R.A.M. (single user) 
Additional R.A.M. per user: 




4K 




2K 


Maximum # of users or tasks: 




16 


Maximum U of physical and Logical drive: 




256 


R.A.M. Bank Capacity: 




16-8 


megabyte banks 


(128 


megabytes) 


System prices: 




$650.00 



Complete Documentation Included: Documentation available separately for S50.00. 
Signed license agreement must be returned prior to all shipments. 



(Applicable to later purchase of SHIVA" system) 




CP/M is a trademark of Digital Research • CDOS is a trademark of Cromemco, Inc. • UNIX is a trademark of Bell Laboratories 
SHIVA'", VIRTUAL-PERSONALITY' - , and OMEGA RESEARCH™ are trademarks of OMEGA RESEARCH'". 



P.O. Box 479, Linden, Ca. 95236 (209) 334-6666 



9 am to 5 pm 
Mon. - Frl. 



Circle 239 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 19B1 317 



Turn Your COSMAC VIP 
into a Frequency Counter 



Andrew Modla 

5 Derby PI 

Newtown PA 18940 



Many electronic construction projects include a 
decade-frequency counter somewhere in their hardware. 
For example, I have seen decade-frequency counters in 
pH meters, digital voltmeters, capacitance meters, 
tachometers, digital thermometers, camera shutter-speed 
meters, event counters, etc. This article describes a fre- 
quency counter that is somewhere else — in software. This 
application is an example of the elimination of hardware 
by using software techniques. No additional hardware is 
required. Your microcomputer can replace decade- 
counter hardware in each of the construction projects 
named above. 

I programmed my RCA COSMAC VIP microcom- 
puter to perform as a general-purpose, audio-range 





( FREQUENCY^ 
^COUNTER J 




1 




9 






ERASE DISPLAY 










CALL MACHINE 
LANGUAGE 
COUNTING 
PROGRAM 










DISPLAY 
5 DIGITS 










WAIT 2 SECONDS 









Figure 1: General flowchart for a program that enables a 
microcomputer to act as a frequency counter. 

318 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



decade-frequency counter. The program will count in the 
1 to 11,004 Hz range. It checks the transitions of the 
COSMAC 1802 microprocessor EF4 input flag for one 
second. The binary count taken is then converted to a 
decimal value for display on the video monitor. After 
two seconds to show the count, the program begins to 
count again. 

The program derives its accuracy from the crystal 
clock that runs the microprocessor. Timed program loops 
check the input line at precise intervals to obtain a count. 
Figure 1 shows the flowchart of the program. The pro- 
gram is shown in listing 1. It consists of a COSMAC VIP 
CHIP-8 interpretive-code main program for control and 
display, and an RCA CDP1802 machine-language sub- 
routine to perform the counting function. 

One of the parameters passed to the machine-language 
subroutine is a time parameter that, when incremented to 
zero, gives a precise 1-second interval used in counting. 
The COSMAC VIP has a 3.521280 MHz crystal. If you 
use a different crystal, the following formula will provide 
a number that, when subtracted from 65,536, will count 
for one second: 



T = 



number of clock 
cycles in 1 second 

number of clock 

cycles to execute 

looping instructions 



10 6 clock cycles (1 second) 

s\ : A 



2 machine 
8 clock cycles cycles 

machine cycle instruction 



F X 10 6 



X (5 instructions) 



160 



Circle 240 on inquiry card. 



Quiet Designs 



Preformatted Disks: 

Compatible with Lanier 'No Problem', 
Lanier 90/100, Micom 2000/2001, 
A.M. 425, C.P.T. 6000/8000, Canon 

Standard Disks 

For all systems using unformatted disks 

Head Cleaning Kits 

Kits for 5'/4" and 8" drives 



Flip-Sort™ 

Durable, Dust Proof, Desk Top Disk Storage 
and Retrieval System. 





*W^ 




Quiet Designs 



Quiet Designs Inc. 

1330 W. Robinhood Dr., 

Suite F 

Stockton, CA 95207 

Ph.(209)957-8631 

Quiet Designs Inc. 
473 Macara #706 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086 
Ph.(408)739-5215 



Quiet Designs of California 
1030 W. Maude #512 
Sunnyvale, CA 94086 
Ph. (408) 730-0170 

Quiet Designs International 
5940 F #2 Road 
Richmond, British Columbia, 
Canada V7C 4R9 
Ph. (604) 273-9710 




Personal Computing 

Festival 

now a part of the 
National Computer Conference '8! 

May 4-7, 1981 

McCormick Place 

Chicaqo, Illinois 



Let the convenience, fascination and power 
of computers bring new dimensions to your 
personal life. Over 30 informative sessions 
at the Personal Computing Festival offer 
a remarkable view of the many ways 
w^ you can put computers to work for 
W you. Hands-on exhibits give you a 

chance to test the capabilities 
of equipment designed for 
•^ use in your home, office, 
fc or classroom as the PCF 
joins NCC '8 1 in the 
main exhibit area for the first time. 
Learn how computers can 
develop an investment portfolio or 
compose music; create a picture or 
calculate commissions on sales; con- 
trol your furnace or do your home- 
work. See applications you never 
thought of in special demonstra- 
tion area. Most important 
of all — find out how 
computers can make life 
better for you — 
personally! 

Register for one full day for S 1 0.00 (includes 
Personal Computing Digest) — or attend the full three- 
day session for S 30.00. |lf you prefer, register for the 
full NCC '8 1 session — S60 fee includes PCF registration. 
For discount air fares, air- 
line reservations, hotel and 
show information or to pre- 
register CALL TOLL FREE 
800-556-6882 



aluips 



A conference within a conference sponsored by the 
American Federation of Information Processing Societies, Inc. 



BYTE February 1981 319 



ADDRES 


S CODE 


COMMENTS 


0200 


00E0 


ERASE DISPLAY 


0202 


A3FB 


I = ADDR OF 5-BYTE DECIMAL-CONVER- 
SION AREA 


0204 


0300 


CALL MACHINE-LANGUAGE COUNT- 
ING PROGRAM 


0206 


AA08 


TIME PARAMETER 


0208 


6600 


V6 = 00 


020A 


6410 


V4 = 10 


020C 


6510 


V5=10 


020E 


A3FB 


I = ADDR OF 5-BYTE DECIMAL-CONVER- 
SION AREA 


0210 


F61E 


I = I + V6 SET I TO DIGIT ADDRESS 


0212 


F065 


V0:V0 = MI V0 CONTAINS DECIMAL 
DIGIT 


0214 


F029 


I = VO(LSDP) GET DIGIT PATTERN ADDR 


0216 


D455 


DISPLAY DIGIT USING V4 AND V5 


0218 


7405 


V4 + 05 NEXT HORZ TV DIGIT LOCATION 


021A 


7601 


V6 + 01 NEXT DIGIT 


021C 


3605 


SKIP IF V6 = 5 


021E 


120E 


GO TO 20E 


0220 


6878 


V8 = 78 


0222 


F815 


SET TIMER FROM V8 


0224 


F807 


GET TIMER INTO V8 


0226 


3800 


SKIP IF V8 = 00 


0228 


1224 


GO TO 224 


022A 


1200 


GO TO 200 



Listing 1: The main frequency-counter program for the RCA 
COSMAC VIP microcomputer. The program is written in 
CHIPS interpretive code. 



where F is the crystal frequency in MHz. For F = 
3.521280, T has the value 22,008. Since the program 
counts up to zero, the count used in the program is 
decimal 65,536 — 22,008 = 43,528, or hexadecimal 
AA08. Note that the VIP microcomputer halves F by us- 
ing a flip-flop. The maximum frequency that can be 
counted by the program is T/2 or 11,004 Hz using the 
above crystal frequency. This assumes no half-cycle of 
the signal being measured is shorter than five instruction 
executions, or 45.438 /is. 

The counting subroutine uses a five-instruction loop 
for counting in both the high and low halves of a cycle. 
Every five instructions, the time-parameter count is in- 
cremented by 1. When the time parameter becomes zero 

Text continued on page 323 



^COUNTING A 
^SUBROUTINE J 



SET COUNT REGISTER 
F TO ZERO 



LOAD REGISTER E 
WITH TIME 
PARAMETER COUNT 



TURN OFF 
TV DISPLAY 



I THIS STEP PREVENTS I 
I DISPLAY PROGRAM 
■~1 INTERRUPTS 

I I 




( RETURN J 



Figure 2 : Flowchart for the frequency-counting program written for the CDP1802 microprocessor. The program can be adapted to 
work with almost any microprocessor. 



320 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Listing 2: The counting subroutine for the frequency-counter program written for the RCA COSMAC VIP microcomputer. The sub- 
routine is written in CDP1802 microprocessor code and corresponds to the flowcharts in figures 2 and 3. 



Hexadecimal 
Address 



0300 
0302 
0303 



0304 
0305 
0306 
0307 
0308 
0309 
030A 

030B 
030D 
030E 
030F 
0310 
0312 

0314 
0315 
0316 
0317 
0319 

031B 
031 D 
031E 
031F 
0320 
0322 

0324 



Hexadecimal 
Code 



F800 
BF 

AF 



45 

BE 

45 

AE 

E2 

61 

22 

3714 

9E 

IE 

9E 

3A0B 

3029 

IF 

IE 

9E 

3A1B 

3029 

3F24 

9E 

IE 

9E 

3A1B 

3029 

9E 



Instruction 
Label Mnemonic Operand Comment 

•COUNTING PROGRAM 

•REGISTER A CONTAINS ADDRESS OF FIVE-BYTE AREA 

•SET EVENT COUNTER TO ZERO (REGISTER F) 

F COUNT LDI 

PHI F 

PLO F 

•SET TIME COUNTER (REGISTER E) TO PARAMETER 
•TIME COUNTER VALUE FOLLOWS SUBROUTINE CALL 



LDA 

PHI 

LDA 

PLO 

SEX 

OUT 

DEC 

'START COUNTING 

MAIN B4 

GHI 
INC 
GHI 
BNZ 
B 

*EF FLAG 1 

ON INC 

INC 
GHI 
BNZ 
B 

•WAIT FOR EF 

WZERO BN4 

GHI 
INC 
GHI 
BNZ 
B 

*EF FLAG 

OFF GHI 



5 
E 
5 
E 
2 
1 
2 

ON 

E 

E 

E 

MAIN 

CONVD 

F 

E 

E 

WZERO 

CONVD 

OFF 

E 

E 

E 

WZERO 

CONVD 



TURN OFF TV DISPLAY 



BRANCH IF EF=1 
DUMMY INST 



ADD 1 TO EVENT COUNTER 



BRANCH IFEF = 
DUMMY INST 



DUMMY INST Listing 2 continued on page 322 



RACET SORTS — RACET UTILITIES — RACET computes — RACET SORTS — RACET UTILITIES — RACET computes — RACET SORTS - RACET UTILITI ES - RACET computes - 



HARD DISK MULTIPLEXOR 

FORTHETRS-80*Modll 

NOW YOU CAN HAVE THAT LARGE COMMON DATA BASE!! 

• Allows up to 4 Mod IPs to connect to a single controller — up to 4 hard disk 
drives per controller. Users may access the same tile simultaneously (first-come 
first-served). 

• Uses Cameo controller and standard 10-megabyte cartridge (hard) disk drives 
along with RACET Hard/Soft Disk System (HSD) software. 

• Access times 3 to 8 times faster than floppy. Mixed floppy/hard disk operation 
supported. 

• Compatible with your existing TRSD0S programs -*■ you need only change 
filenames! All BASIC statements are identical. 

• A single file may be as large as one disk. Alternate mode allows 24-million 
byte record range. Directory expandable to handle thousands of files. 

• Includes special utilities — XC0PY for backup and copies, XPURGE for multiple 
deletions, DCS directory catalog system, and Hard Disk Superzap. FORMAT 
utility includes options for specifying sectors/gran, platters/drive, logical 
disk siz6 6tc 

HARD DISK DRIVES CONTROLLER $5995 RACET HSD Software $400 

Call for multiuser pricing. Dealers call for OEM pricing. 

BASIC LINK FACILITY 'BLINK' $25 Mod I, $50 Mod II 

Link from one BASIC program to another saving all variables! The new program 
can be smaller or larger than the original program in memory. The chained program 
may either replace the original program, or can be merged by statement number. 
The statement number where the chained program execution is to begin may be 
specified! (Mod I Min 32K 1-disk) 

INFINITE BASIC (Mod I Tape or Disk) $49.95 

Extends Level II BASIC with complete MATRIX functions and 50 more string 
functions. Includes RACET machine language sorts! Sort 1000 elements in 9 
seconds!! Select only functions you want to optimize memory usage. 

INFINITE BUSINESS (Requires Infinite BASIC) $29.95 

Complete printer pagination controls — auto headers, footers, page numbers. 
Packed decimal arithmetic — 127 digit accuracy +, -, *, /. Binary search 
of sorted and unsorted arrays. Hash codes. 



BASIC CROSS REFERENCE UTILITY (Mod II 64K) $50.00 

SEEK and FIND functions for Variables, Line Numbers, Strings, Keywords. 'All' 
options available for line numbers and variables. Load from BASIC — Call with 
'CTRL'R. Output to screen or printer! 

0SM $75.00 Mod I, $150.00 Mod II 

Disk Sort/Merge for RANDOM files. All machine language stand-alone package for 
sorting speed. Establish sort specification in simple BASIC command File. Execute 
ifom DOS. Only operator action to sort is to change diskettes when requested! 
Handles multiple diskette files! Super fast sort times — improved disk I/O times 
make this the fastest Disk Sort/Merge available on Mod I or Mod II. 

(Mod I Min 32K 2-drive system. Mod II 64K 1 -drive) 
UTILITY PACKAGE (Mod II 64K) $150.00 

Important enhancements to the Mod II. The file recovery capabilities alone will pay 
for the package in even one application! Fully documented in 124 page manual! 
XHIT, XGAT, XCOPY and SUPERZAP are used to reconstruct or recover date from 
bad diskettes! XCOPY provides multi-file copies, 'Wild-card' mask select, absolute 
sector mode and other features. SUPERZAP allows examine/change any sector on 
diskette include track-0, and absolute disk backup/copy with I/O recovery. DCS 
builds consolidated directories from multiple diskettes into a single display or 
listing sorted by disk name or file name plus more. Change Disk ID with DISKID. 
XCREATE preallocates files and sets 'LOF' to end to speed disk accesses. DEBUGII 
adds single step, trace, subroutine calling, program looping, dynamic disassembly 
and more!! 

DEVELOPMENT PACKAGE (Mod II 64K) $1 25.00 

Includes RACET machine language SUPERZAP, Apparat Disassembler, and Model 
II interface to the Microsoft 'Editor Assembler Plus' software package including 
uploading services and patches for Disk I/O. Purchase price includes complete 
copy of Editor Assembler + and documentation for Mod I. Assemble directly into 
memory, MACRO facility, save all or portions of source to disk, dynamic debug 
facility (ZBUG), extended editor commands. 

COMPROC (Mod I — Disk only) $19.95 

Command Processor. Auto your disk to perform any sequence of instructions that 
you can give from the keyboard. DIR, FREE, pause, wait for user input, BASIC, No. 
of FILES and MEM SIZE, RUN program, respond to input statements, BREAK, 
return to DOS, etc. Includes lowercase driver, debounce, screenprint! 



CHECK, VISA, M/C C.O.D., PURCHASE ORDER 
TELEPHONE 0R0ERS ACCEPTEO (714] 637-5016 



•TRS-80 IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK 
Or TANDY CORPORATION 



RACET SORTS - RACET UTILITIES — RACET computes — RACET SORTS — RACET UTILITIES — RACET computes • 



£- RACET COMPUTES -^ 

702 Palmdale, Orange, C A 92665 

■ RACET SORTS — RACET UTILITIES — RACET compu tes - 



Circle 241 on inquiry card. 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 321 



Listing 2 continued: 




0325 


IE 


0326 


9E 


0327 


3A0B 


0329 


F805 


032B 


A7 


032C 


F803 


032E 


BC 


032F 


F88F 


0331 


AC 


0332 


9F 


0333 


5C 


0334 


1C 


0335 


8F 


0336 


5C 


0337 


1C 


0338 


EC 


0339 


F8 00 


033B 


AD 


033C 


9F 


033D 


BE 


033E 


8F 


033F 


AE 


0340 


8E 


0341 


F7 


0342 


AE 


0343 


1C 


0344 


9E 


0345 


77 


0346 


BE 


0347 


2C 


0348 


3B 51 


034A 


ID 


034B 


9E 


034C 


BF 


034D 


8E 


034E 


AF 


034F 


30 40 


0351 


8D 


0352 


5A 


0353 


1A 


0354 


1C 


0355 


1C 


0356 


27 


0357 


87 


0358 


3A39 


035A 


E2 


035B 


69 


035C 


D4 


0391 





INC 

GHI 

BNZ 
•CONVERT BINARY TO DECIMAL 
"FIVE-BYTE AREA FOR STORING 
CONVD LDI 

PLO 

LDI 

PHI 

LDI 

PLO 

GHI 

STR 

INC 

GLO 

STR 

INC 

SEX 
ZCNT LDI 

PLO 

GHI 

PHI 

GLO 

PLO 
SUBREG GLO 

SM 

PLO 

INC 

GHI 

SMB 

PHI 

DEC 

BNF 

INC 

GHI 

PHI 

GLO 

PLO 

B 
BORROW GLO 

STR 

INC 

INC 

INC 

DEC 

GLO 

BNZ 

SEX 

INP 

SEP 
TABLE § 1027 

i E803 

§ 6400 

§ 0A00 

§ 0100 



E 

E 

MAIN 

(VALUE IN REGISTER F) 

DECIMAL NUMBER IN REGISTER A 



5 

7 

03 

C 

8F 

C 

F 

C 

C 

F 

C 

C 

C 



D 

F 

E 

F 

E 

E 

E 
C 
E 

E 

C 

BORROW 

D 

E 

F 

E 

F 

SUBREG 

D 

A 

A 

C 

C 

7 

7 

ZCNT 

2 

1 

4 



NO. OF BYTES 

SET REGISTER C TO CONVERSION TABLE 



STORE RF (FOR DEBUGGING PURPOSES) 



SET X TO C 

SET COUNTER TO ZERO 

MOVE RF VALUE TO RE 



SUBTRACT TABLE ENTRY FROM RE 
SUBTRACT MEMORY 

NEXT TABLE BYTE 

SUBTRACT BORROW 

ORIGINAL TABLE BYTE 

ADD 1 TO COUNTER 
MOVE RE TO RF 



STORE DECIMAL DIGIT 
NEXT DIGIT LOCATION 
NEXT TABLE ENTRY 

SUBTRACT 1 FROM NUMBER OF BYTES 



TURN ON TV 

RETURN 

10000 

1000 

100 

10 




'Trademark of Western Digital, ■■' v* 
'Trademark of Digital Research, ; ~ *f 
'Trademark of University of Oilifar'riJa: 

9 

Copyright ©I960. 
Digiaomp Research 
All rights reserved. 



New FASCAHOO™ CPU mates 
today's popular UCSD Pascal lan- 
guage to your S-100 system. With 
both a Z80 processor and the Pascal 
Microengine' aboard, PASCAUOO 
gives you the power of software data 
structuring without sacrificing 
speed, memory space— or even your 
current Z80, 8080 and CP/M 2 
software. 

Greater Speed. Up to 5 to 
10 times faster than usual S-100 




implemen 

tations 

of 

UCSD Pascal. 



More Memory. Up to 

128K bytes of memory, plus an optional 
1M extended address feature. 



Better Performance. 

Complies with the new IEEE 
standard— PASCAL-100 has 
upward compatibility built in. 



Dealer/OEM Inquiries 
welcomed 



For complete information— fast— mail this ad or call us 

name mie 

Company 

Address 



Slare 



Digicomp Research TerraceHill. Ithaca NY 14850 (6D7)273 t 5§ 




. Phone 



322 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 242 on inquiry card. 



Circle 243 on inquiry card. 





f CONVERT^ 
V^ COUNT J 










SET R7 TO 

5 

(NUMBER OF BYTES) 














SET RC 

TO CONVERSION 
TABLE 






' 


' 


























SET RD TO 

DIGIT COUNT 
















STORE DIGIT 
COUNT RD 
AT RA, RA+ 1 














MOVE 

RF TO RE 
















-1 


' 






ADD 2 TO RC 
NEXT TABLE 
ENTRY 


























SUBTRACT 
TABLE ENTRY 
FROM RE 








SUBTRACT 1 

FROM R7 

(NUMBER OF BYTES) 










/•"bor 


ROW^\ YES 










? yS 


/R7 


.rjV NO 




Tno 




3 yS 




ADD 1 TO RD 
DIGIT COUNT 




YES 






TURN ON TV 
















MOVE 

RE TO RF 










S 










I RET 


URN J 



Figure 3: Flowchart for the binary-to-decimal-conversion pro- 
gram. RA contains the address of the digit storage area. 



Text continued from page 320: 

(this 16-bit value will overflow to zero at 65,536), the 
binary-to-decimal-conversion portion of the subroutine 
gets control. This routine successively subtracts multiples 
of ten stored in a table from the binary number and stores 
decimal digits each time the frequency count underflows. 

Once you have your frequency counter running, you 
might want to modify the program to check EF2 instead 
of EF4 input. With this change, sine waves on EF2 can be 
counted using the tape-input line of the VIP. 

Other useful applications for the frequency-counter 
program are the alignment of a modem kit like the Pen- 
nywhistle 103 and the adjustment of cassette-tape clock 
interfaces. 

Even if you don't have a COSMAC VIP, you can pro- 
gram your microcomputer to perform frequency counts 
using the flowchart contained in this article. Happy 
counting I ■ 



THE PRACTICAL APPROACH 

TO MULTI-USER 
MULTI-TASKING 
APPLICATIONS 




OSM'S NEW EXPANDABLE MULTIPROCESSOR, 
MULTI-USER SYSTEM MODEL 6500 

MODEL 6500 FEATURES: 

— Up to 6separate users per mainframe (10 in March, 1981). Each user has 
their own system consisting of Z80A CUP, 64K memory console and op- 
tional local printer I/O. 

— S100 Bus and CP/M2.2' compatible. User and master processors do not 
communicate on the S100 Bus enabling users to operate at full speed. 

— User processors are connected to the master processor through a high 
speed parallel bidirectional data channel. 

— Multi-user System Executive. Unlike MP/M® there is no performance 
degradation as users are added. 

—Users share common disk storage and master printer. The master pro- 
cessor handles disk (floppy and hard) access and printing, as well as 
automatic master printer spooling. 

— Each user has a system reset button. lfanyoftheusers,whetherlocalor 
remote (thru MODEM), should "crash", he may reset his CPU by depressing 
the console break key. Other users will not be affected providing complete 
autonomy. —Additional features include expandability to 100+ user ter- 
minals, interfaces to any ASCII CRT terminal, messages can be passed 
among users, and multi-level file security and file sharing interlock are pro- 
vided. 

CP/M and MP/M are registered trademarks of Digital Research. 

OSM COMPUTER CORPORATION 

2364 WALSH AVENUE • SANTA CLARA. CA 95051 
(408) 496-6910 • TWX: 910 338 2099 



BYTE 

BACK IMUE& 

FOR MLE 

The following issues are available: 

1976: July and November 

1977: March, May thru December 

1978: February thru October, December 

1979: January thru December except March 

1980: January to current issue except February and October 

Cover price for each issue through August 1977 is $1.75 

Domestic; $2.75 Canada and Mexico; $3.75 Foreign. 

September 1977 through October 1979 issues are $2.50 

Domestic; $3.25 Canada and Mexico; $4.00 Foreign. 

November 1979 to current is $3.00 Domestic; $3.75 Canada 

and Mexico; $4.50 Foreign. 




Send requests 
with 

payment 
to: 

BYTE 

Publications 

70 Main St. 

Peterborough 

NH 

03458 

Attn: 

Back Issues 



February 1981 © BITE Publications Inc 323 




Speech 

syhtmsis 

&Y TOM SlOA*. 





T 


WMATS CO/A 


ICr ON f) 


# 


t 


-"/k>\ 






-O 


* 


% 


if i^ 


aC:- 


■^>s^ 


pt-^^^' 


-^v 






^# 



TwELL, HE'S WRITING- A 
4 VOICE -SPEECH 
SYNTHESIS 
PROG-RAM, 



WE'LL NEED *k DIFFERENT 
PEOPLE FOR THE V01CE5 





— -^-T — "SHELUT 
HEi.t.oX.HELLO^ 





NOW WHEN 
THE LED 
FLASHES, ITS 
sYOUR QUE 




OK MEN 
WE'RE READY 
FOR A TEST. 




OH NO/ YOU GOT 

.LARYNGITIS/, 








CEE ITS NICE WHEN YOUR 
COMPUTER RUNS PROPERLY 




324 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Programming Quickies 






KNIGHT: A Knight's 
Tour Problem in MMSFORTH 



Ulrich Frei, Aalweg 13, D 7922 Bolheim, West Germany (BRD) 



1 DY ■/. 
-2 5 DY /. 

2 XF'OS '/. 



2 1 HY 

-2 6 HY 

YF'OS V. 



2 2 HY ■/. 1 
-1 7 HY ■/. 
XNEU ■-: 2 YNEU 



I run MMSFORTH on my Radio Shack TRS-80 Model 
I. I wrote the KNIGHT program in listing 1 to compare 
the speed of FORTH with other languages. The program 
in listing 1 shows the trial-and-error solution of the 
Knight's Tour problem (ie: to find a sequence of Knight 
moves such that each chessboard square is visited exactly 
once) displayed on the screen while the solution is being 
worked out. A modified version of this program that 
does not give a dynamic display of each move was com- 
pared in execution speed and relative program size to the 
same algorithm coded in TRS-80 Level II BASIC and in 
Z80 machine code. The results are given in table 1. ■ 



< KNIGHTSTOUR 

: F'OSCHK XF'OS B 
YF'OS B 
XNEU b 



i b direct a nx a 

I B UIRECT S DY B 
YNEU B BOARD B 



F'ART 3 OF 4 

+ XNEU X 
+ YNEU :'. 
0- 



XNEU B XF'OS V. YNEU B YF'OS 

YF'OS B 2 - 2 * XF'OS B 2 - 8 
N B XF'OS YF'OS B BOARD V. 



BLOCK 82 > 



1 N +'/. 
F'TC N ? '. DISF'L. MOVE ) 
UF'DATE BOARD ) ! 



YF'OS B 2 - 2 * XF'OS B 2 
N B DIRECT V. XF'OS B 

XF'OS B N B DIRECT B DX B - 
YF'OS B N B DIRECT B DY B - 



8 * F'TC " 
YF'OS B BOARD 

XF'OS '/. 

YF'OS '/'. 



N 1 - N /. 



Listing 1: The program KNIGHT, a Knight's Tour problem writ- 
ten in MMSFORTH. This listing was made on a European 
printer, which necessitates the American user to change all the 
percent signs (%) to exclamation points (!). The exclamation 
point is actually the familiar "store-value" variable in FORTH 
and is used in the words ( I j and { + I ). 



! KNIGHTSTOUR 

< TO START. TYF'E 80 LOAD <ENTER> 

I. REF'LACE '/. WITH EXCLAMATION-MARK 



FART 1 OF 4 



BLOCK 80 ) 

) 
) 



11 11 2ARRAY BOARD 

64 ARRAY DIRECT 

7 ARRAY DX 7 ARRAY IiY 



2 VARIABLE XNEU 
2 VARIABLE XF'OS 
1 VARIABLE N 



< KNIGHTSTOUR 



2 VARIABLE YNEU 
2 VARIABLE YF'OS 



( LOAD ARRAY-ROUTINE > 

< BOARD-REF'RESENTATION > 

< STORAGE OF DIRECTION ) 

< POSSIBLE DISF'LACEMENTS > 

< FUTURE POSITION ) 

< CURRENT F'OSITION ) 

< NUMBER OF MOVE ) 



F'ART 2 OF 4 



BLOCK Bl > 



-1 I J BOARD 
I J BOARD 



CLS 

12 DO 12 DO 

10 2 DO 10 2 DO 

12 2 BOARD '/. 

43 DO I DIRECT '/. LOOF' 

8 DO 8 IlO I 2 « J 8 * F'TC " 

F'TC " 1 " 

2 IiX '/. 1 1 DX '/. -1 2 DX V. 
-1 3 DX V. 16 DX '/. 2 7 DX '/. 



LOOF' LOOP 
LOOF' LOOP 



LOOF' LOOF' 



< KNIGHTSTOUR 
: KNIGHT 



F'ART 4 OF 4 



CLS INIT 
BEGIN F'OSCHK 



IF MOVE 

ELSE N DIRECT 7 
IF BACK 

BEGIN BACK 
N B DIRECT 
END 
THEN 
1 N B DIRECT +','. 
THEN 



N B 
END 



Language 



Z80 machine language 

MMSFORTH 

Level II BASIC 



Execution Time 



1 min, 06 sec 

30 min 
9 hr, 52 min 



Relative Size 
of Program 

1 

27 

539 



Table 1: Comparative execution times and program sizes of 
three versions of the same program. The same algorithm was 
used to code each of the three versions of the Knight's Tour 
problem, one version each in 7.80 machine language, 
MMSFORTH, and Level U BASIC. The machine used was a 
Radio Shack TRS-80 Model I. 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 325 



A Heating and Cooling 
Management System 



Tom Hall 
8500 Cameron Rd 
Austin TX 78753 



This article describes a practical 
application for computer-automated 
management of your home's heating 
and cooling needs. 

Let's review some simple facts 
about the home that will be helpful in 
planning a home heating and cooling 
management system. Of course, you 
may have a few of your own to add 
after reading the list: 

• The kitchen is usually warmer than 
the rest of the house during cook- 
ing periods. 

• The laundry room, while being 
used, is usually warmer than the 
rest of the house. 

• During normal sleep periods, we 
care only about the temperature of 
the bedrooms. 

• In a two-story house, the tempera- 
ture upstairs is usually significant- 
ly warmer than downstairs. 

• We do not care what the tempera- 
ture is (within reasonable limits) in 
the house when we are away. 

Now let's take a look at the basic 
weakness of most central heating 
(and air conditioning) units. There is 
only one thermostat and it is located 
in one room. Therefore, only the tem- 



perature of that room is really 
regulated, and the thermostat must be 
manually adjusted. Now let's ex- 
amine a system that can be used to 
help manage the heating and cooling 
of a home. The components of the 
system are the computer, the central 

Your personal com- 
puter can optimize 
your home heating and 
cooling system even 
when you're away 
from home. 

heating unit, a real-time clock, a 
switch that indicates whether anyone 
is at home, and an array of computer- 
compatible temperature sensors. 

Designing the System 

The first step is to determine how 
many of the temperature sensors you 
will need. For a week or so, measure 
the temperature in each room of your 
house about six or eight times a day. 
At least two of these times should be 
during cooking and washing periods. 
You will probably find that the 



temperatures in all the bedrooms are 
about equal. Several other rooms will 
probably be similar under most con- 
ditions. The number of sensors need- 
ed for your home will vary with your 
conditions, but you will probably not 
need a sensor in every room. You will 
want to place a temperature sensor 
outside, in the kitchen, in a bedroom, 
and in any room that shows a 
temperature difference of several 
degrees in a day's time. 

To approximate the thermal capa- 
city of each area, determine the num- 
ber of cubic feet of space served by 
each sensor. This is necessary to com- 
pute the average temperature of the 
house. From this information, we will 
decide whether to turn on the heating 
(or cooling) system or to just balance 
the temperature throughout the house 
by turning on blower fans. Of course, 
when we do not care about the 
temperature balance (such as when 
we are sleeping or away from home), 
it will not be controlled as tightly. 

The flowchart of figure 1 presents a 
possible control routine for the hard- 
ware described here. It is written for 
winter with the assumption that our 
main concern is keeping the house 
warm. 



* NORTH STAR USERS * 

8" FLOPPY SUBSYSTEM HAS DAWNED ON THE HORIZON 



COMPLETE WITH MANUALS. SOFTWARE, HARDWARE FULLY INTEGRATED, READY TO RUN 

* Foully compatible with North Star hardware * Allows use of 8 and'orS" drives * Detailed, 80 paj;e manual included * Background print (asks 
* Support* Itoppy files up to 4.2 MB * Simple, plug-in operation * Fully CP/M"' compatible *File security * Extensive utilities included 



DMA-DOS Software S200 

Dynamic Microprocessor Associates Disk Operating System 

Tarbell Double Density Controller $420 

Cables $40 



Dual Shugart 8" 800R drives in cabinet with fan 

and power supply $1,250 

Total package $1,910 

Prices and otters subject to change without notice 



» WE WILL PAY SHIPPING ON PREPAID ORDERS (Continental USA only). WE HAVE NO READER INQUIRY NUMBER. PLEASE WRITE OR CALL. ' 



JOHN D. OWENS ASSOCIATES, INC. 

12 SCHUBERT STREET, STATEN ISLAND, NEW YORK 10305 
OVERSEAS CALLERS: TWX 710 588 2844 or call (212) 448 6298*DOMESTIC CALLS: (212) 448 6283 (212) 448 6298 (212) 448 2913 



326 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



f ENTER j 



LOAD TEMPERATURE 
LIMITS FOR 
UNOCCUPIED HOUSE 




INITIATE 

TURN OFF SEQUENCE 

FOR HEAT 



TURN FAN OFF 



WAIT FOR 
TEMPERATURE 
MONITOR 
INTERRUPT 



MEASURE ALL 
TEMPERATURES 




YES 




LOAD TEMPERATURE 
LIMITS FOR 
OCCUPIED HOUSE 




CALCULATE AVERAGE 
TEMPERATURE 
OF HOUSE 



YES 





INITIATE 

TURN ON SEQUENCE 

FOR HEAT 



JL 



LOAD TEMPERATURE 
LIMITS FOR 
SLEEP PERIOD 




YES 



INITIATE 

TURN OFF SEQUENCE 

FOR FAN 



Figure 1: Flowchart for a winter temperature-control program. Use of this flowchart assumes that the computer has control of the 
house thermostat and fans and that it can sense temperature through several remote temperature transducers, the sleep/waking status 
through a real-time clock, and the home/gone status through a user-controlled remote switch. 



The flowchart is self-explanatory, 
but several notes are in order. When 
installing an interface to your heating 
system, be sure to leave the existing 
thermostat active for safety reasons. 
Also, if you are not familiar with the 
workings of your heating unit, ask 
for assistance from a professional. 

Hardware Description 

Figure 2 demonstrates two versions 
of the remote switch that tells the 
computer whether or not anyone is 
home. The version in figure 2a uses 
one wire from the computer connect- 
ing through the remote switch to a 
natural ground (for example, a water 



pipe). The software that samples the 
STATUS bit should do so several 
times in order to be sure of the remote 
switch's position. 

Because the use of the home's 
ground may produce a false reading 
(due to the "noise" of household 
appliances, among other things), the 
more complex circuit of figure 2b pro- 
vides a foolproof solution; its disad- 
vantage is that it requires three extra 
remote lines. The 1 k-ohm resistor 
close to the 5 V supply limits the cur- 
rent coming from the source in case of 
an accidental short. The IC4a and 
IC4b pair form an RS latch that holds 
the most recent value of the remote 



switch (which is a momentary closure 
switch). This circuit has the 
advantage of requiring only a con- 
ventional electrical ground. The AT 
HOME OVERRIDE switch is located 
close to the computer so that the user 
can change the value of STATUS 
without throwing the switch at the 
remote location. 

Figure 3 is a schematic of the tem- 
perature sensor, which is based on a 
National Semiconductor LX5700 tem- 
perature transducer. The circuit con- 
verts the analog output of the trans- 
ducer to a pulse frequency via a timer 
circuit. We can later convert this in 

Text continued on page 330 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 327 



(2a) 



r 



| +5V 

REMOTE I 

SWITCH I HOME 



GONE 



^ 



L. 



(2b) 
I 



REMOTE 
SWITCH 



IK 
-ff -VW- 



•5.6K >5.6K 



GONE 



47K 
-jj "^/V- 



j 47K 
-. // W^ 



~fj- 



_l 



TtV 



n 



LOW = AT HOME 
HIGH=GONE 




F5V 






4.7 M F 
10V 



I'" 



4.7 M F 



COMPUTER END RECEIVER 




1C4 
74COO 



^>G>M 



f5V 



IC3 

74L04 

8 3 ^V^> STATUS ^T o HO« 



10K 



10K 
-vw- 



AT HOME 
OVERRIDE 



Figure 2: Schematic diagram for the home/ gone remote switch. The version of this switch given in figure 2a is simpler, using fewer 
components and wires, but it may be vulnerable to electrical "noise" in the natural (house) ground it makes use of. The version in 
figure 2b is more complex, but it uses a conventional (equipment) ground and two NAND gates wired as a set-reset (RS) latch that 
remembers the most recent switch position. 




System-One: 

An information storage and retrieval system 
offering a simple yet powerful inquiry by 
example operator interface. The inquiry by 
example process allows an operator, regard- 
less of formal training, the ability and oppor- 
tunity to take advantage of a powerful 
retrieval tool. For those in need of a more 
formal approach supporting boolean expres- 
sion evaluation, keep an eye on future 
m l\Dex product releases. 

For more detail, see our earlier Nov/Dec 1980 
ads in BYTE. 

"TrVZW System-One, for UCSD Pascal 1.5. 
11.0, or PASCAL/M with sample databases 

and manual $250 

m INDex manual only $ 30 



Pascal Resources: 

Since Pascal is the preferred language at 
m lVDe\ , and because of its growing pop- 
ularity and acceptance, m IIMDex is consider- 
ing the development of a major MINDex- 
CHANGE Softsource, a database entitled 
"Pascal Resources." 

If you or your company have products or ser- 
vices related to the Pascal language and we 
have not already contacted you, please con- 
tact us for further information on this 
development. 

If you would be interested in obtaining a 
copy of such a database in either machine 
readable form, hard copy, or microfiche for- 
mat, please drop us a line stating your 
preference. 



Current MINDexCHANGE Softsources in the 

form of System-One compatible text files in- 
clude: 

1. Micro-Op-System Resources. 

2. Micro-Language Resources. 

3. Micro-Peripheral Resources. 

Softsources are $30 each, or $75 for the set. 
Each database includes a related thesaurus 
of key words for use with System-One. 

Dealer inquiries are invited. 

Contact: m l\Dex Infosystems 

81 Centennial Loop, Suite A 
Eugene, Oregon 97401 
Ph: (503)485-5827 

Shipped on 8" single-density 
soft sectored diskettes. 



J 



UCSD Pascal is a registered trademark of The Regents of the University of California. PASCAUM is a trademark of Sorcim. 



328 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 244 on inquiry card. 




AIM 65 



Circle 245 on inquiry card. 



AIM 65 is fully assembled, tested and warranted. With the addition of a low cost, readily available power 
supply, it's ready to start working for you. It has an addressing capability up to 65K bytes, and comes 
with a user-dedicated 1K or 4K RAM. 



• Thermal Printer 

• Full-Size Alphanumeric Keyboard 

• True Alphanumeric Display 

• Proven R6500 Microcomputer System Devices 



• Built-in Expansion Capability 

• TTY and Audio Cassette Interfaces 

• ROM Resident Advanced Interactive Monitor 

• Advanced Interactive Monitor Commands 



PRICE: $389.00 



Plus $4.00 UPS (shipped in U.S. must give street address), $10 parcel post to APO's, FPO's, Alaska, 
Hawaii.Canada, $25 air mail to all other countries 

We manufacture a complete line of high quality expansion boards. Use reader service card to be added 
to our mailing list, or U.S. residents send $1 .00 (International send $3.00 U.S.) for airmail delivery of our 
complete catalog. 



ENTERPRISES 

INCORPORATED 



2951 W. Fairmount Avenue • Phoenix, AZ 85017 • (602) 265-7564 




REMOTE SENSOR 



COMPUTER END 



* * +1% METAL FILM 1/2 W 



Number Type +5 V GND 



IC1 


LX5700 


— 


IC2 


LM3046N 


— 


IC3 


7404 


14 


IC4 


7400 


14 




Figure 3: Schematic diagram for the remote temperature sensor. 1C1 is the temperature sensor, while IC2 is a transistor array that ex- 
hibits stability over a wide temperature range. The output bit CNEN must be high to allow the pulse train CN to appear. The fre- 
quency of the pulse train at CN is proportional to the temperature being sensed. 



$GOLD DISK$ CP/M® Compatible Z-80 Software 

Available for all 8-5" ss-sd IBM format systems including TRS-SO", Northstar. SD Systems, 

Also available on 5" double density Superbrain" - 



GREAT LOOKING LETTERS & REPORTS! 
REPORT WRITER 



TaketheAGONYoutofterm paper writing 
AUTO footnoting, table spacing, headings 

NO RETYPING TO INCLUDE CHANGES, CORRECTIONS 
ALWAYS PROFESSIONAL LOOKING LETTERS, FORMS 

SIMPLE MULTI-LETTER PRINTING 

LEFT AND RIGHT JUSTIFICATION 
SIMPLE TO LEARN, EASY TO USE 



$ 42 



00 



UN-CAN YOUR CANNED SOFTWARE! 
Z-80 DISASSEMBLER 



Feel couped up with your canned software? 
Our Z-80 Disassembler recreates assembly 

LANGUAGE SOURCE FILES FROM ABSOLUTE CODE 
ENABLING USERS TO EASILY TAILOR PROGRAMS TO 
MEET THEIR SPECIFIC NEEDS. THE 
PRECONDITIONER ALLOWS THE 

Disassembler to decode Ascn. ■ *■""» ppd 



*72 



00 



Credit Cards: Free 24 hr order 
phone, we'll credit invoice, one 
day service. checks. m .o.'s: ten 
workday hold. ca. res: add tax. 



BOWER-STEWART & ASSOCIATES 

P.O. BOX 1389 

HAWTHORNE, CA. 90250 

(213) 676-5055 




State system & controller, 
allow time for surface mail. 
Trademarks- 'Digital Research, 
"Radio Shack, '"Intertec. 



Circle 246 on Inquiry card. 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications toe 329 



Number Type 


+ 5 V 


GND 


IC5 74198N 
IC6 DM8556N 
IC7 DM8556N 
IC8 DM8556N 
IC9 DM8556N 
IC10 7404 


24 
16 
16 
16 
16 
14 


12 
8 
8 
8 
8 
7 



RESET 
COUNT 



o 



READ 

BYTE O- 

ONE 

READ 

BYTE E>- 

TWO 



t-5V 



CNH Q>- 

CNG fZ>- 

CNF [~>- 

CNE C>- 

CND Q>- 

CNC O- 

CNB \~^>- 

CNA \~^- 



"^ 



£X 



IC10 
7404 



J B>M>ci 




-CI> CNENH 

-Q> CNENG 

-(3> CNENF 

£^> CNENE 

-Q> CNEND 

-Q> CNENC 

{^> CNENB 

-fj^> CNENA 



LOAD 

SENSOR I — v. 

SELECT I *■ 

BYTE 



5V 

A 



LOAD 

RESET 

CLOCK 

OD 



IC9 



MAX 
COUNT 



LOAD 

RESET 

CLOCK 

OD 



IC8 



12 



MAX 
COUNT 



LOAD 

RESET 

CLOCK 

OD 



IC7 



hSV 



MAX 
COUNT 



LOAD 

RESET 

CLOCK 

OD 



T 



I0D 
IOC 
I OB 
I0A 



13 



10 



I0D 
IOC 
I0B 

I0A 



I0D 
IOC 
IOB- 



IOA 



13 



10 



!0D 
IOC 
IOB 
IOA 



IC6 - IC9 ARE 
DM8556N 



-O BO 
-O Bl 
-O B2 
-D>B3 



-O B4 
-O B5 
-O B6 
-O B7 



Figure 4: Schematic diagram for a temperature-count accumulator. This circuit allows the computer t o count the pulses from any one 
of the eight temperature sensors. After the count is finished, the circuit returns the count as an absolute 16-bit number delivered 
1 byte at a time. IC5 is an 8-bit shift register that transfers the 8 bits coming from the computer (1B0 thru IB7) to the enable lines of the 
eight temperature sensors (CNENA thru CNENH) when the load-sensor-select-byte input line goes high. 1C6 thru 1C9 are three-state 
binary counters that are cascaded to form a 16-bit counter. 



Text continued from page 327: resistors forms a constant-current 

software to a temperature reading. source. A constant-current source is 

In figure 3, the circuit formed by an efficient way of sending power to a 

the transistor Ql, the light-emitting remote circuit because the impedance 

diode (LED), and their two associated of the power line to the remote circuit 



is not critical. Also, a zener diode is 
present within IC1 to regulate its 
voltage. 

To minimize the number of wires 
running to the multiple remote sen- 



330 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Count Change 

(Perl°F 
Temperature 
Change 



) 



( Counts at Hot Water Temperature) — (Counts at 32° F ) 
(Corrected Hot Water Temperature) 



To figure the actual temperature 
' Temperature \ 

Table 1: Equations for obtaining corrected temperature readings from the sensors 



/T 

\in Degrees 



( Number of Counts for Unknown Temperature) — (Counts at 32 °F ) 
(Count Change per 1° F of Temperature Change) 



sors that this design requires, I used a 
technique that allows the use of the 
same wire both to supply power to 
the integrated circuits and to return 
the pulse train from IC2. The pulse 
train from IC2 pulls the power line 
low enough to be recognized as a 
logical low by IC3. During the short 
periods that the power line is low, the 
capacitor C3, assisted by the constant 
current coming from the transistor- 
LED pair even when the power line is 
low, maintains power to the sensor. 

The pulse train arriving at IC3 has 
a frequency that is proportional to 
the temperature being sensed by ICl. 
The NAND gate of IC4 allows the 
CNEN line to con trol t he flow of the 
pulse train to the CN line. 

Figure 4 shows the temperature- 
count accumulator that receives the 
CN signal from any one of eight 
sensors. The circuits IC6 thru IC9 are 
each binary counters with three-state 
outputs (high, low, or disconnect). 
They will be used to count the 
number of pulses in a fixed time 
frame from each sensor in its turn. 
Figure 5 shows a timing diagram for 
the temperature accumulator and 
gives an explanation of its workings. 

To calibrate the sensors, a large 
bucket of ice and a thermometer 
capable of measuring temperatures 
from about — 5 ° F to 120° F are need- 
ed. The sensor to be calibrated should 
be hooked up to the computer in the 
same way that it will be for remote- 
temperature sensing. The real-time 
clock should allow the sensor to 
count for about 0.5 seconds before 
the computer reads its count value 
from the circuit in figure 4. The count 
for the sensor should be in the range 
of 3000 to 15,000 counts; this tells us 
only that the sensor is functioning. 

Take each sensor and dunk it in the 
bucket of ice. Pour in just enough 
water to cover the ice, stir, and stick 
the thermometer in. This is called an 



LOAD SENSO 



1q lu IH7 



RESET COUNT 



READ BYTE 1 



READ BYTE 2 



R BYTE I L 



INITIALIZE 



~fh 



~fh 



SJ- 



-fj- 



READ TEMPERATURE 



Figure 5: Overview of the temperature-sensing process. The events must take place in 
the following sequence: (A) Deselect all sensors by setting IB0 thru IB7 to zeros, then 
raising the load-sensor-select-byte bit to high. (B) Reset the temperature count with a 
positive pulse. (C) Select the desired sensor by the above method, but with a 1 going to 
the IB line of the chosen sensor. (D) After the count is completed, deselect all sensors as 
in step A. (E) Get the low byte of the count by pulsing the read-byte-1 line. (F) Get the 
high byte of the count by pulsing the read-byte-2 line. (G) Reset the temperature count 
as above; then go back to C if more sensors are to be read. 



ice-point bath. The count from each 
sensor is the number of pulses equiv- 
alent to a temperature of 32° F. Con- 
firm this reading with your ther- 
mometer, which should also read 32° 
F. If it does not, note the difference in 
the two readings — this number can be 
used as a correction factor in the next 
step. 

Take the sensors out of the bucket 
and pour out the ice water. Rinse the 
bucket with hot tap water. Then fill 
the bucket with hot tap water, put the 
sensors back in the bucket along with 
the thermometer, and stir again. Read 
the thermometer and record the count 
for each sensor at the new temper- 
ature. If the reading at 32° F was off, 
you will have to adjust the new 
temperature by the same amount. 
This gives us the corresponding count 
for each sensor for two temperature 



extremes. From this we can easily 
determine the temperature of a given 
sensor by using the equations in table 
1. Knowing the temperature from 
each sensor, you can proceed to write 
a program from the flowchart and 
start keeping track of your home 
heating system. ■ 



1 . Lefferts, Peter, Linear Applications 2 
(National Semiconductor, Santa Clara, 
California). 

2. Smith, M F, "Using Interrupts for Read- 
Time Clocks," BYTE, November 1977, pages 
50 thru 53. 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 331 



Modifying the SwTPC Computer 



Thomas J Weaver 
825 N Sherry Ave 
Norman OK 73069 



Changing to a newer 6809 
microprocessor is a simple way to 
upgrade a 6800-based computer. In 
fact, Southwest Technical Products 
Corporation makes a conversion kit 
for its 6800 system that includes a 
6809 processor board (see photo 1) 
and complete instructions. The kit 
can be built in one evening, but does 
require some modifications to the 
existing system. 

Because of changes that I had 
already made to my computer, I was 
able to ignore the modifications sug- 
gested for the memory boards and 
disk controller. However, these 
changes are not complex, and should 
not require much time. 

What I found most upsetting were 
the modifications that had to be made 
to the motherboard. These changes, if 
made, would not allow the use of the 



6800 processor board. Because I have 
many large 6800 programs in binary 
form, without source code, it became 
necessary for me to fix the mother- 
board so that it would work with 
either processor board. 

Although several of the bus lines 
are redefined for 6809 use, some of 
the changes do not affect 6800 opera- 
tion. For example, the 6809 us es the 
UD2 line for the active-low FIRQ 
signal. All told, these are only five in- 
compatible signals. 

By installing a five-pole, two- 
position switch, it is a simple matter 
to change the configuration from 
6800 to 6809. Most of the wiring at- 
tachments to the motherboard can be 
made in a small area, and a ribbon 
cable allows the switch to be mounted 
above the reset and power controls. 
Other connections must be made to 
the reset switch and the motherboard 
power-supply connector. These con- 
nection points on the bottom of the 
MP-B motherboard are shown in 
photo 2. Table 1 summarizes the 



(212) 986-7690 

MAIL ORDER ONLY 



Micro Computer Your One Stop For. . .Quality and Huge Savlnga 



DISCOUNX 



QUALITY • DELIVERY • SERVICE 

60 E. 42nd St. Suite 411 New York, NY 10017 




CENTRONICS 

CALL FOR PRICES 



ATARI 

800— $795 



APF 

IMl - $495 
IM2 - $988 




COMMODORE 

8K - $729 
16K - $888 
32K - $1088 
2022 - $695 
2040 - $1088 
8050 - $1435 
8032 - $1495 





XYMEC 

HQ 1000 - $2395 



NEC 
SPINWRITER 

5510 - $2795 
5520 - $2990 



EPSON MX-80 
EPSON MX- 70 

PAPER TIGER 

445 & 460 



CALL FOR PRICE 



SUPERBRAIN* 

*32K - $2445 
64K - $2645 
64KQD - $3395 
*32K add-in memory 

only $10 with 

purchase 



*XEROX 

1740 RO - $2619 
1740 KSR- $2995 
1750 RO - $2795 
1750 KSR - $2995 
1730 - $2195 



MAIL ORDER ONLY 

Send Certified Check (Personal or Company Checks require 2 weeks to clear.) 
We pay all shipping and insurance charges except items marked with asterisk. 
VISA, MasterCharge add 5% N.Y.S. Residents add appropriate sales tax. 



* (DENOTES ITEMS 
SHIPPED FOB. NYC) 

PHONE (212) 986-7690 



jumpers and traces that must be cut. 
See figure 1 for the various switch 
connections. 

When the modifications are com- 
plete, either processor board may be 
used by connecting or disconnecting 
the 6809 reset cable, changing pro- 





Connection Points 


A 


UD3 on I/O bus 


B 


SELECT 5 on I/O bus 


C 


IC 6 pin 7 


D 


IC 6 pin 11 


E 


IC 6 pin 6 (at R12) 


h 


A12 line on SS50 bus 


G 


IC 5 pins 5, 6 


H 


IC 4 pin 2 (on connector line) 


1 


IC 4 pins 9, 10 


J 


IC 4 pin 11 


K 


IC 4 pin 12 


L 


IC3 pin 6 (at R11) 


M 


Master Reset line on SS50 bus 


N 


UD2 line on SS50 bus 


O 


+ 5 V(at R1, R2, R3, et al) 


Y 


reset switch 


Q 


reset switch 


R 


power supply connector pin 9 


jumper: 




A — B 




H — L 




N — v^ — 




6.8 k-ohm 




P — 6809 reset connector 




Q — 6809 reset connctor 


cut: 




D / / G 




near D 




I / / K 




remove master reset line at mother- 


board 


Table 1: The five-pole, two-position 


switch of figure 1 is connected to the 


points specified in this table. Note that 


not all modifications are made directly 


to 


the switch; some are jumpers. 



Address Translation 


of 48 K Bytes 


Physical Address 


Logical Address 


Oxxx 


Oxxx 


1xxx 


1xxx 


2xxx 


2xxx 


3xxx 


3xxx 


4xxx 


4xxx 


5xxx 


5xxx 


6xxx 


6xxx 


7xxx 


7xxx 


Axxx 


8xxx 


Bxxx 


9xxx 


Cxxx 


Cxxx 


Dxxx 


Dxxx 


Table 2: Physical and logical memory 


addresses are mapped 


in a slightly dif- 


ferent manner. 





332 Februai-y 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



Circle 247 on inquiry card. 



What are Heathkit® owners saying about Buss? 



"Keep up the great work. Buss is the most useful, 
information-packed publication I have encountered 
in my 15 years in the computing industry." Clara, 
CA 

"Congratulations on Buss's advance information. 
One issue alone saved me over $150. Total savings 
about $240 so far!" New Rochelle, NY 

"Your Buss paper has been most helpful to me as 
I'm just getting started with my H8, H17 & H19. 
Keep up the good work." Maize, KS 



This is what people are saying about Buss: The Independent 
Newsletter of Heath Co. Computers. 

Buss is the publication where Heath® owners can give candid 
reports of their experiences with Heath® and Zenith products. It's 
mailed first class about every three weeks. 

Buss also publishes a directory of over 80 suppliers which is 
FREE to "subscribers. You can start your subscription with the 
latest edition or available back issues (about 15 still in stock). 
12 issues: $17.97 (overseas airmail $25.00).^ & W. >> c^ 
18 issues: $24.95 (overseas airmail $35.00) ^.^.x/j 
24 issues: $29.97 (overseas airmail $45.00) 
Payable in U.S. dollars on a U.S.- bank or by 
order. Buss, 325-B Pennsylvania Ave., S.E., Washington 



%<<?/ 



international 
DC 



money 
20003. 



cessor boards, and resetting the five- 
pole switch. Eventually, I plan to 
disassemble my binary programs and 
reassemble them on the 6809; but this 
system is quite flexible, so there is no 
rush. This allows me to evaluate and 
disassemble newly acquired 6800 pro- 
grams without having to borrow a 
friend's 6800 system. 

The Monitor 

The 6809 processor board includes 
space for four 2716-compatible 
2 K-byte programmable-memory in- 
tegrated circuits. The address loca- 
tions for the first two circuits overlap 
I/O port addresses, while the third 
has addresses identical to the 8-inch 
floppy-disk controller board (this 
presents no problem for those using 
5-inch floppy disks). The la.st of the 
four sets of addresses is occupied by 
the SBUG-E monitor read-only- 
memory integrated circuit. 

This monitor is slightly different 
from SwTPC's SWTBUG monitor, 
for the 6800 processor, but is also 
similar in many ways. This monitor 




Photo 1: To ensure proper operation of the 6809 processor board, in a modified system, 
resistor R20 should be installed on the solder side of the board, as shown. It is necessary 
to trim the leads flush with the top of the board, since they will be covered by the 
NMI/RESET connector. 



allows all registers to be examined 
and set directly, using the Control 
key, in combination with the register 
name. For example, keying Control- 
D allows the user to examine or 
change the direct-page register. In the 
SBUG-E monitor: 



• all registers may be displayed using 
the R command, and the system stack 
may be examined using the S com- 
mand. 

• There are separate commands to 
boot 8-inch (D) and 5-inch (U) 
floppy-disk units. 




Bring the computer to your senses 




The Soundchaser* computer music system transforms 
the Apple II" into an expandable, professional quality, 
polyphonic keyboard synthesizer and sequencer. Sound- 
chaser's music modules include a 4 octave keyboard 
housed in an attractively finished wood cabinet com- 
plete with polyphonic interface card, connector and 
control software. 1he synthesizer voice card provides 



3 analog/digital hybrid, studio quality programmable 
synthesizers. Each synthesizer consists of a wide range, 
waveform select oscillator, digitally controlled 24 dB/ 
octave, low pass resonant filter, user definable LFO. fully 
programmable envelope generators, and a digitally 
controlled amplifier. System software includes a 4 chan- 
nel sequencer which supports up to 12 synthesizers! 



Explore Soundchaser's musical horizons. 
Play the sounds at your fingertips. 

Keyboard: S650.00, 

3 Synthesizer voice card: S350.00. 

Write or call for details. 

Dealer inquiries invited. 

(415) 747-0614 



TVtvnssport 

>^De5IGN5 



Soundchaser is a trademark of Passport Designs, Inc. 
Apple is a registered trademark ot Apple Computer, Inc. 



Marketing: 
Box 21061. 
Minneapolis, MN 55421 



Headauarters: 

Box 478. 

La Honda, CA 94020 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 333 




Photo 2: Use of a ribbon cable allows a 
five-pole, two-position switch to be 
mounted in a convenient location on the 
front panel. 



IC6 PIN 6 
(AT R 12) 



IC5 PINS 5-6 G 



IC4 PIN 12 K 



MASTER RESET LINE 



ON SS50 BUS 



POWER SUPPLY 
CONNECTOR PIN 9 



• A memory-dump command (E) 
produces hexadecimal and ASCII 
dumps. 

• The familiar byte-examine and 
byte-change command (M) is still im- 
plemented. 

•A memory-test command (Q) 
checks a specified block of memory. 

• The go (G) command has been 
restructured to obtain the program 
execution address from the program- 
control register, rather than hexa- 
decimal location A048. 

• The go command also removes soft- 
ware interrupts created by the set 
breakpoint (B) command. 

• All breakpoints may be removed at 
once using the X command. 

• The MIKBUG tape load (L) and 
punch (P) commands are still present. 



Commands which are conspicuous 
by their absence are J (execute pro- 
gram starting at specified location) 
and F (find locations containing a 
specified byte). I hope these com- 
mands are included in the next ver- 
sion of the monitor, since I use them 
frequently, especially while trying to 
discover why new binary programs 
refuse to run on my system. 

Memory 

One of the areas that must be 
mastered before using the memory 
check (Q) command is Dynamic 



J IC4 PIN 11 



IC 6 PIN 11 



C IC6 PIN 7 



I IC4 PINS 9-10 



F A12 LINE ON SS50 BUS 



P RESET SWITCH 



Q RESET SWITCH 



Figure 1: The free end of the ribbon cable is connected to a five-pole, two-position 
switch, according to this diagram. 



Address Translation. Basically, 
memory may have different physical 
and logical addresses. When powered 
up, the monitor checks the amount of 
memory available, and then maps it 
in 4 K-byte segments, using the 
following hexadecimal hierarchy: 
Dxxx, Cxxx, Oxxx, lxxx, 2xxx, 3xxx, 
4xxx, 5xxx, 6xxx, 7xxx, 8xxx, 9xxx, 
Axxx, Bxxx. Up to 56 K bytes of pro- 
grammable memory may be mapped 
in this manner. An example of the 
physical and logical addresses of 
48 K bytes is shown in table 2. Since 
the modifications mentioned do not 
permit user memory at physical 
addresses 8000 thru 8FFF for 6800 
operation, the memory limit for 
systems with this modification is 
52 K bytes. 

The address table for the software 
interrupts (SWI, SWI2, a nd S WI3) 
and the interrupt requests (IRQ and 
FIRQ) is near the top of the user 
memory beginning at hexadecimal 
address DFC0. This table also in- 
cludes the lower and upper limits for 
a supervisor-call address table, used 
in connection with the SWI3 instruc- 
tion. When an SWI3 instruction is en- 
countered, the following byte is ex- 
amined. Assume this next byte con- 
tains the value n. If the user has pro- 
vided a supervisor-call address table 
containing at least n + 1 addresses, 
the supervisor routine indicated by 
the (n + l)th address will be executed. 
If the supervisor-call address table is 
not present or does not contain 
enough entries, the regular SWI3 
address will be used. 

Extras 

Several parts of the MP-09 pro- 
cessor board have obviously been de- 
signed for expansion. Simple, on- 
board connectors reconfigure the 
data rate lines for speeds from 110 
to 38,400 bps (bit per seconds), or use 
the 110 bps line as a Bus Request line. 
These and other features suggest that 
SwTPC has specific enhancements in 
mind. 

The FLEX2 (6800) and FLEX9 
(6809) 5-inch floppy-disk operating 
systems from TSC (Technical Sys- 
tems Consultants) further enhance 
the use of this modification. Text 
files, BASIC programs, and source 
code may be easily transferred from 
one system to the other since both use 
the same disk format. Now disks as 
well as hardware can be used inter- 
changeably with a dual 6800/6809 
system. ■ 



334 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



META TECHNOLOGIES 

FOR YOUR DISK SYSTEM 



FILE BOX $24£.*.*- 

DISKETTE STORAGE SYSTEM for 8" disks . . . $29.95 




MTC brings you the ULTIMATE diskette 
storage system, at an affordable price. Stor- 
ing 50 to 60 diskettes, this durable, smoke- 
colored acrylic unit provides easy access 
through the use of index dividers and ad- 
justable tabs. Unique lid design provides 
dust-free protection and doubles as a carry- 
ing handle. 



PLASTIC LIBRARY CASES 

(not shown) 
An economical form of storage for 10 to 1 5 
diskettes, and is suitable for your bookshelf! 
Case opens into a vertical holder for easy ac- 
cess. 

5Vi-inch diskette case $3.25 

8-inch diskette case $3.50 



TRS-80™ PRODUCTS 



•I tun is liirrimr 



MHjm&OFv hash: nEciuam 

*V- OTHER 7KVSTEKKS 

fm- fin- TI1S-SO 




NEWDOS/80 by Apparat $ 1 49.95 

NEWDOS + with ALL UTILITIES 

35-track $69.95 

40-track $79.95 

TRS-80TM DISK AND OTHER MYSTERIES 

. . .$19.95 

MICROSOFT tm BASIC DECODED & OTHER 
MYSTERIESfortheTRS-80TM $29.95 



'RINGS' & 
THINGS 

Help prevent data loss and media damage 
due to improper diskette centering and 
rotation with the FLOPPY SAVER™ rein- 
forcing hub ring kit. 7-mil mylar rings in- 
stall in seconds. Kit is complete with 
centering tool, pressure ring, 25 adhesive 
backed hub rings and instructions. 
HUB RING KIT for 5 1 /," diskettes . . $9.95 
REFILLS(50Hub Rings) $4.95 



Protect your expensive disk drives and 
your valuable diskettes with our diskette 
drive head cleaning kit. The kit, consisting 
of a pair of special "diskettes", cleaning 
solution and instructions, can be used for 
52 cleanings. Removes contamination 
from recording surfaces in seconds 
without harming drives. 



CLEANING KIT for b'A" drives 



$24.95 



Single Sided, Single Density, Soft-Sectored 
5%-inch, (for TRS-80™) Mini-floppy 

DISKETTES 
$21 



95 

box of 10 



These are factory fresh, absolutely first 
quality (no seconds!) mini-floppies. They are 
complete with envelopes, labels and write- 
protect tabs in a shrink-wrapped box. 



TM 



PLAIN JANE 

DISKETTES 

The Beautiful Floppy 

with the Magnetic Personality™ 

Thousands of people have switched to this 
low-cost alternative. These quality diskettes 
are packaged in a plain white box ... no fan 
cy printing, fancy names or fancy labels, not 
even our own (labels cost money). Trust us 

PLAIN JANE™ Diskettes $21.95 

10 boxes of 10 . . (eachbox)$21.50 

VERBATIM'S PREMIUM DISKETTES AT 
AFFORDABLE PRICES 



DATALIFE 



TM 



Seven data-shielding improvements mean 
greater durability and longer data life. 
These individually certified diskettes 
feature thicker oxide coating, longer-lasting 
lubricant, improved liner, superior 
polishing and more! Meets or exceeds IBM, 
Shugart, ANSI, ECMA and ISO standards. 
Buy the best ... buy DATALIFE™. 
VERBATIM DATALIFE™ DISKETTES 
5%-inch (box of 10) 

MD525-01 $26.95 

10 boxes of 10 . (each box)$25.95 
8-inch FLOPPIES 

Single-Density, FD34-1000 . . $29.95 
Double-Density, FD34-8000 . . $39.95 



CALL FOR INFORMATION ON 
OTHER TRS-80™ PRODUCTS 



Products damaged in 

transit will be 

exchanged. 

Prices, Specifications, 

and Offerings subject 

to change without 

notice. 



MOST ORDERS 

SHIPPED 

WITHIN ONE 

BUSINESS DAY 



PRICES IN EFFECT 

February 1, 1980 THRU 

February 28, 1980 



WE ACCEPT 

• VISA 

• MASTER CHARGE 

• CHECKS 

• MONEY ORDERS 

• C.O.D. 



• Add $2.50 for 
standard UPS 
shipping & handling 

• $2.00 EXTRA 
for COD. 

• Ohio residents 

add 5'/2% sales tax. 




TO PLACE ORDER 
1-800-321-3552 



CALL 

TOLL 
FREE 

IN OHIO call (216)289-7500 (COLLECT) 



FOR PRODUCT INFO 
1-800-321-3640 



(YlETfl TECH&O.QBES C[]RP[]Rfli™ 



26111 Brush Avenue. Euclid. Ohio 44132 



801215 

TRS-80 is a TM of Tandy Corp. 
PLAIN JANE is a TM ot MTC. 
31980 by Metatechnologies Corporation. Inc. 



Circle 249 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 335 



What's New? 



SOFTWARE 



Stock Portfolio Package 




Stockpak combines Standard & Poor's 
expertise with the latest analytical meth- 
ods of Wall Street investors to help users 
buy and sell stocks and to manage port- 
folios. Stockpak assists in evaluating and 
managing a portfolio of up to 100 securi- 
ties, with as many as 30 transactions on 
each issue. Up to 900 New York and 
American Stock Exchange and over-the- 
counter common stocks can be analyzed. 
Users can record buy and sell transactions, 
price, dividend information, and stock 



splits. Companies can also be analyzed. 
Designed for TRS-80 users, the four Stock- 
pak floppy disks contain the portfolio- 
management system, screen and select 
system, a report writer system, and a de- 
monstration data base. Stockpak is a crea- 
tion of the Standard & Poor's Corporation, 
and it is available for S49.95 at Radio 
Shack outlets. An annual subscription to a 
monthly update service is available for 
S200. 

Circle 400 on inquiry card 



APEX -Apple II Floppy- 
Disk Operating System 

The APEX disk operating system 
features a command structure that is 
similar to CP/M's. Twenty command 
words are contained within the system, 
and APEX has the ability to treat external 
programs as transient commands to the 
operating system. There is a scrolling 
editor that is compatible with the Videx 80 
character card. APEX can handle both 5- 
and 8-inch floppy and hard disks on the 
same system, and it is fully functional on 
single-drive and multidrive systems. Back- 
up files, a backup directory, read-after- 
write. and size limit checks are included. 
File allocation techniques make APEX's 
file handling four times faster than CP/M 's. 
Automatic default structures set up com- 
mand strings, file names, and extensions. 
A special device handler structure allows 
for interfacing nonstandard peripherals. 
The basic APEX package includes a two- 
pass resident assembler and a macro- 



editor. The assembler generates an 
alphabetized symbol table, a cross- 
reference table, and it is capable of 
assembling over 1900 lines per minute. 
The editor has 18 commands and 10 text 
buffers. APEX costs S99 from Apparat Inc. 
4401 S Tamarac Pky, Denver CO 80237, 
|303) 741-1778. 

Circle 401 on inquiry card 



TRS-80 
Program Generator 

The program Generate writes a three- 
program system (a selector, input/edit 
module, and print program) that will 
maintain a key file. The input/edit module 
allows the operator to add, delete, or 
change records and their keys in the file. 
The print program selects the fields to be 
printed, and it selects the range to appear 
on the listing. The program comes on a 
5-inch floppy disk with instructions that in- 
clude suggested applications. Generate re- 
quires a TRS-80 Model I Level II system 
with at least two disk drives and 32 K 
bytes of memory. A printer is optional, 
because the program can be user-adapted 
for a display screen. The program costs 
S 1 00 from Paul Swanson, do DataWorks 
Inc. 97 Jackson St, Cambridge MA 02 1 40, 
(617) 492-4305. 
Circle 402 on inquiry card 



OSI Software 

HEXDOS 2.3 is a disk operating system 
designed for use with OSI |Ohio Scientific] 
BASIC in ROM |read-only memory). Re- 
siding in 2 K bytes of memory, HEXDOS 
supports a real-time clock, named floppy- 
disk files, trace and single-stepping of pro- 
grams, a tone generator, multiple data 
files, editing capabilities, chaining of pro- 
grams, and an interactive disassembler. 
The price for a 5-inch floppy disk and 
manual is S27.50. 

FOCAL-65 is DEC'S [Digital Equipment 
Corporation) powerful, high-level lan- 
guage adapted for the 6502. It constructs 
programs that are more compact than 
similar BASIC programs. All in 8 K bytes, 
FOCAL-65 features 9-digit floating-point 
arithmetic and string handling functions. 
This language is available on a 5-inch flop- 
py disk or cassette with a manual for 
S49.50. Information on either software 
package can be obtained by writing The 
6502 Program Exchange, 2920 W 
Moana, Reno NV 89509. 

Circle 403 on inquiry card 



Where Do New Products Items Come From? 

The information printed in the new products pages of BYTE is obtained from 
"new product" or "press release" copy sent by the promoters of new products. If 
in our judgment the information might be of interest to the personal computing ex- 
perimenters and homebrewers who read BYTE, we print it in some form. We 
openly solicit releases and photos from manufacturers and suppliers to this 
marketplace. The information is printed more or less as a first-in first-out queue, 
subject to occasional priority modifications. While we would not knowingly print ' 
untrue or inaccurate data, or data from unreliable companies, our capacity to 
evaluate the products and companies appearing in the "What's New?" feature is 
necessarily limited. We therefore cannot be responsible for product quality or 
company performance. 



336 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



SOFTWARE 



Statistics Program 








Microstat is a statisticspackageforCP/M 
systems using BASIC-80. The program is 
chiefly oriented towards files. It includes a 
data-management subsystem that allows 
users to list, edit, destroy, delete, augment, 
sort, rank order, lag, move, merge, and 
transform data into new data. Programs 
are provided for statistical analysis in 
descriptive statistics, hypothesis testing, 
analysis of variance, scatterplots, correla- 
tion analysis, simple and multiple regres- 
sion, time series, and more. Microstat re- 
quires 48 Kbytes of memory, a single-den- 
sity 8-inch floppy-disk drive, and CP/M 
with BASIC-80. The program is available 
for the North Star disk operating system 
and BASIC; two disk drives are recom- 
mended. The cost is S250. A manual is 
S15. For further information, contact 
Ecosoft, POB 68602, Indianapolis IN 
46268, |3I7| 283-8883. 

Circle 404 on inquiry card 



CP/M 2.2 for 
OSI C3 Systems 

Known as CP/M2, this version of CP/M 
2.2 is compatible with the original OSI 
[Ohio Scientific) C3 computer's CP/M for- 
mat. All software and data on current OSI 
CP/M disks can be retained. With CP/M2, 
disk read operations are four to five times 
faster, and disk write operations can be as 
much as fifty times faster. The C3 CP/M2 
compensates for 2 or 4 MHz microproces- 
sor operation. The system also includes a 
CP/M disk-to-disk copy routine, a memory 
test program for the ZBO, and I/O (in- 
put/output) drivers for most OSI peri- 
pherals. CP/M2 is available for S200 from 
Lifeboat Associates, 1651 Third Ave, New 
York NY 10028. |212) 860-0300. 
Circle 405 on inquiry card 



CP/Modem 

Information Engineering has released 
CP/Modem. This package can send files 
between a CP/M computer and another 
computer, make a CP/M system function 
as a terminal to a remote computer, and 
allow users to operate, control, and per- 
form diagnostics on remote CP/M systems. 
A high-level protocol supports error 
checking and automatic retries during file 
transfers. File transfer is block-oriented. 
CP/M modem has three operating modes: 
terminal, termecho, and datalink, plus a 
transitional state command mode. The 
program has a split-screen display, with 
status indicators for data rates, mode, pari- 
ty, stop bits, word length, data type, and 
fjle name. The software supports data 
rates to 19.2 k bps and has full- and half- 
duplex modes. The CP/M Modem soft- 
ware package is distributed as object code 
on 5- and 8-inch floppy disks in CP/M for- 
mat. A single microprocessor license is 
S300. The manual is S 15. Mainframe sup- 
port for Digital Equipment Corporation's 
DECsystem-IO'is SI 500. For further infor- 
mation, contact Information Engineering, 
8 Bay Rd, POB 305, Newmarket NH 
03857, [603) 659-5891. 
Circle 406 on inquiry card 



muLISP/muSTAR-80 
Al Development System 

The muLISP-80 pseudocode LISP inter- 
preter can provide the basis for Al (artificial 
intelligence) projects. muSTAR-80 pro- 
vides a resident display-oriented editor 
and debugging facility. A pseudocode 
compiler in muLISP-80 produces extremely 
compact code. Dynamic allocation of 
data-space boundaries maximizes the use 
of programmable memory storage. Link- 
age to machine-language subroutines is 
easily performed. These two programs 
work on 8080-, 8085-, and Z80-based sys- 
tems. The system includes a library file that 
contains utility functions which provide 
examples of muLISP function definitions. 
Supplied with the system are several 
games, including a muLISP implementa- 
tion of the Eliza (Doctor) program. Micro- 
soft and Lifeboat Associates are offering 
muLISP/muSTAR-80 for a variety of micro- 
computers including those using the 
TRSDOS and CP/M operating systems, or 
equivalent systems. For details, contact 
Microsoft, 10800 NE 8th, Suite 819, 
Bellevue WA 98004, or Lifeboat Associ- 
ates, 1651 Third Ave, New York NY 
10028. 
Circle 407 on inquiry card 



CP/M-86 

Digital Research's CP/M-86 operating 
system is for any microcomputer that is 
based upon the Intel 8086/8088 micropro- 
cessors. CP/M-86 is a single-user operating 
system designed to take advantage of the 
8086's address space and speed, while ex- 
panding upon the facilities of CP/M. For 
compatibility, the file format of CP/M 2 has 



been retained. CP/M-86 can function as a 
slave node in a CP/NET network. Logical 
and hardware-dependent portions of the 
operating system are modularized. For 
more information, write to Harold Elgie. 
c/o Digital Research, POB 579, 801 
Lighthouse Ave, Pacific Grove CA 93950, 
(408) 649-3896. 

Circle 408 on inquiry card 




February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 337 



What's New? 



SOFTWARE 



VisiCalc Plus for the 
HP-85 Microcomputer 

VisiCalc Plus is an enhancement of the 
calculating and bookkeeping VisiCalc pro- 
gram for the Hewlett-Packard HP-85 
microcomputer. The program is useful for 
forecasting, budgeting, and other 
business and technical applications. The 
enhancements include a graphics pro- 
gram that lets users turn VisiCalc tables in- 
to four-color graphics. Line charts, bar 
charts, pie charts, and curve-fitting graphs 
are available along with graphics features, 
such as six styles of lines and hatchings. 
Twenty extra financial, statistical, and 
mathematics functions include internal 
rate of return, standard deviation, and 
variance. A "Help" facility displays infor- 
mation about a keyword typed by the 
user. VisiCalc Plus comes on tape cart- 
ridges and floppy disks for S200. A 
1 6 K-byte memory module is required to 
run the program. For information, contact 
Inquiries Manager, Hewlett-Packard Com- 
pany, 1507 Page Mill Rd, Palo Alto CA 
94304, (4-15) 857-1501. 

Circle 409 on inquiry card 



TRS-80 
Cash Register Software 

Computer Consultants', 312 Hoyt St, 
Dunkirk NY 14048, (7 76) 366-0766, TRS- 
POS allows a TRS-80 Level II to function as 
a point-of-sale terminal system. Some TRS- 
POS features are its English operator 
prompting and error messages and an 
electronic memo pad. With TRS-POS, the 
businessperson can keep track of sales 
commissions and inventory. The system 
can be user-configured to suit individual 
needs. The TRS-POS system comes in a 
16 K-byte package that allows 50 user- 
definable departments and in a 32 K-byte 
package that allows I 10 departments. 
TRS-POS prices begin at S 100. 

Circle 410 on inquiry card 



The Store Manager 

High Technology Inc. 800 1 N Classen 
Blvd. POB 14665, Oklahoma City OK 
73113, (405) 840-9900, is distributing The 
Store Manager. This program is a point-of- 
sale and inventoiy-control system. It pro- 
duces purchase orders, receiving reports, 
invoices, packing slips, and quotations. 
Sales totals and inventory-management 
reports are also handled. The program is 
useful for managing small businesses. The 
Store Manager runs on a 48 K-byte Apple 
II with at least two floppy-disk drives. The 
suggested retail price is S250. 

Circle 411 on inquiry card 



Pascal Express 
Utility Package 

This package of utilities and other soft- 
ware for the Apple II is designed to help 
experienced BASIC users become ac- 
quainted with UCSD Pascal. Four sections 
simplify I/O (input/output) formatting," 
allow access and change in the disk direc- 
tory from a Pascal program; perform in- 
teger, string, and real number conver- 
sions; and support files of variable-length 
records. Also included are Pascal 
demonstrations with listings on BASIC 
equivalents, a routine to view disk files in 
ASCII or hexadecimal code, a text format- 
ter, a program to maintain a variable- 
length data file, and a Happy Birthday sur- 
prise. A manual, a disk, and the source- 
code files cost 545 from Software Express, 
POB 50453, Palo Alto CA 94303, |4I5) 
856-9244. 

Circle 412 on inquiry card 



Multi-User, Multitasking 
Disk Operating System 

The Cromix operating system supports 
Cromemco's floppy- and hard-disk drives. 
It includes multiple hierarchical directories 
• and subdirectories; compatible I/O (input/ 
output), which supports- user redirection 
of I/O; a shell-sort program; a password 
security system," data and time support; file 
buffers; and swapping-free execution of 
tasks through bank selection. The Cromix 
operating system includes a CDOS Simula- 
tor that allows CDOS programs to be ex- 
ecuted directly. Cromix requires a mini- 
mum memory of 1 28 K bytes. A single 
64 K-byte memory card must be added for 
each additional user or task. Cromix is 
available on 5- or 8-inch floppy disks for 
S295. Inquiries can be addressed to 
Cromemco Inc. 2B0 Bernardo Ave, Moun- 
tain View CA 94043, |4l5) 964-7400. 

Circle 413 on inquiry card 



The Prisoner 

The Prisoner was inspired by the tele- 
vision series of the 1960s. Consisting of 
twenty interlinked games, the program 
places the player on an island housing a 
psychological prison camp. The player's 
task is to escape both the island and its at- 
tempts to extract information from him. 
The Prisoner requires an Apple computer 
with 48 K bytes and a single disk drive. 
The program lists for S 29.95. Contact Edu- 
Ware Services Inc, 22035 Burbank Blvd. 
#223, Woodland Hills CA 91367, [2 13) 
346-6783. 

Circle 414 on inquiry card 



Track 
Orders Daily 

CORP is a customer-order review pro- 
gram for a salesperson in any small- to me- 
dium-sized business. Designed with the 
TRS-80 Models I and II in mind, CORP 
tracks the daily orders of individual sales- 
persons. CORP allows management per- 
sonnel to monitor a salesman's perfor- 
mance and to know which customers 
have not placed an order since any par- 
ticular date. Different criteria for selecting 
reports on customer orders can be 
specified. CORP contains updating 
facilities and diagnostics. It is available on 
a 5-inch floppy disk, including documen- 
tation, for S 1 95 from B & B Software, POB 
2090, Ann Arbor Ml 48 1 06. 

Circle 415 on inquiry card 



Apple II 
Word Processor 

Computer Solutions, 6 Maize PI. 
Mansfield, Queensland 4 1 22, Australia, 
has announced its word-processor soft- 
ware for the Apple II. The software allows 
true uppercase and lowercase on the 
Apple. Full "mailmerge" facilities are in- 
cluded in the system. The software and 
manual are priced at S295. 

Circle 416 on inquiry card 



TFORTH 

TFORTH is a procedural language that 
specifies process rather than desired result. 
It produces a compact code that can be 
executed at high speeds. TFORTH uses a 
stack for parameters and a dictionary for 
words that allows new words to be 
created in terms of predefined words. 
New data types and new processes can 
become part of the language. TFORTH 
can be used to develop new languages, 
provide simple control of devices, and im- 
plement tasks requiring monitoring and 
decision. Certain hardware modifications 
can be eliminated by using TFORTH to do 
digital logic or data reduction. TFORTH is 
designed for the TRS-80 with 1 6 K bytes of 
programmable memory and a single 
floppy-disk drive using either TRS-DOS or 
NEWDOS. It costs SI 29.95 or S 136.95. 
depending on additions. Contact Sirius 
Systems, 7528 Oak Ridge Hwy, Knoxville 
TN 37921, |615) 693-6583. 



Circle 417 on inquiry card 



338 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



PUBLICATIONS and MISCELLANEOUS 



Sinclair ZX80 
Users Magazine 

Sync is a bimonthly magazine for users 
of the Sinclair ZX80 microcomputer. The 
publication carries articles about how best 
to use the features of the ZX80. Sync also 
carries financial analysis, statistics, simula- 
tions, and games. Sync has published pro- 
gram listings for Acey Ducey, Hurkle, and 
the Nicomachus "boomerang" puzzle. 
Reviews of software, peripherals, and 
books related to the ZX80 are also pro- 
vided. Subscriptions are S 10 per year from 
Sync, 39 E Hanover Ave, Morris Plains NJ 
07950, (201) 540-0445. 

Circle 418 on inquiry card 



Educational Catalog 

Marck publishes a free mail-order 
educational software catalog that has 
descriptions of hundreds of programs for 
small computers. Related products and ar- 
ticles are also included. Contact Marck, 
280 Linden Ave, Branford CT 06405, 
|203| 48 1-327 1. 

Circle 419 on inquiry card 



Article Index 

Magdex Research has announced a 
quarterly publication entitled The Article 
Index. The Index covers many articles, 
short notes, and other information con- 
tained in the top ten microcomputingjour- 
nals. The Index is divided into two sec- 
tions. The first section categorically lists all 
article titles and short paragraph locations. 
The second lists references by keyword. In 
all. The Index has over I 1 .000 references. 
Subscription rates are S7.50 for one year, 
S 13.50 for two, S l8forthree, and lifetime 
rates are S45. Charter subscribers receive 
indexes for 1977 thru 1980. Contact 
Magdex Research, POB 706, North Plains 
OR 97133. 

Circle 420 on inquiry card 



PGI Wholesale 
Publishes Price Card 

PGI Wholesale has published a quick- 
reference price list. The guide contains 
pricing information on microcomputer 
products from more than thirty-five 
manufacturers, including the Archives 
Business Computer. Contact PGI Whole- 
sale, 1425 W 12th PI, TempeAZ 85281, 
(800) 528-1415 or (800) 528-6450. 

Circle 421 on inquiry card 



Design Aids for 
Electronics 




This catalog has been designed for 
engineers and draftsmen in the electronics 
industry. It features templates containing 
the latest in logic and schematic sym- 
bology and component layout patterns. 
All symbols or patterns comply with ANSI, 
IEEE, IPC, and MIL-STD specifications. The 
catalog is available from Tangent 
Template Inc. POB 20704, San Diego CA 
92 I 20, (7 1 4) 292-0046. 

Circle 422 on inquiry card 



Continuous Forms 

Discount Data Forms Inc. 407 
Eisenhower l_n S. Lombard IL 60I48, 
(3 1 2) 629-6850, is marketing a line of con- 
tinuous computer forms. The product line 
includes stock invoices, statements, bills of 
lading, purchase orders, and voucher, 
payroll, and personal checks. A brochure 
and samples are available from the com- 
pany free of charge. 

Circle 423 on inquiry card 



Word Processing Report 

The Small Systems Group has begun 
publication of a series of product evalua- 
tion reports. The first report "Word Pro- 
cessing on Personal Computers," is now 
available. This report introduces word pro- 
cessing with sections on software, hard- 
ware, and applications. It describes Auto 
Scribe, Electric Pencil, Magic Wand, and 
WordStar word-processing programs. 
Single copies of the report are available for 
S 1 from the Small Systems Group, POB 
5429, Santa Monica CA 90405. (2 1 3) 

392-1234. Circle 424 on inquiry card 



Education Catalog 

The Micro Software Division of Charles 
Mann & Associates has compiled the 
Education Catalog. This catalog details 
educational programs for the Apple II, 
TRS-80, and Tl 99/4 microcomputers. The 
programs can be used to develop cus- 
tomized teaching programs, to teach 
BASIC programming, and to reduce ad- 
ministrative tasks. Grade reporting, class 
scheduling, and record-keeping programs 
are also described. These and other pro- 
grams have been designed by Charles 
Mann & Associates, which is located at 
7594 San Remo Trl, Yucca Valley CA 
92284, (714) 365-9718. 

Circle 425 on inquiry card 



Dual-Purpose Computer 
Checks from NEBS 

The 9022 computer checks are de- 
signed to be used for payroll or accounts 
payable. The stub portion is blank except 
for the customer's name and the con- 
secutive check number. The forms are 
available in quantities as low as 500 for 
S29.95. Prices include printing the 
customer's name and address, bank name 
and number, consecutive numbering, and 
inclusion of an MICR code line. Contact 
NEBS Computer Forms, 78 Hollis St, 
Groton MA 01450, (800) 225-9550, in 
Massachusetts (800) 922-8560. 
Circle 426 on inquiry card 



Speech Synthesis 
Evaluation Board 

An assembled circuit board for 
evaluating the operation and application 
of the Digitalker speech synthesis inte- 
grated-circuit set is available from National 
Semiconductor Corporation, 2900 Semi- 
conductor Dr, Santa Clara CA 95051, 
(408) 737-5000. The DTI 000 board re- 
quires a single 9 V power supply and a 
speaker for operation. It contains National 
Semiconductor's speech processor circuit, 
two speech ROMs (read-only memories), 
output filter, audio amplifier, keyboard, a 
microcontroller, and an EPROM (erasable 
programmable read-only memory). The 
speech ROMs enable users to link words 
consisting of numbers and letters, nouns, 
verbs, tones, and silence durations into 
phrases and sentences. National Semicon- 
ductor's Digitalker speech-synthesis 
systems utilize human speech and voice 
waveforms for digital encoding and 
storage. The DT 1 000 is available for S495. 

Circle 427 on inquiry card 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications lnc 339 



What's New? 



PERIPHERALS 




Enhanced AIO 
Board from SSM 

The SSM AIO serial and parallel Apple II 
interface board has been enhanced. The 
AIO now interfaces with serial and paral- 
lel devices simultaneously under Pascal. 
The RS-232 serial interface has three hand- 
shaking lines and eight data rates from 
I 10 to 9600 bps (bits per second). Addi- 
tional data rates are possible through ex- 
ternal input. Two bidirectional 8-bit paral- 
lel ports are provided with four additional 
interrupt and handshaking lines, as well 
as interface configurations that are pro- 
gammable and software controlled. The 
AIO includes firmware for controlling 
serial interface and software for driving 
parallel printers. It includes the cable 
assemblies necessary for parallel and serial 
interfaces, and a user's manual. Contact 
SSM Microcomputer Products, 2190 
Paragon Dr, San Jose CA 95131, (408) 

946-7400. Circle 433 on inquiry card 



PET Graphic 
Interface Board 

The MTU K- 1008-6 PET Graphic Inter- 
face adds high-resolution graphics to the 
PET computer. The expansion board fea- 
tures five ROM (read-only memory) soc- 
kets that can be set at the same or dif- 
ferent addresses with software control of 
whichever sockets are enabled. The 
board provides user control over a matrix 
of 64,000 dots. The device serves as an 
8 K-byte expansion memory when not 
used for graphics. On-board expansion 
allows use with an optional light pen. 
Graphics software is also offered. The 
board is priced at S320; connectors for 
older model PETs are S35; and connectors 
for the newer model PETs are S59. For 
more information, contact Micro Tech- 
nology Unltd, 2806 Hillsborough St, POB 
12106, Raleigh NC 27605, (919) 
833-1458. 
Circle 434 on inquiry card 



MPI's Model 88G Printer 

The Model 88G impact matrix printer 
features 100 cps (character per second) 
bidirectional or unidirectional printing, 
with throughput rates of up to 150 lines 
per minute. A full uppercase and lower- 
case 96-character ASCII (American Stan- 
dard Code for Information Interchange) 
set is printed in a 7 by 7 matrix, with print 
line formats of 80, 96, or 1 32 columns per 
line over an 8-inch print area. Double- 
width characters are software-selectable 
in any of the font styles or character den- 
sities. A high-resolution, dot-addressable 
graphics option can be added for plotting, 
printing of screen graphics, drawing of il- 
lustrations, or producing special characters 
and identification marks. Forms handling 
is carried out with a paper-feed system 
that can accept fanfold forms from 1 to 
9/2 inches in width. Sixteen selectable 
form lengths and a "skip-over-perf" 
feature are provided. The printer uses 
continuous-loop ribbon cartridges, and it 
has an RS-232C, and a parallel interface. It 
can also be interfaced to devices with an 
IEEE-488 bus output. A detachable roll 
paper holder, single-sheet feeder, and a 
2 K-byte buffer are available. The Model 
88G with the graphics option lists for 
S799. Contact MPI, 2099 W 2200 South, 
Salt Lake City UT 841 19, (801) 973-6053. 
Circle 432 on inquiry card 



Turn the TRS-80 into a 
Time-Sharing Terminal 

TERMCOM is a hardware and software 
package that turns the TRS-80 into a time- 
sharing terminal. TERMCOM hardware 
allows Level II users to utilize time-sharing 
systems without acquiring the Expansion 
Interface and RS-232 board. The software 
includes full paging capabilities, making it 
possible to store several screens of data, 
which are accessible at any time. The 
TERMCOM program allows lines to be 
scrolled off the screen while still remaining 
accessible in memory. The wrap-on-blank 
capability breaks long lines into two lines 
between words. For tabular materials, 
automatic left- or right-justification may be 
specified. The TERMCOM package can 
lock information on the top or bottom of 
the screen, while keeping the other por- 
tion free for normal use. Other features in- 
clude memory buffer-overflow protection, 
uploading and downloading of files from 
disk, and variable rates for file loading to 
match other systems used in time-sharing. 
It is compatible with all Radio Shack sup- 
plied products. The package costs 
S 169.95 from Statcom Corporation, 5758 
Balcones Dr, Suite 202, Austin TX 7873 1 , 
(512) 451-0221. 
Circle 435 on inquiry card 



340 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



SYSTEMS 



System Zero 
from Cromemco 

Cromemco's System Zero computer, an 
S-100 bus microcomputer, includes a 
Z80A-based single-card computer, I K 
bytes of programmble memory, 3 K bytes 
of Control BASIC in ROM (read-only mem- 
ory|, and three extra slots on the S-100 
bus. The system is designed for ROM pro- 
grams, but it can be expanded by add- 
ing memory and I/O cards. The System 
Zero/D is available with floppy-disk drives, 
the Z80A board, 64 K bytes of program- 
mable memory, and a disk-controller card. 
The controller contains RDOS-2, a disk 
operating system that reads and writes 
single- and double-sided and single- and 
double-density floppy disks, and also con- 
tains a systems diagnostic routine. Soft- 
ware for the System Zero includes RPG II, 
FORTRAN, COBOL, 16 and 32 K Struc- 
tured BASIC, LISP, word-processing, data- 
base management, business software, 
and operating systems. The System Zero 
list price is S 995, and the Zero/D has a list 
price of S2995. The Model DDF dual-disk 
drive is available for S1295. Contact 
Cromemco Inc. 280 Bernardo Ave, Moun- 
tain View CA 94043, (4 1 5) 964-7400. 
Circle 429 on inquiry card 



Microcomputers with 

High-Resolution 

Graphics Options 

The Dynamic Blackboard microcom- 
puter systems use the S-100 bus and a 
Z80A microprocessor. The systems sup- 
port either black-and-white, gray shades, 
or full-color graphics at a resolution of 640 
by 5 1 2 pixels. CP/M-compatible graphics 
software and Tektronix-emulation soft- 
ware are also available. Graphics printers 
are supported. Three Dynamic Blackboard 
systems are available: the Brilliant Ter- 
minal, the Standalone System, and the 
Network Configuration. The Brilliant Ter- 
minal is for larger mainframes, and it can 
be used as a stand-alone computer and 
color graphics terminal. The Standalone 
System has a graphics option, and the 
Network Configuration allows several 
microcomputers to share a disk subsystem 
and a printer. Prices for the single com- 
puters are in the S 10,000 to S 15,000 
range. For more information, contact the 
Cambridge Development Laboratory, 36 
Pleasant St, Watertown MA 02 1 72, (6 1 7| 
926-0869. 



Circle 430 on inquiry card 



SSM's Z80 
Microprocessor Board 

SSM Microcomputer Products, 2190 
Paragon Dr. San Jose CA 95131, (408) 
946-7400, has announced the CB2 Z80 
microprocessor board. The CB2 is capable 
of operating at 2 or 4 MHz, and it includes 
sockets for two 2716 or 2732 EPROMs 
(erasable programmable read-only mem- 
ories] or HM6I 16 2 K-byte programmable 
memories. The memory sockets can be 
enabled or disabled. Run/stop and single/ 
step switches are also included on the 
board to permit system evaluation 
without the need for a front panel. 

The CB2 also features a firmware-vector 
jump and an output port to control eight 
extended address lines. Memory can be 
expanded to more than 64 K bytes. Board 
jumpers can generate the proposed IEEE 
(Institute of Electrical and Electronics 
Engineers) S-100 signals. The board can 
emulate 8080 I/O (input/output) address- 
ing, and it is provided with an 8-bit output 
port for extended addressing. The CB2 re- 
quires + 8 V at 0.75 A. 



Circle 431 on inquiry card 



A MAJOR NEW YORK BANK 
INVITES YOU TO BANK AT HOME 



Our 

acc< 



Sof 
Thi 
thi 



By Personal Computer 

stem talks with yours 

ess to the bank for! 
bill pavi rig 
account transfers 
balance inquiry 
record keeping 

tware requires 4SK bytes of 

s is a pilot 

s message by 



A program diskette provides 



memory and one 



program. For more information, 
sending in the f o r m b e 1 o w . 



d i s k d rive, 
please terminate 



NAME 

ADDRESS ; C I T Y_ 



.STATE ZIP. 



TELEPHONE NO 

Name and type of system 

Do you have communications capability?-. 
If not> are you planning for it? 

MAIL FORM TO: Home Banking System 
P.O. Box 721 
Radio City Station 
---_ New York, New York 10101 






February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 341 



What's New? 



PERIPHERALS 



Ampex's Video Terminal 




Ampex Corporation, 200 N Nash St, El 
SegundoCA 90245, |2I3) 640-0150, has 
entered the video-terminal market with 
the Ampex Dialogue 80, a buffered edit- 
ing terminal that operates in conversa- 
tional or block modes. The terminal fea- 
tures a detached keyboard, lowercase 
descenders, and a 25th display line that 
allows operators to determine the status of 
various operational modes and note 
errors. Dialogue 80 has an RS-232C asyn- 
chronous interface that operates at half- or 
full-duplex and a standard serial printer in- 
terface. Scrolling is a standard feature in 
the conversational mode. The display 
features 24 lines by 80 characters. The for- 
mat is a 6 by 8 dot matrix in a 7 by 1 field. 
The terminal has reverse video, blink. 



blank, underline, and half-intensity 
features. Protected fields appear at half- 
intensity and cannot be changed when in 
the protect mode. Editing features include 
erase, insert, and delete character and line 
functions. The 128 symbols include 96 
ASCII (American Standard Code for Infor- 
mation Interchange) characters, 2 1 con- 
trol characters, and 1 1 characters to sup- 
port line drawings. Constants, screen for- 
mats, or command sequences for the ter- 
minal and host computer are user-pro- 
grammable. A 2 K-byte expansion mem- 
ory is optional. The Dialogue 80 is S I 1 49 
in single units. 

Circle 436 on inquiry card 



Portable 
Bar-Code Reader 




The Model 9400 bar-code reader is 
designed for in-house data collection. A 
bar-code alphanumeric keypad is pro- 
vided for manual data entry. Bar-code 
labels up to 32 characters long may be 
scanned. The memory has a 20 K-byte 
capacity. The user may select between a 
belt clip and a shoulder strap to carry the 
unit. The 9400 may be operated on-line in 
the terminal mode without affecting data 
in its memory, and a real-time clock 
feature is available to store time and date 
information. Previously stored data can be 
reviewed and edited. The Model 9401 
Charger/Interface unit provides two RS- 
232C connectors. Contact Wade T Nix- 
dorff at Interface Mechanisms Inc. POB N, 
Lynnwood WA 98036, (206) 743-7036. 

Circle 437 on inquiry card 



Info 2000s 
Performer Systems 

The Performer Systems are an entire 
line of business microcomputers offering 
word processing, billing, general account- 
ing, data communications, and record- 
keeping functions. One model, the Stan- 
dard Performer, uses 5-inch floppy-disk 
drives that store 400 K bytes of memory 
|about 200 typewritten pages). Another 
model, the Maxi Performer, uses 8-inch 
drives that can hold 1 .25 megabytes 
|about 600 typewritten pages). As a word 
processor, either Performer can handle 



documents such as contracts, engineering 
reports, and ordinary business cor- 
respondence. Functions include true pro- 
portional spacing, underlining, boldface, 
justification, centering, indentation, and 
more. Typical applications include inven- 
tory, purchase or sales orders, court or 
appointment calendars, and customer or 
prospective customer lists. Additionally, 
mailing labels and envelopes can be 
prepared. Facilities include complex sort 
sequences and selection criteria, full- 
formula arithmetic, and multilevel sub- 
totals and page breaks. Accounting 
capabilities include accounts receivable, 



accounts payable, general ledger, and 
financial statement preparation. A client- 
billing package for attorneys, accoun- 
tants, consultants, and other profes- 
sionals is available. The Performer also 
supports the WESTLAW automated legal- 
research system and the New York Times 
INFOBANK services. The systems are 
priced between SI 2,00 and SI 8,000, or 
they may be leased for S400 to S600 per 
month. Contact Info 2000 Corporation, 
20620 S Leapwood Ave, Carson CA 
90746, |2I3) 532-1702. 

Circle 438 on inquiry card 



342 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



PERIPHERALS 



On-Board Screen Memory with the 
V-100 Video Controller 




The V-100 video-controller board, with 
2 K bytes of on-board screen memory, can 
reduce central-processor overhead. It is 
fully compatible with the IEEE's (Institueof 
Electrical and Electronics Engineers) S-100 
bus standard. The V-100 can be I/O (in- 
put/output) mapped, so that the screen 
memory does not take up space in the 
user's system. Interfacing to the video 
monitor is handled by writing control in- 
formation to the V-100's logic. The board 
can display 24 lines by 80 characters in 7 
by 9 dot-matrix formats. Fonts are avail- 
able for standard ASCII (American Stan- 
dard Code for Information Interchange), 
or French, German, or Japanese char- 



acters. It also provides 16 user-program- 
mable graphic characters. The board can 
accept data at 2 megabytes per second, 
allowing data to be transferred to the 
screen at the processor speed. A compati- 
ble software package, VEDIT, allows 
screen editing with full cursor control, 
block moves, file handling, and more. It 
requires a CP/M-compatible operating 
system. The V-100 is priced at S450 per 
board, and VEDIT is SI 10. Contact 
Piiceon Inc. OEM Division, 2350 Bering 
Dr, San Jose CA 951 12. CompuView 
Products Inc. the maker of VEDIT, is 
located at 1531 Jones Dr. Ann Arbor Ml 

48107. Circle 439 on inquiry card 



TRS-80 Printer 

and Memory 

Expansion Module 

This printer/memory expansion module 
can add 16 K or 32 K bytes of dynamic 
programmable memory to a TRS-80 micro- 
computer. It can also drive Microtek's MT- 
80P dot-matrix printer or any Centronics- 
compatible printer. The module is housed 
in an aluminum case that sits under the 
video display. It is available in three con- 
figurations: the MT-32A, without memoiy 
for S99.50; the MT-32B, with 1 6 K bytes 
of programmable memory for S 1 59.50; or 
the MT-32C with 32 K bytes of memory 
for S 199.50. For further information, con- 
tact Microtek Inc. 9514 Chesapeake Dr, 
San Diego CA 92 1 23, (800) 84 1 - 1 08 1 . in 
California (714) 278-0630. 
Circle 440 on inquiry card 



High-Resolution 
H-8 Color Graphics 

The Heathkit H-8 is now able to 
generate high-resolution color graphics 
with the addition of this color graphics 
board. The board is fully compatible with 
the H-8. It contains 8 K bytes of static pro- 
grammable memoiy, which is address dip- 
switch selectable. On-board RF (radio fre- 
quency) modulation is included for output 
to color or black-and-white television. The 
board can generate eight graphic display 
modes, eight colors, and features a resolu- 
tion of 256 by 1 92 pixels. It is available in 
kit form for S379, or assembled and tested 
for S479. Request complete details from 
Owen Phairis Computer Products, POB 
3400, Big Bear Lake CA 92315, (714) 
585-8354. 

Circle 441 on inquiry card 



Apple Plug-Compatible 
Floppy-Disk Drive 




The A-70 and A-40 floppy-disk drives 
have a jumper-selectable boot PROM (pro- 
grammable read-only memory) for 13- or 
16-sector Integer BASIC- or Pascal-lan- 
guage cards as standard features. The 
A-40 drive provides 40 tracks of storage 
and track-to-track speeds of 5 ms for S495 
for the first unit and S395 for additional 
units. The A-70 has the same features as 
the A-40; however, it provides 70 tracks 
of storage and is priced at S675 for the first 
unit and S575 for additional units. For 
more information, contact Micro-Sci, 1 405 
E Chapman, Suite E, Orange CA 92666, 
(7 1 4) 997-9260. Circle 442 on inquiry card 



Power Supply on a Card 

An 8 W power supply has been in- 
troduced by Miller Technology, 1 6930 
Sheldon Rd, Los Gatos CA 95030, (408) 
395-2999. The PS-80 supplies + 5 V at 
800 mA, + 1 2 V at 1 50 mA, and - 5 and 
- 12 V at 150 mA. The power supply 
card is 11.5 by 16.5 cm (4/2 by 6/2 
inches), including the 22-pin edge con- 
nector. A standard fuse is supplied. A 
115V AC and a power-line switch can be 
connected with the supplied connectors. 
The PS-80 is available in kit form for S35 or 
assembled and tested for S60. 

Circle 443 on inquiry card 



PS-8 Power Supply 

Cromemco's PS-8 power supply is 
designed to power microcomputer sys- 
tems configured with the Cromemco 
CC-8 eight-slot card cage and any com- 
bination of S-100 boards. The PS-8 pro- 
vides one output of +7.5V/12A, 
+ 14.5V/2.5A, and -14.5V/1.0A. A 
system reset switch is built into the power 
supply. The supply is designed for 110 or 
220 V operation. Ambient temperature 
operation is from to 55° C. The power 
supply is available from Cromemco Inc. 
280 Bernardo Ave, Mountain View CA 
94043, (415) 964-7400. 
Circle 444 on inquiry card 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 343 



What's New? 



PERIPHERALS 



Bar-Code 
Reader for the Apple 




The ABT BarWand plugs into the Apple 
II or III and reads standard bar code. ABT 
has also developed a program to read 
UPC (Universal Product Code). Additional 
programs have also been created to print 
and read ABT's own LabelCode and 
Applesoft programs in Paperbyte Code. 
The latter two programs are forms of bar 
code that can be printed with a dot-matrix 
printer. When bar code is entered 
through the BarWand, a scan tone 
sounds indicating that the last line of data 
was correctly read. The suggested retail 
price of S 1 95 includes the BarWand and a 
demonstration floppy disk of the UPC, 
LabelCode, and Paperbyte programs. A 
ROM (read-only memory) multiprotocol 
BarWand I/O (input/output) board is also 
available. For more information, contact 
Advanced Business Technology Inc. 
1 2333 Saratoga-Sunnyvale Rd, Saratoga 
CA 95070, (408) 446-2013. 
Circle 445 on inquiry card 



SSI Band Printer Has 
900 Lines Per Minute 

SSI's B-900 printer features several 
bands and a 48-, 64-, and 96-character 
set, plus specialized and foreign character 
sets. The print speed is 1 1 00 Ipm (lines per 
minute) at 48 characters, 900 Ipm at 64 
characters, and 600 Ipm at 96 characters. 
Vertical spacing for multiple-form lengths, 
provisions for up to five copies, a 
diagnostic display, paper-out detect sen- 
sors, and print-to-bottom of the form 
capabilities are included. The B-900 is 
compatible with Digital Equipment Corpo- 
ration's DECsystems 10 and 20. Hewlett- 
Packard, Data General, SEL, Texas In- 
struments, Burroughs, and other minicom- 
puters and mainframes. Parallel interfacing 
is standard, and SSI also supplies serial syn- 
chronous and asynchronous interfaces. 
Contact Southern Systems Inc. 284 1 
Cypress Creek Rd, Ft Lauderdale FL 
33309, (800) 327-5602, in Florida (305) 
979-1000. 
Circle 446 on inquiry card 



96 Tracks Per Inch 5-Inch Floppy-Disk Drives 




The SA4 1 (single-sided) and the SA460 
(double-sided) drives feature unformatted 
capacities of 500 K bytes and 1 megabyte, 
respectively, using double-density record- 
ing. For faster access time, the drives in- 
corporate a helical cam v-groove lead 
screw for head positioning. The drives 
also use a DC spindle motor that allows 
the drive to be shut down when not in 
use. The drives can back up 5- to 
10-megabyte hard disks, including 
Shugart's SA400 and 450 drives. Other 
features of the drives include a track-to- 



track access time of 6 ms, a tachometer 
that provides servo speed control, and an 
activity indicator. A maximum recording 
density of 5876 bits per inch is another 
feature. Mean time between failures is 
8000 power-on hours. The SA410 costs 
S325 in OEM (original equipment manu- 
facturer) quantities of 100; the SA460 is 
priced at S400 in the same quantities. For 
further details, contact Shugart Associates, 
475 Oakmead Pky, Sunnyvale CA 94086, 
(408) 733-0100. 
Circle 447 on inquiry card 



Apple II Nine-Voice 
Music Synthesizer 

You can turn your microcomputer into 
a nine-voice music synthesizer with the 
AM-II package from Peripherals Plus. The 
AM-II package consists of the software 
and a board that plugs into the Apple II. 
The S 198 AM-II allows users to compose 
music with two game paddles. The music 
is displayed as notes on a music staff. 
From a menu at the bottom of the screen, 
users can select notes from a six-octave 
range, along with duration and other 
characteristics. The music is displayed with 
graphic animation during playback. Using 
the keyboard, the user has control of key, 
tempo, envelope values and duration, 
waveform, and length. The AM-II is avail- 
able from Peripherals Plus, 119 Maple 
Ave, Morristown NJ 07960, (800) 
63 1 -8 1 1 2, in New Jersey [20 1 ) 267-4558. 

Circle 448 on inquiry card 



Link Winchester 
ST-506 Disk Drives 
to GPIB Computers 

The MSC-9305 controller provides on- 
board interfacing to Seagate Technology's 
ST-506 disk drives, and incorporates the 
GPIB interface standard for attachment 
with computers using the GPIB standard 
bus. This will allow ST-506 drives to work 
with the PET, Xerox 13 50, and the Hew- 
lett-Packard HP-85 system. It can also be 
used with computers accommodating 
GPIB adaptors, such as the Apple II, DEC 
(Digital Equipment Corporation) systems, 
Prolog, and with computers using Intel's 
Multibus. The controller employs an in- 
tegrated data separator, automatic error 
correction, full-sector data buffer, and 
automatic position verification. The price 
of the MSC-9305 is S 700 from Microcom- 
puter Systems Corporation, 432 Lakeside 
Dr, Sunnyvale CA 94086, |408) 
733-4200. Circle 449 on inquiry card 



344 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



What's New? 



PERIPHERALS 



Touch-Input Video Display 




The VuePoint touch-input terminal is 7 
cm (2% inches) thick and has a 1 2-line by 
40-character flat-panel display. VuePoint's 
controller provides for up to fifty-one 
pages of information. A response is sent to 
the host computer by finger contact to 
any one of 240 discrete touch-sensitive 
locations of the display screen. Communi- 
cation is by selectable 300 to I 9,200 bps 



(bits per second) data rates via an RS-232 
interface. The controller for the display 
can be placed up to ten feet from the 
screen. Prices begin at S3500. For more 
information, contact General Digital Cor- 
poration, 700 Burnside Ave, East Hartford 
CT 06108, (203) 289-7398. 

Circle 450 on inquiry card 



Atari Memory 

Expansion Kit Has 

Supporting Software 

This memory expansion kit will upgrade 
Atari 8 K-byte programmable memory 
boards to 1 6 K bytes. The kit provides five 
times more program space in high- 
resolution graphics and allows access to 



higher resolution graphics. The S79.95 
price includes all hardware and instruc- 
tions. Software support includes graphics 
programs like Plot & Draw, which 
generates graphics quickly while saving 
data for incorporation into BASIC pro- 
grams. For more information, contact 
Mosaic Electronics, POB 748, Oregon City 
OR 97045, (503) 655-9574. 
Circle 451 on inquiry card 



The Model 460 
Paper Tiger Printer 

The Model 460 printer has throughput 
speeds of up to I60cps (characters per 
second), can produce letter-quality print, 
and provides a variety of programmable 
print-control functions. The 460 employs 
a horizontal and vertical overlay dot- 
matrix character formation technique and 
a 9-wire bidirectional print head. Control 
functions include proportional spacing, 
bold text printing, and print densities of 
1 0, 1 2, or 1 6.7 characters per inch. Auto- 
matic text justification, programmable 
horizontal and vertical tabbing, reverse 
paper feed, and positioning of characters 
to '/i 20 of an inch are other control features 
of the printer. It can print in 80-, 96-. and 
1 32-column formats. Foreign or custom 
character sets can optionally be added to 



or replace the standard ASCII (American 
Standard Code for Information Inter- 
change) character set; the printer allows 
uppercase and lowercase characters with 
descenders. Forms control features in- 
clude programmable top and bottom of 
form, perforation skip, and vertical and 
horizontal tabs. A microprocessor pro- 
vides an automatic memory, electronics, 
and print capability test. A 2 K-byte bu fer 
and the ability to print graphics such as 
bar codes, block letters, and illustrations 
are included. The 460 has an RS-232C 
serial and a Centronics-compatible parallel 
interface. Data rates from 1 1 to 9600 bps 
are switch-selectable. The price for the 
Model 460 Paper Tiger printer is S 1 295 
from Integral Data Systems Inc. Milford 
NH 03055, (603) 673-9 1 00. 

Circle 452 on inquiry card 



Three HP-85 Interfaces 

The three HP-85 interfaces are a serial 
(RS-232C-compatible) interface card, a 
general-purpose parallel I/O 
(input/output), and a BCD (binary-coded 
decimal) card. The serial-interface card 
provides the HP-85 with bit-serial asyn- 
chronous data communication capability, 
with support for RS-232C and current loop 
operations. Features include: user-pro- 
grammable data rates, parity, bits per 
character, and stop bits without changing 
physical switch settings. Other features in- 
clude full-duplex with I/O buffers, and a 
20 mA current loop. This card allows 
printers, modems, and other peripherals to 
be used with the HP-85. 

The general-purpose interface card pro- 
vides bit-parallel byte- and word-oriented 
interfacing. Two bidirectional ports and 
two output-only ports are on the card. 
The card can be configured as four sepa- 
rate 8-bit ports, two 1 6-bit ports, or two 
8-bit and one 1 6-bit ports. Paper-tape 
readers, punchers, and card readers can 
be interfaced with this card. 

The BCD card permits all data to be pre- 
sent simultaneously on a set of 48 wires. 
Instruments can output up to eleven BCD 
digits; two BCD instruments can be ac- 
commodated with the card. Typical ap- 
plications for this card are in voltmeters, 
counters, medical equipment, and elec- 
tronic scales. The serial-interface card is 
S395 and the other cards are S495. Con- 
tact the Inquiries Manager, Hewlett- 
Packard Company, 1 507 Page Mill Rd, 
Palo Alto CA 94304, (4 1 5) 857- 1 50 1 . 

Circle 453 on inquiry card 



6800/6809 
I/O Boards by Gimix 

The Gimix 2-port serial I/O board has 
two independent RS-232-compatible I/O 
ports, with handshaking, on a 30-pin 
board. It features programmable pinouts 
and independent data rate and interrupt 
jumpers for each port. The board is com- 
patible with the SS-50 and SS-50C bus 
configurations. The 2-port board, less 
cables, is priced at S 1 28.43. 

Also available is an 8-port serial I/O 
board that boasts eight independent RS- 
232-compatible I/O ports with hand- 
shaking — all on a 50-pin board. It features 
DIP-switch selectable data rates for each 
port, extended address decoding for the 
SS-50C bus, and selectable interrupts. An 
on-board data-rate generator permits rates 
of up to 38.4 k bps. This board costs 
S3I8.46, less cables. Complete details are 
available from Gimix Inc, 1 337 W 37th PI, 
Chicago IL 60609, (3 I 2) 927-5 5 1 0. 

Circle 454 on inquiry card 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 345 



Circle 250 on inquiry card. 



Pw 



LCD Digital 
Multimeter 




Model WD-747 



Large 3% digit 0.5" LCD readout. 
Side switches for easy one-hand 
use. 

Accuracy better than 0.8% DCV. 
Resolution down to 10CVV, 100/xA 
DC, 0.1H. 

Only DMM with built-in socket tor 
transistor h F £ testing. 
10MS1 input impedance, 10 amp 
DC range. 

Auto zero polarity. Full overload- 
protection. 

All functions color coded. 
Rugged orange-colored ABS 
plastic case. 

Complete with battery, deluxe test 
probes and spare fuse. 



Power Supplies 

WP-29 Monitor Isotap 




• Supply line: 105 to 130V, 48 to 500Hz • Isolated output: to 
1 50V 48 to 500Hz • Leakage: Less than 0.1 mA • Power rating 
(resistive load): 400VA • Meter: Taut band 3Vz" ±2% • Size: 
3%" x 8V4" x 8%' • Weight: 14'/ 2 lb. • Comes with output cable. 

WP-708 Triple Output 



Two 0-20 VDC supplies, 0-2A full load. May be used in series 
to provide 0-40 VDC, 0-2A . One 5 VDC (0.4A full load) fixed 
supply. Two digital voltmeters 0-99.9 VDC with separate inputs 
on the front panel. 



« 




Order with Confidence and get the Fordham Advanta ge! 



§ 



Uaii tot 

our prices TOLL FREE 

(800)645-9518 

1» ' in NY. Slale call (516)752-0050 



FORDHAM 

855 Conklin St. Farmingdale, N.Y. 11735 



■ Master Charge 

■ BankAmericard 

■ VISA ■ COD 

■ Money Order 

■ Check 
COD's extra 



S 



CEnTRonms 



AUTHORIZED DISTRIBUTOR 



VR Data, an international distributor 
of brand name hardware and 
peripherals to both business and 
personal users, has been a leader in 
sales and service since 1972. 

The Centronics line of dot-matrix and 
correspondence quality printers is 
known world-wide for its high quality 
and exceptional reliability. 

Centronics printers are designed for 
heavy use while their reasonable price 
makes them the obvious choice for 
even small applications. 

Centronics offers a wide range of 
printers to satisfy even the most 
demanding applications. 

Call VR Data today. 

Toll Free (1) 800-345-8102 In Pennsylvania (215) 461-5300 







WE SERVICE MANY BRANDS OF COMPUTER EQUIPMENT. 

CALL FOR CONSULATION AND ESTIMATE. 

DEALER INQUIRES INVITED • BIDS ACCEPTED 
777 HENDERSON BLVD. 
FOLCROFT, PA 19032 ORDER NOW • TOLL FREE 1 (800) 345-8102 • IN PENNSYLVANIA (215) 461-5300 



346 BYTE February 1981 



Circle 251 on inquiry card. 




vc/t- 



ELECTRONICS 



INTEGRATED CIRCUITS 



P.O. Box4430X 
Santa Clara, CA 95054 

Will calls: 2322 Walsh Ave. 
(408) 988-1640 TWX 910-338-2139 
Same day shipment. First line parts only. Factory tested. 
Guaranteed money back. Quality IC's and other compo- 
nentsatfactory prices. 



7-llON 



7J8SN 
?J9Qt, 

7-I93N 
7«5N 
74IQ0N 
7J107N 



74J67N 

74LS00 Til 

7«.S0DK 

74L502N 

74LS04N 

7JLS05N 

7JLS0BP. 

7JL510N 

7JLS13N 

74LS1JM 

74LS2DN 

7JLS2iN 

74L528H 

7JIS3CN 

7JLS33N 

741S3BN 

74LS74N 

74LS75N 

74LS90fl 

74LS93N 

74LS9SM 

74LS107N 

74LS1l?M 

MLSIIJr, 

74LSl3!h 

74LSI3EN 

7JLSI5IN 

7USIS5M 

74LSI57M 

74LSI62N 

74LS163N 



LINEAR 
CA30-S5 
CA3046 
CA3C61 

LM30IAN.AH 

LMTC5H 

LM307N 

LM3D8N 

LM3D9K 

LMIllMfJ 



LM3I7 



LM320K-5 
LM32CK12 
LM370K-I5 
LM3201-5 
LM320T4 
LM3201-12 
LM320M5 



LM340K-5 

LM3J0K-B 

LM340K-12 

LMJ4W-1S 

LM340KJ4 

LM34C1-S 

LM340T 8 

LM340T 12 

LM3401-15 

LM34C1 18 

LM340T 24 

LM35D 

LM377 

LM379 

LM380N 

LM3BI 

LM3H2 

IM70SH 

LM723HN 

LM733H 

LM74ICH 

LM74IN 

LM747H K 

LM748N 

LMI303N 



LM3905 

LM3W9JI 

MCMSBV 

NE550H 

HI555V 

NE5SGA 

NE565A 

N1566V 

NES67V 

NE570B 

781.05 

781.08 

78M05 

75108 

7549ICN 

75492CN 

754940 



8700CJ 
870 ICN ; 
87S0CJ 
LD130 
9400CJV F 
ICL7I03 



C0400I 
CD-JQ02 
COiOC6 
CD4O07 
CD4O08 
C04D0.9 
CDJ0I0 



CD40I6 
CQ40I7 
CD4018 
CC4019 
CO4C20 
CD.4Q2I 
CD4022 
CD4023 
CD4024 
CD4C25 



CD4Q26 
CD4027 
C04028 
CD4029 
CD4030 
CD4035 

rpjcjc 

CD4042 
I CD 4043 
i CD4014 
< CD404G 
CD4049 
CO4D50 
, CD4051 
. CO40E0 
i CD 4066 
i CD406B 
i CD4C69 
i CD4070 
i CQ407I 
, CD4072 
I CD4073 
I CD40':> 
I CD4076 
) CD4078 
I CQ4081 
I C04C62 
f COH H6 
I C04490 
C04507 
CO450B 
CD4S10 
CD4511 
I CD45I5 
r CD45I6 
) CD45I9 
I CD4520 
] CD4527 
i CD4528 
i £04553 
) CD4S6C 
) CD45B3 



74C10 
74C14 
74C20 
74C30 
74C48 
74C74 
74C76 
74C90 



74C221 
74C90i 
?;C<iC'i; 
74C914 
74C922 
D 74C923 
74C925 
74C926 
74C927 



2 M 2114L JSOir 
66 4116 200ns 



.... 5 SO 

- -J1I6 200ns 3500 

MM5262 40 

MM5280 3 00 

MMS320 9 95 

MM5330 5 94 

PD4I1D3 4 00 

PQ41ID 4 5 00 



>3 key ASCII keyC-oa 
! uliy «seniCled 
Enclosure Plashc 



91L02A 



2 SO 



HD0165-5 6 95 

MM57100 4 50 

GIAY385O0I 9 95 

MCM66751A 9 95 

9366 3 50 

4100 10 DC 

416 16 Q C 



IC SOCKETS 
Solder Tin Lc* Profile 
PIN 1 OP PIN 1UP 



WIRE WRAP LEVEL .1 



14 95 

2995 




40 




3 90 






Z 10 




MM5841 


14 45 












8 '5: 






8 9S 




MM 5 3 75 A A 


3 30 




mHS375aG 


4 90 












7 50 






1=) iJj 






4 95 




QSCC26CN 


3 75 






3 7S 




MM53104 


2 50 




MICROPROCESSOR 




6502 


SO 9i 




(oOi 


3 95 




6522 


9,95 




6300 


<; % 




68-02 


11 95 




6820 






68 ! .0 






■ 


5 95 




E0S5 


12 95 




■ 


^5 CO 




780 


■3 9; 




2S0A 


11 95 




e;u 


? 90 




8 = l -i 


3 95 




e ;■ i f. 




? rs 








. 


4 95 




H25' 






8253 


15 DO 




8255 


5 75 




: -.'-- 


10 95 




B259 


1495 




ieo3CPpMs 


13 95 




1B020P pl« 


l 7 95 




1661P 


9 50 




CDP1B02CD 






CDP1802O 


3500 




COP1B16P 


7 95 




UARI FIFO 






HV5-I013 


S5fl 






7 5C 


BS 


3341 


6 95 


1 i", 






J SO 


PP.0M 






W02A 


4 95 


h :..0 
3 10 


2708 
271611 


7 30 



10 Mil] 

18 MHz 
20 MKi 
32 MH: 
32768m 

1 84 32 MHl 
3 5795MH? 

2 OIO0 Mil; 

2 097152 MHi 

2 4576 MH; 

3 2769 MHj 
5 CG8S MH; 



6 S53G MM) -1 50 
14 31818 MH/ .| 25 

IB 432 MHi 4 50 

2? UB4 Mh.- 4 50 

KErBOARDENCOOERS 

AY5 2376 SI2 50 

AV5 3600 17 95 

AY5-9100 1050 

AY5 9200 16 50 

74C922 5 50 

74C923 5 50 

HD065 5 6 95 

AY5 9460 10 50 
D Cunneclail RS232 

OB25P 3 E2 

0B25S 520 



Gr«, Orange Yellow JumDD 25 

Ctiplile LED Maunllng Clips 5 Si 25 
specify red. imtti gieen yeii<,n cicj'I 

CONTINENTAL SPECIALTIES in slock 
CcmplelelineolbieadEioardlesleqiJip 
MAX. 100 B digil Frcq Clr. 1149.95 

OK WIRE WRAPTOOLSin ttack 
PorlaBle Mulllmeler Sifl 00 

Cumplele liieol AP Protects in -A-.-.n 

SPECIAL PRODUCTS 



W7i 00 

S229 CO 



11? 5G 
147 75 



UEDmul- 
89 95 
2 6 95 



IK 16K Eprom Kit 

Hess cfiOMSI 589 CO 
Mclherboni) £3900 



Clock Caleni 
15 MH; Fre 

3D Mil; F.tq 



7KANSFORMEF1S 

(j'.'j ()■:,, • 

12 Von 300 mi liar 
12 6V CT E00 mi 
12V 350 mi *itl rji 
17V CI 250 ml *ll 
24VC1 100 mi 



DISPLAY LEOS 



DL7D4 CC 300 1 75 

DL707.OL70'R CA 300 I 00 

OL727/728 CA.CC 500 1 90 

DL747.750 CA.CC 600 1 95 



3 20 8 2716 5 ' 

1 69 2732 

2 75 275B 
8197 169 874IA 
8T98 1 69 8748 

8748 8 

87S5A 

MDS/MEMORY R.1MN82S23 

Jini.1 ■/ 85 NB75123 

95 NB2S126 

1 45 N82S179 

165 NB2S131 

4 95 NB2SI36 

3 75 NB2S137 
3 75 OM8577 



BT25 
BI26 

8128 



2102-1 

2102AL4 

21C2AN-2L 



13 50 

0IIB9 00 

5500 

19 SO 
5500 
5500 

5500 
55 CC 



FNDB00.BO7 CC E 



. 



:i lype 012 
:i type 6 75 



14610 
MAN4640 
MAN47I0 
MAN4740 
MAh66'0 
MAh671C 
MANC740 



MAI002A. C. E 
MAI0I2A 
l02P3lrinslDrm>r 
MA10I2A TianjlDii 



-P 3 95 8723 

I 3 75 

L 300ns 4 25 



BSfl Controller S39.95 



PROM Eraser 

assembled. 25 PROM capacity S37.50 
(with timer $69.50). 6 PROM capacity OSHA/ 
UL version $69.50 (with timer $94.50). 

Z80 Microcomputer 

16 bitl/O, 2 MHz clock. 2K RAM. ROM Bread- 
board space. Excellent lor control. Bare Board 
$26.50. Full Kit $99.00. Monitor $20.00. Power 
Supply Kit $35.00. Tiny Basic $30.00 

S-100 Computer Boards 

8K Static Godbout Econo HA Kit 149.00 
16K Static Godbout Econo XIV Kit 269.00 
24K Static Godbout Econo XX-24 Kit 414.00 
32K Static Godbout Econo XX-32 Kit 537.00 
16K Dynamic RAM Kit 289.00 

32K Dynamic RAM Kit 328.00 

64K Dynamic RAM Kit 399.00 

Video Interface Kit $139.00 

80 IC Update Master Manual $39.00 

Comp. ICdata selector, 2700 pg. master reference 
guide. Over 51,000 cross references. Free update 
service through 1980. Domestic postage $3.50. 

Modem Kit $60.00 

State of the art, orig., answer. No tuning neces- 
sary. 103 compatible 300 baud. Inexpensive 
acoustic coupler plans included. Bd. only $17.00 
LRC 7000 + Printer $389.00 
40/20 column dot matrix impact, std. paper. 
Interface all personal computers. 

64/40/32/20 version $405.00. Optional cables 
available. 

LRC 7000 printer interlace cable tar Super Elt 
with software $26.00 



NiCad Battery Fixer/Charger Kit 

Opens shorted cells that won't hold a charge 
and then charges them up, all in one kit w/full 
parts and instructions. $7.25 

Rockwell AIM 65 Computer 

6502 based single board with full ASCII keyboard 
and 20 column thermal printer. 20 char, alphanu- 
meric display, ROM monitor, fully expandable. 
$375.00. 4K version $450.00. 4K Assembler 
$65.00, 8K Basic Interpreter $100.00. 

Special small power supply for AIM65assem. in 
frame $54.00. Complete AIM65 in thin briefcase 
with power supply $499.00. Molded plastic 
enclosure to fit both AIM65 and power supply 
$47.50. Special Package Price: 4K AIM, 8K Basic. 
power supply, cabinet $599.00 

AIM65/KIM/VIM/Super Elf 44 pin expansion 
board; 3 female and 1 male bus. Board plus 3 
connectors $22.95. 

60 Hz Crystal Time Base Kit $4.40 

Converts digital clocks from AC line frequency 
to crystal time base. Outstanding accuracy. 

Video Modulator Kit $9.95 

Convert TV set into a high quality monitor w/o 
affecting usage. Comp. kit w/full instruc. 

Multi-volt Computer Power Supply 

8v 5 amp. ±18v .5 amp, 5v 1.5 amp. -5v 
.5 amp, 12v .5 amp, — 1 2v option. ±5v. ±12v 
are regulated. Basic Kit $29.95. Kit with chassis 
and all hardware $43.95. Add $4.00 shipping. Kit 
of hardware $14.00. Woodgrain case $10.00. 
$1.50 shipping. 



RCA Cosmac 1802 Super Elf Computer $106.95 



Compare features before you decide to buy any 
other computer. There is no other computer on 
the market today that has all the desirable bene- 
fits of the Super Ell for so little money. The Super 
Elf is a small single board computer that does 
many big things. It is an excellent computer for 
training and for learning programming with its 
machine language and yet it is easily expanded 
with additional memory, Full Basic, ASCII 
Keyboards, video character generation, etc. 
Before you buy another small computer, see if it 
includes the following features: ROM monitor; 
State and Mode displays: Single step; Optional 
address displays; Power Supply, Audio Amplifier 
and Speaker; Fully socketed for all IC's; Real cost 
of in warranty repairs; Full documentation. 
The Super Ell includes a ROM monitor for pro- 
gram loading, editing and execution with SINGLE 
STEP for program debugging which is not in- 
cluded in others at the same price. With SINGLE 
STEP you can seethe microprocessor chip opera- 
ting with the unique Quest address and data bus 
displays before, during and alter executing in- 
structions. Also. CPU mode and instruction cycle 
are decoded and displayed on 8 LED indicators. 
An RCA 1861 video graphics chip allows you to 
connect toyourown TV with an inexpensive video 
modulator to do graphics and games. There is a 
speaker system included for writing your own 
music or using many music programs already 
written. The speaker amplifier may also be used 
to drive relays for control purposes. 
A 24 key HEX keyboard includes 16 HEX keys 



plus load, reset, run, wait, input, memory pro- 
tect, monitor select and single step. Large, on 
board displays provide output and optional high 
and low address. There is a 44 pin standard 
connector slot for PC cards and a 50 pin connec- 
tor slot for the Quest Super Expansion Board. 
Power supply and sockets for all IC's are in- 
cluded in the price plus a detailed 1 27 pg. instruc- 
tion manual which now includesover40 pgs. of 
software info, including a series of lessons to 
help get you started and a music program and 
graphics target game. Many schools and univer- 
sities are using the Super Elf as a course of study. 
OEM's use it for training and R&D. 
Remember, other computers only offer Super Elf 
features at additional cost or not at all. Compare 
before you buy. Super Elf Kit $106.95, High 
address option $8.95, Low address option 
$9.95. Custom Cabinet with drilled and labelled 
plexiglass front panel $24.95. All metal Expan- 
sion Cabinet, painted and silk screened, with 
room for 5 S-100 boards and power supply 
$57.00. NiCad Battery MemorySaverKit $6.95. 
All kits and options also completely assembled 
and tested. 

Questdata, a software publication for 1802 com- 
puter users is available by subscription for 
$12.00 per 12 issues. Single issues $1.50. Is- 
sues 1-12 bound $16.50. 
Tiny Basic Cassette $10.00, on ROM $36.00, 
original Elf kit board $14.95. 1802 software; 
Moews Video Graphics $3.50. Games and Music 
$3.00, Chip 8 Interpreter $5.50. 



Super Expansion Board with Cassette Interface $89.95 



This is truly an astounding value! This board has 
been designed to allow you to decide how you 
want it optioned. The Super Expansion Board 
comes with 4K of low power RAM fully address- 
able anywhere in 64K with built-in memory pro- 
tect and a cassette interface. Provisions have 
been made for all other options on the same 
board and it fits neatly into the hardwood cabinet 
alongside the Super Elf. The board includes slots 
for up to 6K of EPROM (2708. 2758, 2716 or Tl 
2716) and is fully socketed. EPROM can be used 
forthemonitorandTinyBasicorotherpurposes. 
A IK Super ROM Monitor $19.95 is available as 
an on board option in 2708 EPROM which has 
been preprogrammed with a program loader/ 
editor and error checking multi file cassette 
read/write software, (relocatable cassette file) 
another exclusive from Quest. It includes register 
save and readout, block move capability and 
video graphics driver with blinking cursor. Break 



Quest Super Basic V5.0 

A new enhanced version of Super Basic now 

available. Quest was the first company 
worldwide to ship a full size Basic for 1802 
Systems. A complete function Super Basic by 
Ron Cenker including floating point capability 
with scientific notation (number range 
-.17E W ). 32 bit integer -2 billion: multi dim 
arrays, string arrays; string manipulation; cas- 
sette I/O; save and load, basic, data and ma- 



points can be used with the register save feature 
to isolate program bugs quickly, then follow with 
single step. If you have the Super Expansion 
Board and Super Monitor the monitor is up and 
running at the push of a button. 
Other on board options include Parallel Input 
and Output Ports with full handshake. They 
allow easy connection of an ASCII keyboard to the 
input port. RS 232 and 20 ma Current Loop for 
teletype or other device are on board and if you 
need more memory there are two S-100 slots for 
static RAM or video boards Also a 1K Super 
Monitor version 2 with video driverfor full capa- 
bility display with Tiny Basic and a video interface 
board. Parallel I/O Ports $9.85, RS 232 $4.50, 
TTY 20 ma l/F $1.95, S-100 $4.50. A 50 pin 
connector set with ribbon cable is available at 
$15.25 for easy connection between the Super 
Elf and the Super Expansion Board. 
Power Supply Kit for the complete system (see 
Multi-volt Power Supply). 



chine language programs; and over 7 b state- 
ments, functions and operations. 
New improved faster version including re- 
number and essentially unlimited variables. 
Also, an exclusive user expandable command 
library. 

Serial and Parallel I/O included. 
Super Basic on Cassette $55.00. 



Gremlin Color Video Kit $69.95 

32 x 16 alpha/numerics and graphics; up to 8 
colors with 6847 chip, 1K RAM at E000. Plugs 
into Super Elf 44 pin bus. No high res. graphics. 
On board RF Modulator Kit $4.95 



1602 16K Dynamic RAM Kit $149.00 

Expandable to 32K. Hidden refresh w/clocks up to 4 
MHz w/no wait states Addl 16K RAM $63.00 
Super Elf 44 pin expansion board; 3 female and 1 
male bus. Board plus 3 connectors $22.95 
Tiny Basic Extended on Cassette $15.00 

(added commands include Stringy, Array, Cas- 
sette I/O etc.) 

S-100 4-Slot Expansion $ 9.95 

Super Monitor VI. I Source Listing $15.00 



Elf II Adapter Kit $24.95 

Plugs into Elf II providing Super Elf 44 and 50 pin 
plus S-100 bus expansion. (With Super Ex- 
pansion). High and low address displays, state 
and mode LED's optional $18.00. 



Super Color S-100 Video Kit $129.95 

Expandable to 256 x 192 high resolution color 
graphics. 6847 with all display modes computer 
controlled. Memory mapped. 1K RAM expanda- 
bleto 6K. S-100 bus 1802, 8080, 8085, 280 etc. 
Editor Assembler $25.00 

(Requires minimum of 4K tor E/A plus user 
source) 

1802 Tiny Basic Source listing $19.00 

Super Monitor V2.0/2.1 Source Listing $20,00 



TERMS: {5.00 mln. order U.S. Funds. Call) residents add 6% tax. 

$10.00 mln. BankAmerlcard and Master Charge accepted. {1.00 Insurance optional. 
Postage: Add 5%. C.O.D. {10.00 mln. order. 



FREE: Send tor your copy ol our NEW 1980 



Circle 252 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



347 



Circle 253 on inquiry card. 



WAMECO 

THE COMPLETE PC BOARD HOUSE 
EVERYTHING FOR THE S-100 BUSS 




MEM-3, 32K STATIC RAM BOARD 



* 32K of 2114's 



* Full 24 line address decoding. 
(Or bank select like the MEM-2) 

* Expandable in 1K increments. 
(Board disabled for unloaded RAM) 



* Bi-directional capability on data lines. 
(Board may be used as upper or lower 8 bits 
on a 16 bit bi-directional buss.) 

* Addressable in 8K boundary within the 64K 
boundary selected. 

* Kits less RAM $112.95. 

With 2114L-4 $475.95. 

With 2114L-2 $549.95. 

Bare board $ 35.95. 

Available mid January. 



FUTURE PRODUCTS: 80 CHARACTER VIDEO BOARD. 
Z-80 CPU BOARD WITH ROM, 8 PARALLEL PORT I/O BOARD. 

DEALER INQUIRIES INVITED, UNIVERSITY DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE 

AT YOUR LOCAL DEALER 

MOST PRODUCTS FOR IMMEDIATE SHIPMENT. NO 4-8 WEEK DELAYS REQUIRED FOR OTHERS. 



W7J7C 



inc. 



WAMECO, INC., P.O. BOX 877 • 455 PLAZA ALHAMBRA • EL GRANADA, CA 94018 • (415) 726-6378 



HOBBYWORLD's 
PRODUCT SPECIAL OF THE MONTH 

D.C. HAYES 
Micromodem 100 

A complete data communications system 
for S-100 microcomputers. It combines the 
capabilities of a serial interface card and an 
acoustic coupler. Also allows progammable 
auto dial, auto answer. 
Order by Catalog Number 2656 




$339.95 («9. $379.95) 



How to Order: Order by mail or phone (toll-free outside California). Pay by check, M.O., Visa 

or Mastercard. Please include Card No., exp. date, and inter-bank no. on chargecard orders. 

C.O.D.'s add $1.25 add'l. Add $2.00 shipping and handling for UPS Ground and $3.50 for UPS 

Air. Mail orders: Include this ad. Phone orders: Specify Feb. Byte Special. 

If the D.C. Hayes special price caught your eye, then order your FREE 
Hobbyworld Catalogue TODAY. It's filled with hundreds of quality products and 
special prices. Look thru the Hobbyworld Catalogue in the comfort of your home. 

It's a great way to shop! 




i FREE Hobbyworld Catalogue 



~l 



HOBBYWORLD 

ELECTRONICS, INC. 



B2 



19511 Business Center Drive, Dept 
Northridge, California 91324 

in U.S.A. (800) 423-5387 
local and outside U.S.A. (213) 886-9200 

348 BlfTE February 1981 



I N 

I 
I 



ame 



Company 



I Address 



I 



City 



State 



_Zip_ 



Circle 254 on inquiry card. 




THE STAR MODEM 



From Livermore Data Systems 



RS232 MODEM 
IEEE488 MODEM 
RS232 CCITT 
IEEE 488 CCITT 



SALE $135 

SALE $245 

$170 

$280 



STAR Modem is the price performance leader with a full 
2 YEAR FACTORY WARRANTY. 




WE CARRY THE BLACK APPLE 



_ Bell & Howell 

MADl EXCLUSIVELY f OH RE LI >. HOWFl I BY 

jcippkz computer inc. 



EBS Business System (or PET/CBM $795 

Extremely comprehensive package for small business. 
Fully integrated inventory and accounts receivable system 
including invoices, packing slips, mail labels, statements, 
bank deposit slips, and 17 reports. Allows any of -1 
standard letters to be merged with customer record info on 
either a selective or complete file basis. Demo disk and 
system description available for $3.00. 

0Z2 Data Base System lor C B M B03Z $335 

Flexible file handling and report writing package for such 
applications as: Inventory Control; Management Informa- 
tion; Mailing List; Scheduling; Medical Record Keeping; 
Accounting. 



KM MM Pascal lor PET $75 

Subset of standard Pascal with true machine language 
translator for faster execution. 16K with tape or disk 



EARL lor PET (disk file based) $65 

Editor, Assembler, Relocater, Linker to generate relocat- 
able object code. 



(UIIF0RTH+ lor PET/CBM $65 

A full-featured FORTH with extensions conforming to Forth 
Interest Groupstandards. Includesassembler.string process- 
ing capabilities, disk virtual memory multiple dimensioned 
arrays, floating point and integer processing. 



Ml PLOT Intelligent Plotter 
by Watanabe Instruments (Digiplot) 



SPECIAL 
$1145 




• Incorporates all intelligent functions required for pro- 
ducing graphs and drawings including 8 vector and 4 
character commands. 

• Distance accuracy within 1%, repetition accuracy 
within .01 inches, programmable step size .004 inches, 
internal interpolation in .002 steps. 

• Solid and broken line types can be specified. 

• Character generator for letters, numerals and symbols. 
Characters can be enlarged and rotated in four orienta- 
tions. 

• Coordinate axes can be drawn by simply specifying the 
graduation inteival and number of repetitions. 

• Self test mode automatically drawscompletetest pattern. 

• Printer mode outputs character data in 16 sizes with 4 
orientations. 

• Connection to any microcomputer using parallel 7-bit 
ASCII code. 

• Can use simple cable to parallel port, or special inter- 
face to IEEE or other. 

• Modular control circuit and mechanical construction. 

• Uses any hard fiber-tip pen. 

• Uses 11x17 paper. 

Includes power supply, I/O connector, 2 pens, 50 sheets of 
paper, and complete manual. 



6502 


7.45 10/6.95 50/6.55 100/6.15 


6502A 


8.40 10/7.95 50/7.35 100/6.90 


6520 PIA 


5.15 10/4.90 50/4.45 100/4.15 


6522 VIA 


6.45 10/6.10 50/5.75 100/5.45 


6532 


7.90 10/7.40 50/7.00 100/6.60 


2114-L450 


3.45 20/3.35 100/3.25 


2114-L200 


4.15 20/3.95 100/3.75 


2716 EPROM (5 volt) 10.45 5/9.90 10/9.50 


TMS 2532 EPROM 29.00 


4116-200 pi RAM (NEC) 8 tar 35.00 


S-100 Wire Wrap 


2.65 






commodore 



CBM-PET SPECIALS 

<<«, Up to $235 free 

/^y merchandise with purchase of 
>i one of following CBM-PET items! 




CASSETTES - AGFA PE-61 1 PREMIUM 

High output, low noise, 5 screw housing, labels. 
C-10 10/5.65 50/25.0C 100/48.00 

C-30 10/7.30 50/34.00 100/66.00 

All other lengths available. Write for price list. 



FREE 

8032 32K - 80 Column CRT $1795 235 

8016 16K - 80 Column CRT $1495 205 

8050 Dual Disk Drive-1 ,020.000 Bytes $1795 235 



A 



ATARI 800 $777 

All Atari Modules 20% OFF 

SPECIAL-purchase ATARI 800, receive 
extra 8K memory FREE. 
EDUCATIONAL PLAN - buy 2 ATARI 
Computers, receive 1 ATARI 4O0 FREE! 



DISKS 

(write for quantity prices) 



SCOTCH (3M) 5" 10/2.85 50/2.75 100/2.65 

SCOTCH (3M) 8" 10/2.95 50/2.85 100/2.75 

Maxell5" Double Dens. 10/4.25 50/4.10 100/3.95 

Maxell8" Double Dens. 10/4.65 50/4.50 100/4.35 

Verbatim 5" 10/2.45 50/2.40 100/2.35 

(add .75 for 5" Verbatim plastic storage box) 

Verbatim 8" Dbl. Dens. 10/3.35 50/3.25 100/3.15 

BASF 5" soft 10/2.60 20/2.50 100/2.40 

BASF 8" soft 10/2.40 20/2.35 100/2.30 

Diskette Storage Pages 10 for 3.95 

Disk Library Cases 8" - 2.85 5" - 2.1 5 




CBM Modem - IEEE Interface 
CBM Voice Synthesizer 
8N Full size graphics keyboard 
16K Full Size Graphics or 

Business Keyboard 
32K Full Size Graphics or 

Business Keyboard 
2040 Dual Disk Drive - 343,000 bytes 
2022 Tractor Feed Printer 
C2N External Cassette Deck 
Used PETs (8, 16, and 32K) 
WRITE FOR SYSTEM PRICES 

"EDUCATIONAL DISCOUNTS** 

Buy 2 PET Computers, get 1 FREE 

CBM Full Size Graphics Keyboard $ 74 

WordPro III - 32K CBM, disk, printer $170 

WordPro IV - 8032, disk, printer $255 



$395 50 
$395 50 
$795 100 

$995 150 

$1295 205 

$1295 205 

$795 100 

$95 12 

CALL 



EPSON MX-80 Printer 


$545 


STARWRITER Daisy Wheel Printer 


$1500 


Centronics 737 Printer 


$790 


NEC Spinwriter- parallel 


$2500 


XYMEC Hl-Q 1 000 Intelligent Daisy Wheel 


$2150 


Leedex Video 100 12" Monitor 


$129 


ZENITH DATA SYSTEMS 




Zenith Z19 Terminal (factory asm.) 


$735 


Zenith Z89 with 48K 


$2150 


SYM-1 


$209 


SYM BAS-1 BASIC or RAE-1/2 Assembler 


$ 85 


KTM-2/80 Synertek Video Board 


$349 


KIM-1 (add $34 for power supply) 


$159 


Seawell Motherboard - 4K RAM 


$195 


Seawell 16K Static RAM - KIM, SYM, AIM 


$320 




VISICALC for PET, ATARI 

BPI General Ledger, A/P, A/R for PET 



Programmers Toolkit - PET ROM Utilities $34.90 

PET Spacemaker Switch $24.90 

Dust Cover for PET $6.90 

IEEE-Parallel Printer Interface for PET $65.00 

IEEE-RS232 Printer Interface for PET $149.00 



115 E. Stump Road 
Montgomeryville, PA 18936 



215-699-5826 



A B Computers 



KL-4M Four Voice Music Board and Visible Music 
Monitor (4 Voice) for PET $59.90 

FLEXFILE Database-Report Writer by Michael Riley 
Flexible file handler for PET/CBM 

MICRO-REVERSI for PET by M Fchaei'Ri ley" $9.95 
Machine language version— you can't win at Level 5. 

PAPER-MATE 60 Command PET Word Processor $29.95 
Full-featured version by Michael Riley 

A P Products 15% OFF 
APHobby-Blox 15% OFF 

ALL BOOK and SOFTWARE PRICES DISCOUNTED 

The 8086 Book (Osborne) $12.75 

Z8000 Assembly Language Programming $10.60 

PET Personal Computer Guide (Osborne) $12.75 

PET and the IEEE-488 Bus (Osborne) $12.75 

6502 Assembly Language (Osborne) $ 9.90 

Programming the 6502 (Zaks) $10.45 

6502 Applications Book (Zaks) $10.45 

6502 Software Cookbook (Scelbi) $ 9.45 

CP/M Handbook (w/ MP/M) Zaks $1 1.85 



WRITE FOR CATALOG. 

Add Si 25 per order tor shipping We pay balance ol UPS surface charges 
on all prepaid. orders Prices listed are on cash discount basis Regular 
prices slightly higher 



$170 
$270 



Circle 255 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 349 



Circle 256 on inquiry card. 



>! 



CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SYSTEMS 



32K RAM BOARD A&T. 

450 NSEC $579.95, 200 NSEC $629.95 

16K RAM A&T. 

450 NSEC $255.95, 200 NSEC $285.95 

64K DYNAMIC A&T. 

200 NSEC $579.95 

Z80 PROCESSOR A&T $259.00 

DISC CONTROLLER $339.95 

APPLE IEEE INSTRUMENTATION INTERFACE 
KIT 7490. Kil $275.00 

ARITHMETIC PROCESSOR FOR APPLE 7811A. 
Kil $325.95 

APPLE ASYNCHRONOUS SERIAL INTERFACE 
7710A. Kil $89.95 

APPLE SYNCHRONOUS SERIAL INTERFACE 

7712A. Kil $89.95 

ALL OTHER CCS PRODUCTS AVAILABLE 



BStTl 



PB-1 2708 & 2716 Programming Board with pro- 
visions for 4K or 8K EPROM. No external supplies 
required. Textool sockets. Kil $143 00 

CB-1A 8080 Processor Board. 2K of PROM 256 
BYTE RAM power on/rest Vector Jump Parallel 
port with status. Kil ..$146.00 PCBD $31.95 

VB-3 80x24 VIDEO BOARD. Graphics included. 
4MHZ $379.95 

10-4 Two serial I/O ports with full handshaking 
20/60 ma current loop: Two parallel I/O ports. 
Kit $168.00 PCBD $31.95 

VB-IC 64 x 16 video board, upper lower case Greek 
composite and parallel video with software, S-100. 
Kit $143.00 

CB-2 ZB0 CPU BOARD. Kit $199 95 

AIO APPLE SERIAL/PARALLEL $144.95 

ALL OTHER SSM PRODUCTS AVAILABLE 



/inc. WAMECO INC. 



MEM-3 32K STATIC RAM 2114 24 bit 

addressing $32.95 

FDC-1 FLOPPY CONTROLLER BOARD will drive 
shugart, pertek, remic 5" & 8" drives up to 8 drives, 
on board PROM with power boot up, will operate 

with CPM'" (not included). PCBD $43.95 

FPB-1 Front Panel. IMSAI size, hex displays. Byle, 

or instruction single slep. PCBD $48 50 

QM-12 MOTHER BOARD, 13 slot, terminated, S-100 

board only $39.95 

CPU-1 8080A Processor board S-100 with 8 level 

vector interrupt. PCBD $28.95 

RTC-1 Realtime clock board. Two independent in- 
terrupts. Software programmable. PCBD $25 95 

EPM-2 2708/2716 16K/32K EPROM CARD. 

PCBD $28.95 

QM-9 MOTHER BOARD. Shorl Version of QM-12. 

9 Slots. PCBD $33.95 

MEM-2 16Kx8 Fully Buffered 2114 Board. 

PCBD $28.95 

PTB-1 POWER SUPPLY AND TERMINATOR BOARD, 

PCBD $28.95 

IOB-1 SERIAL AND PARALLEL INTERFACE. 
2 parallel, one serial and cassette. 

PCBD $28.95 

2708 $7.50 2114L 450 NSEC $4.99 

2716 $25.95 2114L 200 NSEC $5.99 



WMB 



(415) 726-9121 
P.O. Box 955 • El Granada, CA 94018 

Please send for IC, Xistor and Computer parts list 




FEB. SPECIAL SALE 
ON PREPAID ORDERS 

(Charge cards not included on tints offer) 

WAMECO PCBD SALE. 

MEM-2 EPM-2 $25.95 

IOB-1, CPU-1 $24.95 

PTB-1, RTC-1 $22.95 

QMB-12 $32.95 QMB-9 $29.95 

MIKOS PARTS ASSORTMENT 
WITH WAMECO AND CYBERCOM PCBDS 
MEM-2 with MIKOS =7 16K ram 

with L2114 450 NSEC $229.95 

MEM-2 with MIKOS "13 16K ram 

with L2114 200 NSEC $249.95 

CPU-1 with MIKOS *2 8080A CPU $99.95 

OM-12 with MIKOS C A 13 slot mother 

board $1 1 0.95 

RTC-1 with MIKOS "5 real time clock $65.95 

EMP-1 with MIKOS "10 4K 1702 less 

EPROMS $ 49.95 

EPM-2 with MIKOS "11 16-32K EPROMS 

less EPROMS $65.95 

QM-9 with MIKOS "12 9 slot mother 

board $99.95 

FPB-1 with MIKOS *14 all parts 

for front panel $144.95 

MIKOS PARTS ASSORTMENTS ARE ALL FACTORY MARKED 
PARTS. KITS INCLUDE ALL PARTS LISTED AS REQUIRED 
FOR THE COMPLETE KIT LESS PARTS LISTED. ALL SOCK- 
ETS INCLUDEO 

LARGE SELECTION OF LS TTL AVAILABLE 
PURCHASE S50 00 WORTH OF LS TTL AND GET 
10°oCREDITTOWARD ADDITIONAL PURCHASES. 
PREPAID ORDERS ONLY. 



number, interbank num. 



VISA or MASTERCHARGE. Send account 
ber, expiration date and sign your order. Appro* postage wil 
be added. Check or money order will be sent post paid in U.S. 
It you are not a regular customer, please use charge, cashier's 
check or postal money order. Otherwise there will be a two- 
week delay for checks to clear. Calif, residents add 6% tax. 
Money back 30-day guarantee, we cannot accept returned IC's 
that have been soldered to. Prices subject to change without 
notice. $10 minimum order. $1.50 service charge on orders 
less than $10.00. 





BECKIAN E 








ALL PRIME QUALITY - NEW PARTS ONLY 
























SATISFACTION GUARANTEED. 












EDGE CARD CONNECTORS: 


GOLD PLATED: 














Abbreviations: S/E Solder Eye 


. S/T Sold Tail: 


W/W Wire Wrap. 








PART # DESCRIPTION. Row Sp. 


1 9pc. 


1 0-24pcs 


25pcs. Up. 


.156" CONTACT CENTER CONNECTORS. 








D' TYPE SUBMINIATURE CUNNECTURS. 






BRAND: 


TEXAS INST. 








PART * DESCRIPTION. 


Row Sp. 


1 9pc. 


10-24pcs. 25pcs. Up. 




QUANTITY 






4070 




13.9588, 


•3.55ee. 


(3.15.8. 


15105 


6112 SIE PET/NSC 


.140 


• 1.86 


• 1.65 »1.45 








4090 


501100 ImsaiWIW .250 


4.3088. 


3.65bb. 


3.4588. 


15110 


6112 SIT PETINSC 


.140 


1.65 


1.65 1.50 


PART NUMBER DESCRIPTION. 19pcs. 10 24pcs. 


2599pcs. 




BRANO: 


SULLINS: u.l Rag. 








15137 


6112 SIT PETINSC 


.200 


1.80 


1.54 1.45 


DF 


9P Mele •1.66ee. 11.4000. 


•1.30ae. 




12986S 


501100 Soldar Eye .140 


6.808a. 


6.10BB. 


5.4588. 


15175 


61 SIE Sgle Row 




1.70 


1.50 1.30 


DF 








129670 


50/100 SIT Imiai .250 


4.50ee. 


4.1 Oaa. 


3.70 


15270 


16120 SIE 


.146 


2.15 


1.95 1.70 


DF 


1109631 2 pc. Grey Hood. 1.50ea. 1.35ee. 






12987S 


501100 WIW Imiai .250 


5.25 


4.75 


4.20 


15275 


10126 SIT 


.140 


2 00 


1.85 1.60 








129BB5 


50I1DOSIT Altair .140 


4.95 


4.45 


3.95 


15435 


12124 SIE PET 


.140 


2.66 


2.35 2.10 


DA 


15P Male 2.35ee. 2.15ee. 


2.0088. 




129990 


501100 SIT Cromnrn. .250 


4.75 


4.25 


3.60 


15440 


12124 SIT PET 


.140 


2.65 


2.40 2.15 


DA 


15S Female 3.25B0. 3.1088. 


2.9088. 














15445 


12124 SfT PET 


.200 


2.75 


2.50 2.20 


DA 


512111 1. pc. Grey Head 1.40ee. 1.20ss. 


1.15oa. 




OTHER . 


125" CONTACT CTR CONNECTORS 








15505 


15136 SIE GRI Key 


.146 


2.50 


2.25 2.00 


OA 


51226 1 2 pc. Block Hood 2.50ee. 2.25ee. 


2.0088. 




12305 


22144 SIE No Eari .140 


4.15 


3.75 


3.35 


15510 


15130 SIT GRI Key 


.140 


2.40 


2.15 2.95 


OA 


1109632 2 pc. Grey Hood t.60aa. 1.35ee. 


1.30oe. 




12759 


36172 SIT .140 


6.40 


4.85 


4.35 


15515 


15130 WIW GRI Key .200 


2.60 


2.35 2.10 


DB 
DB 


25P Mele 2.60ee. 2.B0ee. 
25S Female 3.60ee. 3.40ea. 


2.4088. 
3.2088. 




12790 


40160 WIW .250 


8.30 


6.65 


5.00 


15600 
15616 


16136 SIE 
16136 SIT 


.140 
.140 


3.35 

3.00 


3.05 2.70 
2.70 2.46 




.100" CONTACT CTR CONNECTORS: 








15815 


18136 WIW 


.200 


360 


3.20 2.90 


UB 


512121 1 pc. Grey Hood 1.50ee. 1.30ee. 


l.lOaa. 




10046 


13126 SIE No Eari .146 


346 


3.05 


2.15 


15700 


22144 SIE KIMIVEC 


.140 


2.96 


2.90 2.75 


DB 


512261 2 pc. Block Hood 1.96ee. 1.65ea. 


1.4588. 




10260 


25150 SIE TRS 66 .146 


4.56 


4.05 


360 


15705 


22144 SIT KIMIVEC .140 


3.96 


3.30 3.06 










10175 


26146 SIE TRS 80 .146 


5.85 


5.35 


4.75 


15716 


22144 WIW KIMIVEC .200 


3.49 


3.20 2.65 


Dr. 


37P Mele 4.20ee. 4.00ea. 


3.70oa. 




10190 


26146 WIW TRS B6 .200 


3.30 


3.00 


2.15 


15875 


25150 SIE 


.140 


4.65 


4.20 3.75 


DC 




5.5088. 




10190 


26140 SIT TRS 66 .146 


3.20 


2.90 


2.55 


15B66 


25150 SIT 


.140 


4.55 


4.10 3.65 


no 




1.75D0. 




10405 


36172 SIE Vactar .140 


5.50 


4.90 


4.40 


15665 


25150 WIW 


.200 


4.85 


4.35 3.96 










10490 


36172 WIE Vector .200 


5.80 


6.25 


4.65 


16115 


36172 SIE 


.140 


6.50 


5.05 5.20 


uu 


50P Mele 5.50ee. 5.108a. 


4.7588. 




10500 


36172 SIT Vector .146 


5.70 


4.20 


4.66 


16120 


36172 srr 


.140 


6.55 


5.90 5.25 


DU 


50S Female 9.4DOB. 8.60BB. 


B.OOeo. 




10535 


40160 SIE PET .140 


6.86 


5.35 


4.75 


16125 


36172 WIW 


.200 


6.75 


6.16 5.46 


UU 


512161 1 pc. Cray Hood 2.40ee. 2.20ee. 


2. 0088 




10540 


40166 WIW PET .200 


6.00 


5.40 


4.86 


16145 


36172 srr 


.200 


6.50 


5.65 5.26 


UU 


1109635 2 pc. Grey Hood 2.60a8, 2.40aa. 


2.1088 




10550 
10565 


40160 srr pet .140 

43166 SIE C0SIELF .146 


5.80 
6.95 


5.25 
6.25 


4.65 
5.55 


16235 
16246 


43166 SIT Mat 6666 .146 
43166 WIW Mot 6660 .200 


6.60 
7.60 


5.95 5.30 
7.65 6.25 


D 


20418-2 Hardware Set .90ee. .OOea. 
11 Hood Sell 


.7088. 




10605 


43166 SIT C0SIELF .146 


6.60 


6.95 


5.30 


16260 


43166 SIT Mat 6666 .200 


6.50 


5.65 5.20 








10595 


43I66WIWC0SIELF .200 


6.90 


6.20 


5.95 


16725 


43186 SIE Mot 6600 .146 


7.20 


6.50 5.75 










10615 


43I66SITC0SIELF .200 


6.80 


8.10 


5.40 


K1 


PalKeys 




.15 


.12 .10 














IC. SOCKETS GOLD. 














COOLING 


FANS. 




TERMS: MINIMUM ORDER: S 15.00 ADD S1 


.35 For 








WIWRAP 3 TURN 












Extra Ouiet. 




Handling & Shipping. Orders over S 30.00 in th 


! U.S.A. 








14 pio 


•0.46 ee 




14 pin 




• 0.15 ee. 


1 to 4 




• 18.00 oa. 




We Pay the Shipping. CALIF. RESIDENTS: Please Add 








16 pin 


0.54 ee 




16 pin 




0.17 ee. 


5 to 9 




17.00 oe. 




6% Sales Tax. 

NOTE: NO COD. OH CREDIT CARD ORDERS 
ACCEPTED. 


WILL BE 




.6060A PRIME 






























•5.00 ee. 






CONNECTORS F 


)R CENTRONICS 706 SERIES. 
hnnol 57 30366 


PHONE: 213-988-6196 


BECKIAN ENTERPRISES 




EIA 8 CONDUCTOR CABLES Bft. Una. 








CLASS #1 Type 


Cobles. 




1 






MAIL ORDERS TO: 


P.O. BOX #3089 










1. to 4 pes. 
5 to 9 pes. 


•22.00 
19.00 




6 


to 9 pes. 




6.00 ■«■ 








SIMI VALLEY, CA 93063 





350 BYTE February 1981 



Circle 257 on inquiry card. 



DIGITAL RESEARCH COMPUTERS 

(214)271-3538 



32K S-100 EPROM CARD 
NEW! 





USES 2716's 
Blank PC Board - $34 

ASSEMBLED & TESTED 
ADD $30 

SPECIAL: 2716 EPROM's (450 NS) Are $11.95 EA. With Above Kit. 



KIT FEATURES: 

1 Uses +5V only 2716 (2Kx8) EPROM's. 

2 Allows up to 32K of software on line 1 

3. IEEE S-100 Compatible. 

4. Addressable as two independent 16K 
blocks. 

5. Cromemco extended or Northstarbank 
select. 



7. Any or all EPROM locations can be 

disabled. 
S. Double sided PC board, solder-masked, 

silk-screened. 
9. Gold plated contact fingers 

10. Unselected EPROM's automatically 
powered down for low power. 

11. Fully buffered and bypassed. 



6. On board wait state circuitry if needed. 12. Easy and quick to assemble. 



32K SS-50 RAM 



$ 379 00 k,t 



For2MHZ 
Add $10 



Blank PC Board 

$50 




For SWTPC 
6800 - 6809 Buss 



Support IC's 

and Caps 

$19.95 

Complete Socket Set 

$21.00 



Fully Assembled, 

Tested, Burned In 

Add $30 



At Last! An affordable 32K Static RAM with full 
6809 Capability. 

FEATURES: 

f. Uses proven low power 2114 Static RAMS. 

2. Supports SS5DC - EXTENDED ADDRESSING. 

3. All parts and sockets included. 

4. Dip Switch address select as a 32K block. 

5. Extended addressing can be disabled. 

6. Works with all existing 6800 SS50 systems. 

7. Fully bypassed. PC Board is double sided, 
plated thru, with silk screen. 



16K STATIC RAM KIT-S 100 BUSS 




.'HTiTiTiTTTmTW'TlfmTnmi 

1. Addressable as four separate 4K Blocks. 

2 ON BOARD BANK SELECT circuitry (Cro- 
memco Standard 1 ). Allows up to 512K on line 1 

3 Uses 2114 (450IMS) 4K Static Rams 

4 ON BOARD SELECTABLE WAIT STATES. 

5. Double sided PC Board, witnsolder mask and 
silk screened layout. Gold plated contact fingers 

6. All address and data lines fully buffered. ASSEMBLED & TESTED-ADD $35 

7 Kit includes ALL parts and sockets 

8 PHANTOM is jumpered to PIN 67 
9. LOW POWER: under 1 5 amps TYPICAL from 
the »8 Volt Buss 

10 Blank PC Board can be populated as any 
multiple of 4K. 



BLANK PC BOARD W/DATA-$33 

LOW PROFILE SOCKET SET-$12 

SUPPORT IC'S & CAPS-$19.95 



OUR #1 SELLING 
RAM BOARD! 



*&* STEREO! Afe*. 

S-100 SOUND COMPUTER BOARD 



COMPLETE KIT! 
$8495 

(WITH DATA MANUAL) 



At last, an S-100 Board that unleashes the full power of two 
unbelievable General Instruments AY 3-8910 NMOS computer 
sound IC's. Allows you under total computer control to 
generate an infinite number of special sound effects for 
games or any other program. Sounds can be called in BASIC. 
ASSEMBLY LANGUAGE, etc. 
KIT FEATURES: 
» TWO Gl SOUND COMPUTER IC'S. 

* FOUR PARALLEL I/O PORTS ON BOARD 

* USES ON BOARD AUDIO AMPS OR YOUR STEREO. 
» ON BOARD PROTOTYPING AREA. 

* ALL SOCKETS PARTS AND HARDWARE ARE INCLUDED 

* PC BOARD IS SOLDERMASKED. SILK SCREENED. WITH GOLD CONTACTS 
» EASY, QUICK. AND FUN TO BUILD WITH FULI INSTRUCTIONS 

* USES PROGRAMMED I/O FOR MAXIMUM SYSTEM FLEXIBILITY 
Both Basic and Assembly Language Programming examples are included 

SOFTWARE: 
SCL'"is now avail able! Our Sound Command Language makes writing Sound Effects programs 
aSN AP1SCL'" also includes routines for Register-Examine-Modify, Memory-Examine-Modify, 
and Play-Memory. SCL" is available on CP/M' compatible diskette or 2708 or 2716. Diskette - 
$24.95 2708 - 519.95 2716 - S29.95. Diskette includes the source EPROM'S are ORG at 
E000H 



16K STATIC RAM SS-50 BUSS 

PRICE CUT! 



1 1 Illl;l'l:iftl;|'|;t-I:i I 



$ 195 



KIT 



FULLY STATIC! 



FOR 2MHZ 
ADD $10 



iiiiiiiiiiiiiiii 




FOR SWTPC 
6800 BUSS! 



ASSEMBLED AND 
TESTED - $35 



KIT FEATURES 

1 Addressable on 16K Boundaries 

2 Uses 2114 Static Ram 

3 Fully Bypassed 

4 Double sided PC Board Solder mask 
and silk screened layout 

5 /*'! Parts and Sockets included 

6 Low Powei Under 1 5 Amps Typical 



BLANK PC BOARD— $35 COMPLETE SOCKET SET— $12 

SUPPORT IC'S AND CAPS— $19.95 



BLANK PC 

BOARD W/DATA 

$31 



4K DYNAMIC RAM BLOWOUT! 

SAME AS INTEL 2107B! 

4K RAMS AT AN UNBELIEVABLE 50C EACH!!! 

Prime, new, National Semi., 1979 date coded, lull spec, parts. N.S. 
#MM5280-5N. Same as INTEL 2107B-4, T I. TMS4060, NEC UPD41 1, etc. 
We bought a HUGE QTY. from a West Coast Distributor at truly 
DISTRESS PRICES! One ol the most popular and reliable RAM's ever 
made. These parts have been used by almost all Major Computer Main 
Frame Mfg. the world overi Arranged as 4K x 1 , 270 NS Access Time, 22 
Pin Dip. These units DO NOT use multiplexed addressing, thus making 
REFRESH and other timing very simple. See INTEL MEMORY DESIGN 
HANDBOOK for full application notes. The NAT. SEMI. MEMORY DATA 
BOOK is available at most Radio Shack Stores. Prime units in original 
factory tubes! 

.^ #5280-5N 4096 BITS x 1 270 NS ACCESS 

^%»^ 8 FOR $4.95 32 FOR $16 

FACTORY CASE (450 PCS) — $180 
Sockets Special: 22 Pin Low Profile (With Purchase ot 5280s) 8 FOR S1. 



COMPUTER PARTS SPECIALS 

74LS175 - .99 8035 Intel Single Chip CPU 6.95 

74LS240 - 1.19 Signetics 2901 4 Bit Slice - 6.95 

74LS241 - 1.19 AMD 2903 4 Bit Super Slice - 12.50 

74LS244 - 1.19 AMD 29705 Dual Port RAM - 8.95 

74LS373 - 1.29 Intel 2716-1 (350 NS) - 12.95 



NEW! G.I. COMPUTER SOUND CHIP 

AY3-8910. As featured in July. 1979 BYTE 1 A fantastically powerful Sound & Music 
Generator Perfect for use with any 8 Bit Microprocessor Contains 3 Tone Channels. 
Noise Generator. 3 Channels of Amplitude Control 16 hit Envelope Period Control. 2-6 
Bit Parallel I/O. 3 D to A Converters, pins much more 1 All in one JO Pin DIP. Super easy 
interface to the S-100 or other busses $11.95 PRICE CUT! 

SPECIAL OFFER: 5 14. 95 each Add $3 for 60 page Data Manual 



Digital Research Computers 

** (OF TEXAS) ' 

P.O. BOX 401565 • GARLAND, TEXAS 75040 • (214) 271-3538 



TERMS: Add $1 50 postage. We pay balance. Orders under $15 add 75<t 
handling No COD. We accept Visa and MasterCharge. Tex. Res. add 5% 
Tax. Foreign orders (except Canada) add 20% P & H. Orders over $50, add 
85$ for insurance. 



'TRADEMARK OF DIGITAL RESEARCH. 

Circle 258 on inquiry card. 



WE ARE MOT ASSOCIATED WITH DIGITAL RESEARCH OF CALIFORNIA. THE SUPPLIERS OF CPM SOFTWARE. 

BYTE February 1981 351 




64K BYTE EXPANDABLE RAM 

DYNAMIC RAM WITH ON BOARDTRANSPARENT 
REFRESH GUARANTEED TO OPERATE IN 
NORTHSTAR. CROMEMCO, VECTOR GRAPHICS, 
SOL. AND OTHER 8080 OR Z-80 BASED S100 
SYSTEMS «4MHZ Z-80 WITH NO WAIT STATES. 
. SELECTABLE AND DESELECTABLE IN 4K 
INCREMENTS ON 4K ADDRESS BOUNDARIES. 
. LOW POWER-8WATTS MAXIMUM. 
. 200NSEC 4116 RAMS 
. FULL DOCUMENTATION. 
. ASSEMBLED AND TESTED BOARDS ARE 
GUARANTEED FOR ONE YEAR AND 
PURCHASE PRICE IS FULLY REFUNDABLE IF 
BOARD IS RETURNED UNDAMAGED WITHIN 
14 DAYS. 

ASSEMBLED/ 
TESTED 

64KRAM $595.00 

48KRAM S5Z9.00 

32KRAM $459.00 

16KRAM $389.00 



SI00 MAINFRAME 
AND CARD CAGE 

* W/ SOLID FRONT PANEL . . S239.00 

* W/ CUTOUTS FOR 2 MINI-FLOPPIES . . . S239.00 

* 30 AMP POWER SUPPLY S119.00 

* 8 SLOT MOTHERBOARD S149.00 

1 9 SLOT MOTHERBOARD $199.00 



1EK MEMORY EXPANSION KIT 
ONLY S58 
FOR APPLE, TRS-80 KEYBOARD, EXIDY, 
AND ALL OTHER 16K DYNAMIC SYS- 
TEMS USING MK4116-3 OR EQUIVALENT 
DEVICES. 

* 200 NSEC ACCESS, 375 NSEC CYCLE 

* BURNED IN AND FULLY TESTED 

• 1 YR. PARTS REPLACEMENT 
GUARANTEE 

• QTY. DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE 




VISTA V-200 MINIFLOPPY SYSTEM 

• S1 00 DOUBLE DENSITY CONTROLLER 

• 204 KBYTE CAPACITY FLOPPY DISK 
DRIVE WITH CASE & POWER SUPPLY 

• MODIFIED CPM OPERATING SYSTEM 
WITH EXTENDED BASIC 

$695.00 



COmPUTER DEVICES 

1230 W.COUinS AVE. 

ORflflGe, Cfl 92668 

(714)633-7280 



32K BYTE MEMORY 

RELIABLE/COST EFFECTIVE EXPANDABLE BAM FOR 

650Z AND 6BO0 SYSTEM-AIM 65-'KIM'SYM-PET - S44-BUS 

. PLUG COMPATIBLE WITH THE AIM-65/SYM EXPANSION 
CONNECTOR BY USING A RIGHT ANGLE CONNECTOR 
(SUPPLIED) MOUNTED ON THE BACK OF THE MEMORY 
BOARD. 

. MEMORY BOARD EDGE CONNECTOR PLUGS INTO THE 
6800 S 44 BUS. 

• CONNECTS TO PET OR KIM USING AN ADAPTOR CABLE. 

• RELIABLE-DYNAMIC RAM WITH ON BOARD INVISIBLE 
REFRESH-LOOKS LIKE STATIC MEMORY BUT AT 
LOWER COST AND A FRACTION OF THE POWER 
REQUIRED FOR STATIC BOARDS. 

• USES +5V ONLY. SUPPLIED FROM HOST COMPUTER. 

. FULL DOCUMENTATION. ASSEMBLED AND TESTED 
BOARDS ARE GUARANTEED FOR ONE YEAR AND 
PURCHASE PRICE IS FULLY REFUNDABLE IF BOARD IS 
RETURNED UNDAMAGED WITHIN 14 DAYS. 

ASSEMBLED WITH 32K RAM $395.00 

S WITH 16K RAM S339.00 

TESTED WITHOUT RAM CHIPS $279.00 

HARD TO GET PARTS (NO RAM CHIPS) 

WITH BOARD AND MANUAL $109.00 

BARE BOARD S MANUAL $49.00 



ififcMiftmw 




PET INTERFACE KIT-CONNECTS THE 32K RAM BOARD TO 
A 4K OR 8K PET. CONTAINS: INTERFACE CABLE, BOARD 
STANDOFFS, POWER SUPPLY MODIFICATION KIT AND 
COMPLETE INSTRUCTIONS S49.00 



U.S. PRICES ONLY 



Add-On 

Disk Drive 

Subsystems 

FOr Apple, TRS-80, S-100 
Based Computers 




Expansion and enhanced capabilities are key words in achieving full utilization of your computer system. Our complete line of LOBO disk 
drive subsystems are the ideal, cost-effective way to provide the expansion capabilities you need to meet your system growth requirements. 
All of our subsystems are complete, thoroughly-tested, 100% burned-in, and feature a 1 year 100% parts/labor warranty. 



APPLE 



3101 Minifloppy, 31011 Minifloppy w/interlace card 

6101CA One SA800 in cabinet w/power, DDC* Controller, cable and manual 
8202CA Two SA800 in cabinet w/power, DDC" Controller, cable and manual 
5101CA One SA850 in cabinet w/power, DDC* Controller, cable and manual 
5202CA Two SA850 in cabinet w/power, DDC* Controller, cable and manual 
"Double Density Controller 



S-100 BASED 
COMPUTERS 

MODEL NO DESCRIPTION 

41 01 C SA4DO in cabinet w/power 

821 2C Two SA801 in cabinet w/power 

521 2C Two SA851 in cabinet w/power 



GENERAL 



MODEL NO DESCRIPTION 

8212 Two SA801 in cabinet 

8212C Two SA801 in cabinet w/power 



5212 
5212C 



Two SA851 in cabinet 

Two SA851 in cabinet w/power 



TRS80 



MODEL NO DESCRIPTION 

4101C SA400 in cabinet w/power 

8101C II One SA800 in cabinet w/power lor Mod. 

8202C II Two SA800 in cabinet w/power lor Mod. 

C802 Cable lor Mod. II 

C805 Cable lor TRS80 Minifloppy 



MODEL NO. 


DESCRIPTION 


C808 


Cable lor TRS80 Eight inch Floppy 


LX80 


Double density expansion interface 


RS232 


Dual Serial Port Option 


16K 


16K Byte RAM for LX80 (32KB max.) 


VTOS 


4.0 Disk Operating System 



CO., 

P.O. Box 185, Santa Yhez,Ca., 93460 
(805) 688-8781 



352 BYTE February 1981 



Circle 259 on inquiry card. 



1858 Evergreen Street, Duarte, California 91010 



Phone 213-357-5005 



page 

DIGITAL ELECTRONICS II 



PRB1 LOGIC PROBE PLS1 LOGIC PULSER 




PRB1 LOGIC PROBE 



$36.95 



» Compatible with all logic families 

• Visual indication of low, high and bad logic levels 

• Pulse stretching to 50 Msec 



* PLS1 LOGIC PULSER 



INSERTION /EXTRACTION TOOLS 




WW1 WIRE WRAPPING KIT 




ORDERING INFORMATION: 

• Orders under $25 include $2 handling 

• All prepaid orders shipped UPS Ppd. 

■ Visa, MC & COD's charged shipping. 

• All prices good through cover date. 

■ Most orders shipped same day. 

• Byte must be mentioned to get sale price. 



$48.95 



• Superimposes 20pps pulse train onto circuit 

• No need to cut circuit trace 

• Automatic pulse polarity 



WK7 INSERTION/ EXTRACTION KIT $29.95 

• MOS safe 

• Includes EX1 & EX2 Extraction tools 

• MOS 1416, MOS 2428, MOS 40 Extraction tools 

• MDD1 1 channel dispenser $ 21.85 

• MDD5 5 channel dispenser 83.43 

• MDD10 10 channel dispenser 160.45 

• Dispenses 8-42 pin IC's 

8 Compatible with all IC carrying tubes 

• Use with WK7 for MOS-safe IC insertion 



WW1 WIRE WRAPPING KIT 

• BW2630 Power wrapping tool $19.85 

• BT30 #30 Bit 3.95 

• BC1 Batteries and charger 14.95 

• KIT#3 Precut wire kit 32.95 

• 10 ea. 14 pin, 16 pin gold wrap sockets 11.00 

• EZO7302 4.25" x 8.5" Glass epoxy board 3.95 

• 14ID,16ID20ICwrapindentifiers 3.96 

TOTAL $90.01 
SALE PRICE $69.95 



Write or call for 1980 catalog 

• IC Sockets 

» Vector Board & Pins 

• Bishop Drafting Aids 
« OK Tools 

• RN IDC Crimp Connectors 



Circle 260 on inquiry card. 



TOLL FREE ORDERING NUMBER 1-(800)-423-7144 



S-100 VOICE 

The ARTICULATOR board allows 
you to record, store, and 
playback any vocabulary on your 
S-100 computer. Input speech is 
digitized by the ARTICULATOR 
and sent to the computer via an 
on -board port for storage at 1K 
to 2K bytes/sec. This data is then 
sent back from the computer to 
the ARTICULATOR for very high 
quality playback. On-board VOX 
switching minimizes memory 
storage requirements. 

PRICE — $319 A&T 
AVAILABLE NOW 

Quintrex, Inc., 9185 Bond 
Shawnee Mission, Ks. 66215 
(913) 888-3353 



for TRS-80 ' 

CUSTOM SOUND 



";'™"',° r ," u.rt.d™!.b™M°S.*Uw»rt 






The device is cupnblo of producing three 




s i mu 1 t.-incoiis tone music of any note structure (ii 




just ocUvcs) ;is well sis complex sound effects 




[sirens, etc), All this :n :i frriction 01" the c 


St 


nf corn,).,r..l>]c units, with the doulilc cable, t> 




units can be "Rrmjieil" togctlitr in produce sis 




SOUND GENERATOR KIT: [needs only 




cablu,5VSC 5 speaker) 


- S49 


two fur 


$80 


CABLE: ribLon cable with PC edge connectors, 








or EX/lltT. 


y/u 


double connector - 


S25 


SVDC REGULATlili POKEK SUI'i'LV: 




fully nssnbLcd, 1.2 nop, ovr. 


• S23 


kit cones complete wit!, s,P|,lu software S 




COMING SOON.' SPEECH SYNTHESISER 





IXQUIHES WELCOMU 

'ustom ••""•" * 
Jeripherals f*.*tS? 

Don 8759 Warwick, llhodr Mand 028S8 



SUBMINI DPDT 
DIP RELAY 

AROMAT KHB2-DCBV 



SI SO each 10lorSl350 



40 PIN RT ANGLE P.C.B. 

mm HEADER 

^ RIGHT ANGLE 

$1 .50 EACH MOUNT 

40 PIN RIBBON CABLE 
SOCKET CONNECTOR 
fr=--£55A 3M"34I7 

few*- s . c f- AC H 



22/44 EDGE CONNECTOR 

TIN SOLDERTAIL ,156"x .200" 

v ssssssss&t 

LARGE QUANTITIES AVAILABLE 
11.35 each 10 lor $12.50 



7-17wdc 
S.S. BUZZER 




Si 25 each 



FLAT LEVER 
HANDLE 
'MINI TOGGLE 

S PDT 
RATED 

6 AMPS (63 125 V 
14 - 40 BUSHING 

$1.00 each 

10 lor sa 50 



Litronix FRL-4403 

FLASHER 
LED 




dilluseuiedled 

buill in flashing ui 



ALL 6L6CTRO0ICS CORP. 

905 S. Vermont Ave. terms 

Los Angeles, Calif. 90006 
(213)380-8000 
Mon. - Fri. Saturday 
9 AM -5 PM 10 AM- 3 PM 

SEND FOR 



Quantities Limited 
Min. Order SI 0,00 
Add 12.00 
Shipping USA 
Calil.Res Add6% 
Prompt Shipping 

FREE CATALOG 



Circle 261 on inquiry card. 



Circle 262 on inquiry card. 



Circle 263 on inquiry card. 




NEW! 



interface Converts 

Your Typewriter 

into printer 




- Finest print quality • Low cost 

■ Easy Installation ■ Quick delivery 

• Fits IBM SELECTR ic 8 typewriter with no modification. 

• For trs-80 8 , Apple®, or any parallel or RS232 port. 

• write or phone for more information, today! 

■ U.S. and worldwide sales— 



INTERNATIONAL INC. 

16140 valerio St. 

van Nuys.CA 91406 USA 



TEL: 213/781-0020 TLX/TWX: 910-495-1767 



iPEX 



WANTED: 



APPLE, PET, TRS-80, CP/M 

SOFTWARE 

Westico is a publisher and distributor of 
professional software for microcomputers. 
If you have a new program ready for 
distribution or want yourexisting programs 
to reach a larger market, contact: 

Phillip Woellhof. V.P. Mktg. 

Westico. Inc. 

25 Van Zant Street 

Norwalk. CT 06855 

(203) 853-6880 
To increase your profits, take advantage 
of Westico's worldwide promotion and 
distribution 

WESTICO 

The Software Express Service 



B Dysan 

^CORPORATION 



Solve your disc problems, buy 100% surface 
tested Dysan M*\*an m All orders shipped 
from stock, within 24 hours. Call toll FREE 
(BOO) 2354137 for prices and information. 
Visa and Master Card accepted All orders 
sent postage paid. 




PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd. 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401. (In Catcall 
(805) 543-1037.) 



Circle 264 on inquiry card. 



Circle 265 on inquiry card. 



COMPUTER 

SORPLUS 

************** 



POWER SUPPLIES: 110(g>220 vac. mulli 

volt and multi amp ($20-$45). 

VIDEO TERMINALS with KEYBOARDS 

($50- $150). 

MUFFIN FANS $5. 

FILTER CAPACITORS (large canistors) 

$1 ea. 

ALSO LARGE COMPUTER CABINETS 

$30-$100. 

40 wire ribbon cable 50c per foot 

20 wire ribbon cable 25c per foot 

RELAYS, CONNECTORS, FUSE 
HOLDERS, BREAKERS, HEAT SINKS, 
SWITCHES,. .etc. also for sale. 

CALL K1RT WYCKOFF at 
(216) 473-0866 

DATA HARDWARE 

701 #4 BETA DR. 
CLEVELAND OHIO 44143 

DEALERS WELCOME 



!! REAL TIME 



! ! 



The TIME MACHINE from ALPHA OMEGA COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS isn't just another digilal clock chip surrounded 
by interface circuitry. It's an intelligent microcompuler 

The TIME MACHINE communk itM with your computer 
300 and 2400 baud. RS-232, RS-422, or current loop 



Battery protection against power loss is included. The 
TIME MACHINE automatically computes day ol the week 
and leap year. Buttered output pulses at one second, one 



; are 2.5 <l.?5> 7.5 i 



Price is only $450 single lot and quantity discounts a 
available. Dealer inquiries invited. Oil the shell deli 

ALPHA 

OMCCACOMPUTCR SUSTCMS, INC. 



<ox 



Save up to 50% 

using our buying power. We buy 
over three million dollars of 
computer equipment wholesale per 
year for clients who range in size 
from the largest manufacturers to 
the home hobbyist. Our fee is one 
fourth of what we save you of f the 
manufacturer's suggested list price, 
so it is to our advantage to save 
you money. 

THE PURCHASING AGENT 
163S School Street, Suite 101 
Moragn, CA 94556 
(415) 376^)020 




Circle 266 on inquiry card. 



Circle 267 on inquiry card. 



Circle 268 on inquiry card. 



WE WILL NOT BE UNDERSOLD 



DISK DRIVES 



$314 




40 track, 102K Bytes. Includes power sup- 
ply and TRS-80* compatible silver 
enclosure. Ready to plug-in and run the 
moment you receive it. Can be intermixed 
with each other and Radio Shack drive on 
same cable. 90 day warranty. One year on 
power supply. Available for 220 Vac (50 Hz) 
operation. External card edge included. 



FOR TRS-80* 

CCI-100 

CCI-280 

For Zenith Z89 

CCI-189 

Z-87 

DISKETTES — Box of 10 with plastic library case 
5 1 /< " Scotch $35 Maxell $40 

8" Scotch $50 Maxell $55 

CLEAR PLASTIC CASE-Holds 50 diskettes 

|gl4V«[i!iIrf*ItM:l»k 

MAINFRAME, Z-80 CPU, CONTROLLER, 
RAM, and 2P + 2S CARDS 

8" SHUGART SA801R DISK DRIVES 
DISK OPERATING SYSTEMS 



5 1 /4",40Track(102K Bytes) for Model I $314 

5 1 /« ", 80 Track (204K Bytes) for Model I $429 

5 Va ", 40 Track (102K By tes) add-on drive $394 

Dual 5Vt "add-on drive system $995 



BASF/Verbatim $24 

BASF/Verbatim $36 

$19 



$CALL 

$425 



PATCHPAK#4byPercom Data 




$ 8.95 


CP/M® for Model I, Zenith $145 • 


for Model II, Altos 


$169.00 


NEWDOSPIus 


40track 


$ 79.00 


NEWDOS 80 




$135.00 


COMPLETE SYSTEMS 






ALTOS ACS8000 Computers 




$ CALL 


APPLE 16K 




$939 


APPLE III 96K 




$2999 


TRS-80* Model II-64K 




$3499 


TRS-80* Model III-16K 




$899 


TRS-80* Expansion interface 




$249 


ZENITH Z89, 48K all-in-one computer 




$2395 


ZENITH Z19 




$735 


TELEVIDEO 920C 




$748 


ATARI 400 $479 


ATARI 800 $769 


APF Game Only $95 


Complete System $489 


MATTEL INTELLIVISION 




$229 


MONITORS 






LEEDEX 12"B&W Video 100 




$129 


ZENITH 13" Color 




$379 


SANYO 9"B&WVM4509 




$145 


SANYO 12" B&W DM5012 




$210 


SANYO 12"GreenScreen DM5112 




$215 


SANYO 13" Color DMC6013 




$375 


APF 9"B&WTVM-10 




$120 


TELECOMMUNICATIONS 






LIVERMORE STAR MODEM 2-year guarantee 


$145 


UNIVERSAL DATA SYSTEMS UDS-103 




$179 


D-CAT HARD WIRED DIRECT MODEM 




$189 


AUTO-CAT Auto Answer, DirectConnec 


t Modem 


$229 



PRINTERS 




16K MEMORY UPGRADE KITS 2 tor $65 $35 

200 ns for TRS-80*, Apple II, (specify): Jumpers $2.50 

NEC Spinwriter 

Letter Quality High Speed Printer 

Includes TRS-80* interface software, quick 
change print fonts, 55 cps, bidirectional, 
high resolution plotting, graphing, propor- 
tional spacing: R.O. $2395 
R.O. with Tractor Feed $2595 KSR with Tractor Feed $2795 

C.ITOH Starwriter, 25 CPS, daisy wheel printer $1795 

C.ITOH Starwriter II, 45 CPS, daisy wheel printer $1995 

Letter quality printers. Use up to 15" paper. 1 year warranty on 
parts. 3 months on labor. Proportional spacing and bidirectional 
printing. Same as VISTA V300. 

EPSON MX-80 $595 

PAPER TIGER IDS 445 Graphics and 2K buffer $699 

IDS 460 Bidirectional, 160 cps, graphics and 2K buffer $1050 

IDS 560 132 Columns, graphics $1599 

ANADEX DP-9500/01 $1345 DP-8000 $849 



COMMUNICATIONS SOFTWARE 

CCI-TELNET VERSION 5: A communication package which enables 

microcomputer users to communicate both with large mainframes 

and other microcomputers. Completely CP/M compatible. Multiple 

communication protocols supported. $149 

For fast delivery, send certified checks, money orders or call to arrange direct bank wire transfers. Personal or company checks require two 

to three weeks to clear. All prices are mail order only. 



dealer (national/international) inquiries invited Send for FREE Catalogue 



OKIDATA Microline 80 Friction and pin feed 

Tractor Feed, friction, and pin feed 

Microline 82 Bidirectional, friction and pin feed 

Microline 83 Bidirectional, 120 cps, uses up to 15" paper 
779 CENTRONICS TRACTOR FEED PRINTER 

Same as Radio Shack line printer I 
737 CENTRONICS FRICTION & PIN FEED PRINTER 

n x 9 proportional and 7x8 mono spacing. 

Same as Radio Shack line printer IV 
730 CENTRONICS FRICTION & PIN FEED PRINTER 

7x7 matrix Same as Radio Shack line printer II 
P1 CENTRONICS PRINTER 

Same as Radio Shack quick printer 
EATON LRC 7000 + 64 columns, plain paper 
TI-810 Faster than Radio Shack line printer III. Parallel and serial 

w/TRS-80* interface software w/u&l case & paper tray 

Compressed print, vertical form control 

ACCESSORIES 

SCOTCH HEAD CLEANING DISKETTE: Cleans drive 
Read/Write head in 30 seconds; specify 5Vi "or 8". $ 

FLOPPY SAVER: Protection for center holes of 5 Va" floppy 
disks. Installation tools and rings for 25 diskettes. $ 

Re-orders of rings only $ 
EXTERNAL DATA SEPARATOR: Eliminates data separation 
problems (crc). Improves reliability. This plug in unit comes 
fully assembled and tested. $ 

Z-80 SOFTCARD: Your key to software expansion. The plug- 
in Z-80 Softcard transforms your Apple into a Z-80 while 
keeping all the benefits of the 6502. Comes with CP/M in 
two disk format, MBASIC and GBASIC, full documentation 
and utility programs. 

VIDEX BOARD 80 Column, U/L case conversion card 
CRT FILM: Helps eliminate external glare, 9" 
RF MODULATOR: Adapts video to TV 
TRS-80 & OTHER MYSTERIES 

NEC SPINWRITER THIMBLE $11.95 RIBBON 

CCS CARDS: Parallel or serial printer interface cards 
RS232: For Radio Shack Interface. 

DISK-DRIVE EXTENDER CABLES: Fits all mini-disk drives. 
SIX (6) PRONG ISOLATOR: ISO-2 
AC FILTER/6 PRONG POWER STRIP 
DISK DRIVE CABLES: 2 drive $29.00 4 drive 

DUST COVERS: TRS-80/Apple 
PLASTIC DISKETTE HOLDER: For ring binder, holds 20 



$525 
$625 
$719 
$995 
$969 

$780 



$595 

$269 

$269 

$1589 
$1865 



25.00 

11.95 
6.95 



29.95 



$339.00 

$299.00 

$ 29.00 

$ 29.00 

$ 18.95 

$ 6.00 

$115.00 

$ 84.00 

16.95 

54.00 

39.00 

35.00 

7.95 

8.00 



The CPU SHOP 



TO ORDER CALL TOLL FREE 1-800-343-6522 

TWX: 710-348-1796 Massachusetts Residents call 617/242-3361 



5 Dexter Row, Dept. B02M 
Charlestown, Massachusetts 02129 
Hours 10AM-6PM (EST) Mon.-Fri. (Sat. till 5) 



Technical Information call 617/242-3361 
Massachusetts Residents add 5% Sales Tax 
Tandy Corporation TrademarkTDigital Research 



master charge 




Circle 270 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 355 




MODEL 1200 RS-232 BI-DIRECTIONAL 
DATA SPLITTER 

available In kit form 

Model 1200K gives the terminal or micro- 
processor user a second interface for a printer, 
plotter, cassette or tape drive. It operates at any 
speed & isolates the two output devices from 
each other, while providing 2 RS-232 interfaces 
from the terminal or microprocessor. 

The kit consists of 3 RS-232 connectors, 
printed circuit board, all necessary components, 
enclosure, mounting hardware & assembly in- 
structions $69.00 

write or call 

TERMINAL DATA CDRP. 

11878 Coakley Cir. 

Rockville, MD 20852 

(3011 881 7655 



Eleusis and The TI-59 

Your TI-59 can now act as 
God (well, dealer) in the 
New Eleusis (the card game 
introduced in the October 
1977 Scientific American). 
The Eleusis-Dealer program 
randomly chooses a rule then 
accepts or rejects the cards 
played. 

To obtain magnetic cards for 
the program, along with 
documentation, Eleusis in- 
structions, and the latest 
newsletter, send $6 to 

Robert Abbott 

Box 1175, General P.O. 
New York, NY 10116 



MAGIC WAND 
$325 

This powerful word processor is in stock for 
most CP/M compatible systems, including 
Radio Shack, North Star, Vector Graphics, 
Cromemco and APPLE [with Z-80 card @ 
$295 and Videx BO column board @ 8898]. 
We will custom configure your diskette if you 
will specify: CPU. terminal, printer. 

Our fully interactive 

MAIL MAGIC™ 

mail management software, with 14 user de- 
fined fields and full merge and sort capability is 
available for $149. 

We will also quote on all specific hardware and 
software for APPLE, PET and Vector Graphics. 

Computer City ^T 

P.O. Box 60284 B ^™ 

Houston TX 77205 
(713) 821-2702 

Magic Wand is a registered trademark of 

Small Business Applications 

Mail Magic is a registered, trademark of 

Computer City 



Circle 271 on inquiry card. 



Circle 272 on inquiry card. 



Fine Software Tools in C 



The Toolbox 

list prints that missing source listing 

xref cross reference C programs 

sort alphabetize by all or part of text line. 

col arrange text in columns on page 

print paginates text for hard copy 
and more 

All programs are in portable Whitesmith C xref 
and list are compatible with the compiler's error 
listing. Title lines on list and print output includes 
the date on RT-11 systems Source code on B" 
floppy and manual available immediately for $45 
(tax and shipping included) Specify RT-11 or CP/M 
format 

The Toolsmith 

Dept. BYTE 

P. O. Box 22511 

San Francisco, CA 94122 

RT-11 is a trademark of Digital Equipment Corp 
CP/M is a trademark oi Digital Research 



USR-330D Modem 



Auto-Dial/ Auto Answer S399 

Connect your TRS-80, Apple, or any other 
computer to the phone lines. 

• 0-300 Baud-Bell 103/113 compatible 

• Serial-RS232 

• Half/Full Duplex 

• 1 year warranty 

FCC Certified 
Direct connection to 
phone lines via RJ11C 
standard extension 

phone jack 

USR-330A Modem 

Same as 330D 

but Manual-Originate/ Auto- Answer. 

Radio Shack Model II Users - 

We have software to connect you directly 
to the phone lines. 



U.S. ROBOTICS 

203 N.WABASH 
SUITE I7IS 
CHICAGO, ILL BOBOI 




S339 



We're the 
MAGNOLIA people 
you've been 
looking for. . . 

Add the CP/M® disk operating 
system to your Zenith/Heath 'B9 
All-in-One Computer'. Easily in- 
stalled hardware and software 
proven by reliable service for more 
than a year. Supports B-inch, 
double-sided 5-inch, and hard disk 
drives. 
Only $195. 
Askyourlocal dealer; or 

MAGNOLIAH 

MICROSYSTEMS 

2B12 THORNDYKE AVE. WEST 
SEATTLE. WASHINGTON 9B199 

(20612B5-7266 

CP/M* is a registered trademark of Digital Research. Inc. 



Circle 273 on inquiry card. 



Circle 274 on inquiry card. 



Circle 275 on inquiry card. 



CP/M®+*IBM 

CP/M+*DEC 

Compatibility with 



reformaTTer 

Exchange data files with most IBM and 
DEC equipment through REFORMATTER disk 
utilities. With REFORMATTER, you can read 
and write IBM 3740 and DEC RT-11 formatted 
diskettes on your CP/M system. Programs fea- 
ture hi-directional data transfer and full direc- 
tory manipulation. ASCII/EBCDIC conversion 
provided with CP/M-wIBM. 

Each program $195.00 from stock. Specify 
CP/M**IBM or CP/M--DEC when ordering. 

Program Data Sheets and Application 
Guide available from MicroTech Exports. Inc., 
■lb' Hamilton Ave., Suite 2, Palo Alto. CA 
94301 □ Tel: 415/324-9114 □ TWX: 910- 
370-745" MUM-ALTOS □ Dealer & OEM 
discounts available. ^£ 30 

C.P/M K is a registered trademark of Digital Research 




PRINTERS 

NEW BASE, MODEL 850 
mi S799OWR PRICE $735 



BASE, MODEL 800B 
mrsmOUR PRICE $585 

HEW BASE,/ APPLE GRAPHICS 

INTERFACE 

list uto OUR PRICE $140 

OKIDATA 11 LINE 80 
mrsiooOUR PRICE $550 

■I'liiSl ADD 3 % FOR SSH TO OBOf 8" 
Sf ND FOR INfOftrHAJION ON OUR OTKf R PRODUCT 1INFS 



I 



TECHNICAL INNOVATIONS 

P.O. BOX 803 DEPT 82 

HILLSB0R0, OR97J23 

503-648-6423 



I 



Circle 276 on inquiry card. 



Circle 277 on inquiry card. 



6502, Z80, 8080 AND 8085 USERS 




JOHN BELL 

ENGINEERING'S 

6502 AND Z80 

MICROCOMPUTERS 

ARE DEDICATED COM- 
PUTERS DESIGNED FOR 
CONTROL FUNCTIONS. 

THESE BOARDS FEATURE: 

• 2048 BYTES EPROM 

• 1024 BYTES RAM 

• ALL BOARDS INCLUDE 
COMPLETE DOCUMENTA- 
TION 

•50 PIN CONNECTOR IN- 
CLUDED IN KITS AND 
ASSEMBLED UNITS 

• 2716 AVAILABLE 
SEPARATELY 




JOHN BELL ENGINEERING'S 6502 
MICROCOMPUTER, 2716 EPROM PROGRAM- 
MER AND APPLE II PARALLEL INTERFACE 
PLUS THE APPLE II MICROCOMPUTER - A 
COMPLETE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM. 

6502 MICROCOMPUTER FEATURES: 

• 1024 BYTES RAM 

• 2048 BYTES EPROM 

• USES ONE 6522 VIA (DOC. INCL.) 

• 2 8 BIT BIDIRECTIONAL I/O PORTS 

• 2 16 BIT PROGRAMMABLE TIMER/ 
COUNTERS 

• SERIAL DATA PORT 

• LATCHED I/O WITH HANDSHAKING LOGIC 

• TTL AND CMOS COMPATIBLE 




80-153 
BARE BOARD 



ASSEMBLED $110.95 
$24.95 KIT $ 89.95 



JOHN BELL ENGINEERING'S NEW Z80 
MICROCOMPUTER FEATURES: 

• Z80 CPU SOFTWARE COMPATIBLE WITH 
Z80, 8080 AND 8085 MICROPROCESSORS 

• 2048 BYTES EPROM 

• 1024 BYTES RAM 

• SINGLE 5V POWER SUPPLY AT 300MA 
•CLOCK FREQUENCY IS 2MHZ, RC CON- 
TROLLED 

• Z80 PIO (DOC. INCL.) 

• 2 8 BIT BIDIRECTIONAL I/O PORTS 

• LATCHED I/O WITH HANDSHAKING LOGIC 

• TTL AND CMOS COMPATIBLE 



80-280 
BARE BOARD 



ASSEMBLED $129.95 
$29.95 KIT $119.95 






USE YOUR 6502 OR Z80 MICROCOMPUTER TO CONTROL EVERYTHING! 

• YOUR HOME SECURITY SYSTEM • AUTOMATIC CONTROL OF VIDEO 

• HEAT CONTROL RECORDERS 

• LIGHT CONTROL • ROBOT CONTROL 

• SOLAR HEATING AND POWER SYSTEMS • AUTOMATIC DIALER 

• AUTOMATIC CONTROL OF TAPE • AUTOMATED SLIDE SHOW CONTROL 
RECORDERS • COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS FOR THE 

• TRAFFIC LIGHT CONTROL DISABLED 

• IRRIGATION SYSTEMS • THE WORLD 



Johiv Bell Eivgiiveeriivg 



VISA 



ALL PRODUCTS ARE AVAILABLE FROM: JOHN BELL ENGINEERING 

P.O. BOX 338 • REDWOOD CITY, CA 94064 • (415)367-1137 
■SEND FOR OUR COMPLETE CATALOG! ADD 6% SALES TAX IN CALIFORNIA. ADD 5% FOR SHIPPING AND HANDLING. 



MASTER 
CHARGE 



BYTE February 1981 357 



CROSS-ASSEMBLERS 

WRITTEN IN ANSI FORTRAN IV 

PACKAGE NO. MACH1NEIS) 

XASM8800 MC8800,02,08 

XA8M8805 MC8806.MC1 48805 

XA8M8809 MC8809 

XASM808S 8080.8085 

XASM1802 CDP1802 

XA8M8602 8500FAMILV 

' "Corning soon: 60000,8086, 99D0,ZB00 
6800 to 6809 Translator available now. 

null instruction set, all addressing modes. Free formal input, 
relocatable listing end object module, many user selectable 
assembly options. 8 character labels, arithmetic expressions in 
operands, long error messages, high execution speed. 

Full-capability assemblers run on almost any system suppor- 
ting ANSI standard FORTRAN IV, 1966 or later, at a fraction ol 
the cost of a separate development system. 

FORTRAN SOURCE MEDIA PRICE 

MAGNETIC TAPE PACKAGE SI 00,00 

PUNCHED CARD PACKAGE S 75.00 

MANUAL/LISTING ALONE S 30.00 

Packages include manual/listing, shipping in U.S.A. For cards, 
specify punch code. For tape, specify cotle. BPI, block size. 

■ B^ ■■ am Intelligent Devices of Mn 

I 1 1% /I P-0. Boi 14530 
I II llfl Minneapolis, MN 55414 

■ m^mW I W I (612)4270787 



ATARI. OWNERS 



SCREEN PRINT INTERFACE 

Obtain hardcopy of any screen image (graphics and / Of 
text) on eittier a TRENDCOM 200 or IDS 440 Paper 
Tiger printer. Simply attach tho supplied parallel printer 
cable and load the soflwore from cassette (may be 
transferred to Disk). Obtain a "picture" of the screen 
on your printer under direct (CTRL?) or program (X10) 
control. Works in all graphics / text modes as well as 
LPRINT and LIST M P:" , - 0/N 
Only $139 

Parallel Printer Interface for the 

ATARI 400 / 800 

Connects to controller jocks 3&4 works with BASIC /DOS/ 

ASSEMBLER Three printer connectors, available: 

ATARI 400/ 800 
TRENDCOM 100 / 200 A4P-1 ABP-1 
CENTRONICS 730 / 737 A4P-2 ABP-2 
CENTRONICS 36 PIN* A4P-3 A8P-3 

CA soles add 6% tax 
MC / VISA accepted. 

' Fits all other parallel Centronics plus Anadex. Bose 2. 
Epson, Comprint and Microtek Order by part number. 
ATARI is a recognized iiademork of ATARI. Inc. 

AMCROTPONICS, inc. ® 

1125 N. Golden State Blvd / Suite G 

Turlock. CA 95380 (A) (209I 667-2888 / 634-8888 



69, 



95 



BELOW DEALERS COST! 

NorthStar 



32KDD -2295.00 
32 K QUAD- 2600.00 



North Slat P 

s 16 00 




COD CASH IN ADVANCE VISA/ MASTER CHARGE' 

'ADD 4 PERCENT ON CHARGE ORDERS 



CUSTOM BUSINESS COMPUTERS 

103 ATLANTIC AVENUE. LYNBROOK. NEW YORK l I563.(516l8fl7 33*0 



Circle 280 on inquiry card. 



Circle 281 on inquiry card. 



Circle 282 on inquiry card. 



Tired of BASIC? 
Try S/S PASCAL! 

for CP/M* users 

• Powerful subset of Standard PASCAL. 

■ Integers, Reals, Strings,Text Files,etc 

.INTERRACTIVE COMPILER !! 

■ Correct your errors during com p ilation ! 

■ Your source on disc is compiled in fast 
efficient Pcode directly stored on disc. 

■ Complete and detailed nenual. 

■ Tip knowledge of PASCAL required. 



SCOTIA 
SOFTWARE 



$65 on cassette 

or 5.25" disc 

S10 nenual only 



1964, Beech St., Halifax N.s. 
F33H 4BB , CANAfW 



Requirement :24K with CP/M* 

CP/M is a Tr^lcmark of Digital Research 



6809 

FOR YOUR 
WINTEK BUS 

C PU card w ith serial 

port6k ROM-1k RAM' 

3 chan t im er-DM A- 

Monitors S ys Bus 

B uff ers-M apped 

Mem to ,5Mbyte- 

4.5x6.5" cards 

PETRONICS 

BOX 2475 

W LAFAYETTE IN 

47906 



Z-80 FORTH $50.00 

FORTH is fast, easy to use, extensible, and totally flexi- 
ble. Excellent (or rapid development of real-time data 
acquisition or process control applications. 

Laboratory Microsystems Z-80 FORTH is an optimized 
implementation of standard fig-FORTH • to run on Z-80 
microcomputers under the CP/M 2.x-- operating sys- 
tem, Unlike the FORTHs of many other vendors, our in- 
terpreter uses CP/M compatible random access disk 
files for screen storage. 



Z-80 FORTH is distributed on an eight-inch, 
sectored, single density diskette containing: 

executable interpreter 

fig-FORTH portable line editor 

screen editor 

demonstration programs 

utilities 

complete documentation 

Price: J50.00 includes tax and shipping. 

Laboratory Microsystems 

4147 Beethoven Street 
Los Angeles, CA 90066 



oft- 



Circle 283 on inquiry card. 



Circle 284 on inquiry card. 



Circle 285 on inquiry card. 



Floppy Discs 
$26.00-10 

We carry a full line of 
computer supplies. Send 
for free catalog. 

PO Box 5059 
Milford.Ct. 06460 



IY1CS 



(203)877-3610 Call 
collect 

Visa ■ Master Charge 
COD Check- 











LOW COST- HARD COPY 

KSR 33 
TELETYPEWRITERS 






20ma current loop, 
110 Baud 

$ 275. each 

Send check or money order to: 

JHC INFORMATION PRODUCTS 

P.O. BOX 2014 
ESCONDIDO, C A 92025 
U.S.A. ORDERS ONLY 
CALIF. ADD 6% SALES TAX 
ADD $10 SHIPPING CHARGES 






allow 4 wks. for check to clear, 
reconditioned • quantity limited 





Free 




Microprocessor Catalog 

40 page catalog of 6800 single board computers, 
interface modules, SPRINT 68 control computer/ 
development system, WIZRD multitasking DOS, 
'"—,. BASIC, cross assemblers, cross 
...... ...... jrs. custom engineering, OEM applications 

software. 

IWintekCorp. 
1801 South Sir 
Lafayette. IN 47904 
317-742-8428 






Circle 286 on inquiry card. 



Circle 287 on inquiry card. 



Circle 288 on inquiry card. 



AVA 



The Supermarket for TRS-80 
Add-on Components 

In stock now. Immediate delivery. 



81 Vista Compi 
Catalog 
Write for Yours 
Today, 
1401 BochardSt. 
(and other computers, too) ^B 

9270E 



' 



The Vista V-80/800/8000 
Family Disk Drive System 



Fully compatible with 
TRS-80, Heath/Zenith 
i 120 Day Warranty 
40 Track Patch at 
NO CHARGE 




V-80 Single drive system (102K) S 395.00 

V-80 Two drive system (204K) $ 770.00 

V-800 Single drive, B52 Drive (204K) S 595.00 

V-800-2 Double drive, B52 Drives (408K) . . S1 175.00 

V-8000 Single drive, B92 Drive (408K) .... S 775.00 

V-8000-2 Double drive B92 Drives (816K) . S1450.00 



The VISTA Model II 

• Provides one, two or 
three drives 

• Adds up to 1.5 million 
bytes of on-line storage 

• 120 day warranty 

• Does everthing Radio 
Shack's expansion 
system will do. ..for less! 



nj 




$ 900.00 Single drive (non-expandable) 
S1000.00 Single drive 

Expansion System 
S1550.00 Two drive Expansion System 
S2100.00 Three drive Expansion System 
S 525.00 Additional drives alone 




Vista's Add on Drives for Apple" 

Speed . Capacity . Price 
More for Less 



• 30 to 60% cheaper per byte 

• From 20 to 400% more capacity 

• Twice as fast 

• Compatible with Pascal 

• Warranty 120 days 

40-Track 
80-Track 
160-Track 
Controller 



$365.00 
$595.00 
$825.00 
$150.00 



The Vista 
MUSIC 
MACHINE 9 



WITH 9 VOICES! 



! : 




NEW! Uses latest State of the Art LSI Technology. 
» Requires only one slot for 9 voices! 

Uses three Ay3-8910's to produce nine voices 

(Othercompetitive models have only 3 voices). 
i Simulates three ALF Boards. 
» Plays music generated by the ALF Board. 
• APPLE'" II compatible. 

ALF"* software required. 



$129.95 



Vista V300 

Daisy wheel 
Letter quality 

Base 2 Printer 

Variable line spacing control 
to 64 dots in half dot increments 
100 cps — six densities 
Standard 96 character ASCII 
Up to 10 character fonts 

Vista Printer 

5 x 7 dot matrix 
80 column (125 cps) 



Printers 

$1895.00 



$575.00 (includes: 2-K Buffer, 
graphics high speed tractor feed) 



Siemens 



Shugart 



Add On Drives 

40 Track, Double 

Density-204K 

Dual Head, Double 

Density-408K 

FDD 100-5 40 Track Double 

Density 204K 

FDD 100-8 8" Single 

Sided Drive 

801 R Single Sided Drive 



$375.00 



$448.00 
$448.00 



Other Products 

VISTA Verbatim diskettes (hard or soft sector) Certified 

40 track 

16K RAM upgrade kits, guaranteed for 120 days. 

PRIME PRODUCT 

NEW DOS + 

LNW expansion bare board 

H.C. Pennington book, TRS-80 Disk and Other 

Mysteries 

DDT Disco-Tech disk drive timer 



S 38.95 

S 59.95 

$110.00 

$66.95 

$ 18.95 

$ 19.95 



The VISTA V-200 for Exidy 

Completely packaged system, tested and ready to plug in, includes: 
power supply, two 40 track drives, case, controller, all cabling and 
total CP/M™ documentation. 
Storage capacity from 400K to 1 .2 meg. 

System software-VISTA CP/M Disk Operating System and BASIC-E 
Compiler recorded on 5-1/4" diskettes. 
Price: Starting as low as $1199.00 

CALL TOLL-FREE 800-854-8017 

(For Orders Only) 
All request for catalogs must be by mail 



Price: Starting as 

232 



The Vista Computer Company 1401 Borchard Street • Santa Ana, California 92705 




"TRS-80 is a registered trademark of Radio Shack 
■CPM is a registered trademark of Digital Research 



Circle 289 on inquiry card. 



BYTE Febniary 1981 



359 



Q.T. Components From SLUDER 



Assembled & Tested 
QT S6C-2/4 MHz 
QTZ80-A REV I 2/4MHI 
Ram 16 16K sialic 2/4 MH* 
Expandable + Dynamic 64K 
Ram 65 16K static Bank Sel 
Silence + Mother Boards 



12 slot 

1 B slot 

Mainframe + with p/s 

Mainframe + withdual 5% cab 

Mainframe + with dual 8 cab 

For Mainframe + and mother boards 

add mother board price from above QT 

In/Out board Serial & Par 

Clock Calendar with 2 mo. battery 8.-U 

f or S-1 00 or Apple Computer or Radio 

Shack TRS-80 

CCS Disk Controller with CPM 

Single 8" Disk Cab. w/ps 

Shugarl 8" SA801 R while supplies last 

MPI 654 Disk Drive 851 

Q.T. Computer Systems Computers 

SYS +SS 8" ss drives 

SYS +DS 8" ds drives 
QT Mini-system ss 5 'A drives 

Mini-system ds 5% drives 
4116 200ns rams 16K 8 pes 

Make cashiers checks, certified checks. ■ 
payable to SLUDER. PO Box 9 51. Wi 
Call 714-895-1 746 9 to 5 Pacific Time M 
minimums: $2.00, $5.00 on floppys & mai 
systems. Ca. res. add 6% sales tax. CPM ■: 
Digital Research. Prices subject to change. 



List 


Sa:e 


1>H() 


225. 


?1<] 


175. 


?1(] 


175. 


67S 


525. 


■//a 


230. 


50 


45. 


/() 


60. 


90 


75. 


140 


120. 


3B0 


2B5. 


40(1 


325. 


b /b 


475. 



1 50 
400 
1 75. 
499. 
295 

4250. 
4995 
2495. 
2795. 



1 25. 
325 
I 50. 
380. 
250. 

3750. 
4450. 
2120. 
2375. 



CA. 92683 
F Postage 
■nes. SI 5.00 c 
ademark of 



Circle 290 on inquiry card. 



APPLE DISKS 

MULTIPLE PROGRAMS PER DISK 

BASIC TUTOR P HY~.„ 

BAb ASTRONOMY S, CS 

SPANISH HANGMAN 

Comp °s/t,o n 

Quality Software & Courseware 
designed for School & Home 
Educational Users 

Discover the values of the com- 
puter as an instructional aid 

Send Now For Our Catalog 
TO: 

!= !*!!#* AT lOf tUl 

^^!!|i^^!|!d|||P 

3Noppa Lane, Westport, CT 06880 



SOFTWARE 
DESIGN ENGINEER 

BSEE/BSCS. minimum 3 years 
programming experience. Real- 
time systems programming and 
software development for elec- 
tronic switches is a plus. Ex- 
perience with PASCAL or C or 
Assembly language required. Call 
collect or send resume to Ken- 
neth W. Cooper, Harris Corpora- 
tion, RF Communications Divi- 
sion, 1680 University Avenue, 
Rochester, NY 14610, (716) 
244-5830, EXT 3356. 



HARRIS 



An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F 



-ywivi. 



Circle 291 on inquiry card. 



IS YOUR 

Worth Star 
OUT OF SORTS? 



INCREASE YOUR BASICS 
SORTING POWER OVER 1800%! 

N+SORT is easy to use and will perform 
sorts on one and two dimensional or 
string arrays using optional sort keys. 
For example, to alphabetize AS: 

10 A$ = "ZYXWVUTS"\ REM Define String 
20SRTA$,LEN(A$).1\ REM Sort A$ 

N+SORT interfaces to any release 4 or 
later North Star Basic and can be yours 
for only (ton 

vJ>Oy plus$1.50 shipping 
Calif. Res. add 6% tax. 
Send check VISA or WI C 
j+im- Complete Brochure Available 

\5Z) Software Systems 

1269 Rubio Vista Road, Altadena, Calif. 91001 
(213) 791-3202 















r~ QUARTZ CRYSTALS **$ 


1 ) .JZ1B-B 


5.2429 B 


993 361 


20O00-B 362886 8 


42J5IB-B 


46B12BB | 


I 52% 8 


5.GI0-B 


9 9840 8 B 


2D.49BSB 36.3636-B 


42B768B 


4737688 ' . 


, ' i.OOl) * 


5.71438 


998960 B 


22.11048 37962B-B 


42.9Z58B 


478B3BB ( 


1 1.843! A 


S.9S5-B 


lO.OOO B 


22.62SBB 3B.376BB 


42.962BB 


4B.000B . 


! | 1.8437 B 


5.9828 


I0.245BB 


2635S6B 38 4448 B 


43D006-B 


4B3006B ' 


< 20QOA 


GDOOB 


1 0.49GB -B 


26.50O6B 38625BB 


4303788 


48666B B ' . 


.' 20971 A 


6.144 8 


10.7755 B 


26.6706B 38S25BB 


43074BB 


4B.7006B < ' 


' > 2.457E-* 


G.I5D3D-B 


iiutss-a 


?70O0 B 39.3128-B 


43.1B5SB 


4BB76B 8 


\ 2.W0-A 


G.29780B 


IOI3U-B 


21DUK, B 39 5038-8 


432MB-B 


49 70068 '| 


, ' 2.66SJ-B 


6.400 B 


II 13608 


27 6506- B 396958-B 


43 3338-8 


4973388 1 


1 2.99M-B 


655 36B 


11.155 8 


ZB 4006,0 39.753AB 


43 3708 B 


498128 B , ' 


1 l 3 mo * 


6.72530B 


II2I86B 


28.6276 B 398768 B 


43407BB 


SO 250 5 B | 


| 3.067 B 


6.75B40B 


112890 B 


2B.7538B 395628 B 


43.4378 B 


5liJ556 B ' . 


. r 3JO0-B 


6.9003 -B 


11.4776 B 


29B75BB 40444B-B 


43.444BB 


5I3I2BB | 


1 | 32768 A 


7.D063B 


11 .6566- B 


299378B 40L9ZBB 


43655BB 


51 777B B . 1 


t 3.50D B 


7.0336 B 


11 6816 B 


300648B 40.B12B 8 


43 6298 B 


5IB506B ' | 


( ' 3.579 B 


70916 B 


12.440 B 


30.3606B 40B336B 


436668 B 


52B12BB 1 


1 4 000 B 


7.1836 B 


14.31B2B 


30625BB 40.B75BB 


43.7778 B 


56.7506 B , ' 


' . 4 1943 B 


7.25B6B 


14 430BB 


30B76BB 40.B88BB 


43.B12B-B 


60 6006 B 1 


| 4 34ZG-B 


B.000-B 


15.000 B 


3I.437BB 40.925B-B 


43.8148 B 


60.7508 8 ' | 


. r 4 4803-B 


B.D556 B 


I5 440BB 


3I.753BB 41.0008-8 


43.B5188 


667S06B i 


', 4EI03B 


BJ4IB-B 


15.5066 B 


319006-6 41.16668 


43BB88B 


704006 B . ' 


1 46503 B 


B.1B1BB 


15.000 B 


32.000 B 4I.3768B 


43925BB 


750005B | 


, ' 48303 8 


B.3303-B 


16.36488 


332Q06B 4193736 


44.0006-8 


908338 B ' . 


► 4.9IS2-B 


8.4938 B 


172246 8 


33 6A8B 42 BOOB 6 


44B37B-B 


99.96648 | 


I 1 SHOO B 


B 5766 B 


17 2422 8 


34 5558 8 42.5836 B 


44.376BB 


1006668 B A 


| 5D6G8 B 




18JW0-B 


34 7538 B 42.6268 B 


44.7778 8 


1014668 B ) 


. ' 5 I2D3 B 


B.960S B 


1B432DB 


349776B 42.70OG-B 


45.I756B 


103 0668 B 1 


') S IBSO B 


B9906 B 


1946B0B 


359256B 42 7538-8 


463006- B 


103 4668 B , ' 


1 5IBM-6 


94720B8 


19 7S0B B 


360008 42B148B 


46.7006-8 


104.9918 B r 


( ALL A - 


12.99 


AL 


B -11.99 


OOfl MORE DEDUCT 5". ' 1 






ADD $ 


.00 SHIPPING 






CAL. 


RES. ADD 6% SALES TAX 






FREE OSCILLATOR SCHEMATICS 






WITH ANY ORDER 






l! QUALITY COMPUTER 


PARTS J 


l ( P.O. 


BOX 743 / CHATSWORTH 


, CA 91311 S 

















Circle 292 on inquiry card. 




EVERY MONTH 



BUY, SELL OR TRADE ALL TYPES OF 
COMPUTER EQUIPMENT AND SOFT- 
WARE (pre-owned and new) among 
20,000 readers nationwide in BIG 
(11x14") pages. Classified ads are 
only 10* per word and are indexed for 
easy and fast location. Subscription: 
$10 a year/ 12 issues. Money back 
guarantee. Sample copy, $1.50. 
CdfTlPL'TaR SHQPPSR 
P.O. Box F-14 
Titusville, FL 32780 
(305) 269-321 1 
MasterCard or VISA subscription orders only, 
call TOLL FREE 1 800 528 6050 Ex. 184 . 



Circle 293 on inquiry card. 



Circle 294 on inquiry card. 



Circle 295 o n inquiry card. 



80X24 VIDEOTERM™ 

7X9 MATRIX DISPLAY FOR 

LOWER CASE WI DESCENDERS Hi Y L t II 

TflUS 




80 columns by 24 lines with easy to read 7x9 dot matrix, 
upper and lower case with descenders using shift lock 
feature • l K firmware incorporates PASCAL and BASIC 
protocalls so user is not required to enter machine 
language programs or change PASCALS. Misc. info, or 
Gotoxy files • Compatible with all APPLE II peripherals 
so user won't need new software patches for luture 
software products • Crystal controlled dot clock for 
excellentcharacterstability • VIDEOTERM is the same 
size as the Apple language card and power consump- 
tion is held to a minimum through the use of CMOS and 
lower power devices • Character set can be user de- 
finable up to a maximum of 128 symbols of 8x16 dot 
matrix font • Display control character mode and four 
standard display formats controlled by escape sequen- 
ces • Built in light pen capability ■ Inverse display 
mode • 50/60 HZ operation- Sockets on all IC's. 



r* 



ind VIDEOTERI 



(M $19 ^3 



rollts. OR 97J30 Phons 1503) 750-0521 



SpecialOffer! Limited Time! 

OWNERS 0fTRS-80 T levelii,i6k 

DERBYn 

Outstanding game of racing designed by 
scientist and statistician. Six mutual prob- 
ability algorithms precisely coded (not just 
RNO). Every race a cliffhanger. Bet to win 
place, or show; perfectos; trifectas! Photo 
finishes! Inquiries! Play different odds every 
race! Can be beaten with a lot of skill. 1 to 
5 players, plus a tout who bets every race 
using exactly the same handicapping infor- 
mation you have (he will even place bet 
for you-for a fee of course). Excellent spot 
graphics for realistic motion. 

CAN YOU BEATtheTOUT 

ORDER NOW for one of the most 

remarkable games you'll ever play. 
Only 1 15.00 (check or m.o.) for qual. cassette. 
Add $.50 postage, handling. FL res. add 4% tax. 

C8A ASSOCIATES, Inc. 

P.O. Box 2 36 2 

Satellite Beach, FL 32937 



OSBORNE FOR SUPERBRAIN 

General Ledger $125 

Accounts Payable. ... $1 25 
Accounts Receivable ... $1 50 
G/Lor A/PR Manuals . . . $20ea 
C-Basic-2 (Required). ..$110 

All features described in the 
Osborne and Assoc, manuals are 
fully implemented, additional fea- 
tures fully documented. 
ON DISKETTES, YOU GET: 

- Basic language "source code" 

- Compiled programs with data files 
- ready to run. 

EXTRAS: 

1. Additional documentation included. 

2. G/L accounts posted by A/P and A/R 
programs are operator accessable. 

3. No source code changes required. 

4. A/R handles discounts. both salesand 
term, and features expanded reports. 

JEFF JORDAN, MBA 

Management Consultant 

Route 3, Box 285 

Sandpoint, ID. 83864 

(208) 263-8365 



Circle 296 on inquiry card. 



Circle 297 on inquiry card. 



Circle 298 on inquiry card. 



Mo 



Dual Trace Oscilloscope 
HITACHI 30 MHz 

• TV sync-separater circuit 

• High-sensitivity ImV/div 
(6 MHz) 

9 Sweep-time magnifier 
(10 times) 

• Z-axis input (Intensity 
modulation) 

• Signal delay line 

I. m ; • X-Y operation 
" - f^ i • Trace Rotation 

w ^ >^_..Sf'] Model V302B 

—S 5 ^ $995 

ra sensitive to your input 




PORTABLE thandar 
OSCILLOSCOPE 



Model SC110 °-V' 

Only S369 




ULTRA LOW 

POWER 

CONSUMPTION 



• AUTOMATIC CIRCUIT 

POWER DOWN FOR 

UNUSED SECTIONS 




MAILORDER: 

P.O. BOX 2208Y 
CULVER CITY. CA 90230 
PHONE ORDERS (213) 641-4064 

Minimum Ofdei S10.00. Add S2 00 lo cover postage and 
handling Maslei Chaige and VISA welcomed. Please include 
your ctiaroe card number, interbank number and expiration date 



HICKOK DIGITAL MULTIMETERS 
LX-303 




S7495 



S89 95 

DMM + 

VARI-PITCH + 

LOGI-TRAK = 
MX-333 

s 235 




8080A 



PROCESSOR 



Sr60 



EPROM 



2708 

S 8 90 



2716 

(5 Voll) 
SQ90 



2114L 



(450 nS) 



4116 

(200 nS) 



POWER SUPPLY 

'olt 3 Amp 
APS 5-3 

S42.50 
S40.65 
S38 85 




CRT 
CONTROLLER 

5037P s 35°° 

25 UP S25.00 100 up S1900 



MOTOROLA 



UC6800P 
UC6B01 LI 
UC6B02P 

yceaoap 
yceaogp 



1222 
45.39 

«33 



MC6S60P 
MC6B6JP 
MC6B75L 



MC6BB7P 
MC6888 P 
MC6889P 



KTM-3 

KEYBOARD TERMINAL MODULE 



leariy-lL.-use tcimin. 
1(01 The dual mi 
highly cosl etfeclrv 
pioviilini) more lea 



I Syncrtek 
Systems 



The 



aujuo 



■nii grca! Mii.itiiliii 
:s used ta<lay 



display 




and absolute and re] 
KTM-3 2d x 40 c 
KTM-3/80 24 x £ 



3 H 

* 10% * 

DISCOUNT 

COUPON 



Bring this l'IM"I*0\ into one of our stores or 

mail to our Mail Order address shown below 

and receive a I 0% IMSt <M \T 

on purchases from this Ad of $50.00 or more. 

OkkVr i;\i*IHi:S on I Yhrii.irv2it. I UU I 



NAME 

ADDRESS 

CITY, .. STATE 

ZIP ... PHONE NO 

Coupons accepted only Willi lull name and address filled 



!■>. 



VISIT A STORE NEAR YOU T0"AY - We stock a large selection of Technical Boohs, Discrete Components. Integrated Circuits. Test Equipment and Electronic Supplies. 



ATLANTA 

3330 Piedmont Rd. N.E 

Atlanta, GA 30305 

(404) 261-7100 



CULVER CITY 

1 1080 Jefferson Blvd. 

Culver City. CA 90230 

(213) 390-3595 



HOUSTON 

2649 Richmond 

Houston, TX 77098 

(713] 529-3489 



PORTLAND 

1125 N.E. 82nd Ave. 

Portland, OR 97220 

(503) 254-5541 



SANTA ANA 

1300 E. Edinger Ave. 

Santa Ana, CA 92705 

(714) 547-8424 



SUNNYVALE 

1054 E. El Camino Real 

Sunnyvale, CA 94087 

(408) 243-4121 



TUCSON 

4518 E. Broadway 

Tucson, AZ 8571 1 

(602) 881-2348 



SAVE! SAVE! SAVE! 



TRS~80's 



We have discounts, free shipping and 
a TOLL FREE NUMBER available 

Call Us! 800/531-7466 

Pan American 
Electronics 



Microcomputers 




INCORPORATED 

Dept. B 

1117 Conway, Mission, Texas 78572 

TOLL FREE ORDER NUMBER 800/531-7466 

Texas & Principal Number 512/581-2765 

Telex Number 767339 



Radio /hack 

AUTHORIZED SAI I s ("I NTLK 




MottwrCcvd 



Circle 300 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



361 



add lowercase 
with our PLUG-IN 
piggyback board 

CEnTRDniC5 

NOW! Add lowercase and optional second 
character sets to ALL MODELS* including 
the popular 101A & 779; 96 character 
ASCII; optional character sets (add 
$15.00) include APL, TRS-80/H-19 Graph- 
ics, Scientific and Customer Defined. 

•Except 730. 737 and 6000 Series 
5 x 7 dot matrix — $ 95.00 (A&T) 
9 x 7 dot matrix — $135.00 (A&T) 

Postage Paid on Prepaid Order 

All products waranleed 90 days 
MasterCard. VISA. Check. MO. PO 




Digital 
Systems 

Engineering 



12503 King's Lake Drive 

Reston, Virginia 22091 

(703) 620-2994 



Circle 301 on inquiry card. 



MEMOREX 

Floppy Discs 

Lowest prices. WE WILL NOT 
BE UNDERSOLD!! Buy any 

quantity 1-1000. Visa. Mastercharge 
accepted. Call free (800)235-4137 
for prices and information. All 
orders sent postage paid. 



PACIFIC 
EXCHANGES 

100 Foothill Blvd 
San Luis Obispo. CA 
93401. (InCal. call 
(805)543-1037) 




c 6 


























ro OJ =J 








— u a 








Sales 
Insta 
Servi 



Com 











<i 








¥ 


n 




o 




§■ "is 


Li 


o 


LL 






Gro 

oorated 
Street 
ds, Ml 


01 


CO 

CO 

co 


.0, 
in 


£ 

w 

E 


z s*s 


H 


CD 


O 




h 


<^ c 


fl 


CD 


□ 

01 


u 


EPS 

418 
Granc 


H 


CO 





D 


I) 




r 
*-> 




-) 


HI 




< 








% 

1 Li 










f A 




« 


1 A. 






tf=h 




8) 








-■sU 




u. 

LI 


* 




[ 


M 




h . 



























Circle 302 on inquiry card. 



FIFTY BUS SYSTEMS 

32K 6800s from $1694.59 

32K 6809s from $1844.69 

Include: Chassis, CPU, 32K Static Ram, l/Os 
Fully Expandable 

2114L 300ns STATIC RAM CHIPS . S5.90 

PflPTflPV PRIMP From ihe same shipment we use in our 
TMUIunT rnimc professional quality boards. 
Add $5.00 Handling on Orders Under 5200.00 

32K STATIC RAM BOARD 

FORTHESS50ANDSS50C BUS (SWTP etc.) 

• SS50C Extended Addressing (can be disabled). 

• 4 separate 8K blocks • Low power 2114L RAMS 

• Sockeled lor 32K ■ Write Prolecl 

• Gold Bus Connectors 

16K $328.12 

24K $438.14 

32K $548.15 

Phone, write, or See your dealer tor details and prices on our 
broad range ot Boards and Systems tor the SS50/SS50C 
BUS Including our UNIQUE 80x24 VIDEO BOARD, and our 
AC Power Conlrol Products loi all computers. 

Gimix <51 

1337 W. 37th Place ■ Chicago, I L 60609 
(312)927-5510 ■ TWX 910-221-4055 

The Company that delivers. 

Quality Electronic products since 1975. 

GIMIX® ana GH0S1 S are Registered Trademarks oi GIMIX INC 



JOY-6 



THE ULTIMATE JOYSTICK INTERFACE 
FOR YOUR TRS-80* 



JOY-6 Is a Complete 6 Channel, 9 Bit A to D Featuring: 

■ 4 channels with variable gain — (or Joysticks 

■ 2 unbuffered channels — lor game paddles, sensors 

■ 3 digital inputs— lor pushbuttons. TTL signals 

■ Sound effects capability— (user supplies speaker) 

■ Comprehensive users manual — write your own games! 

■ Joypak-1 cassette- (Requires 16K level2)-6 exciting 
Joystick games wilh sound effects, including: 



KEtffl, 



A unique new game of slrategy and skill. Time shots and 
judge angles correctly to deleat the opponent. Use the pushbutton to 
spin your shots. Practice mode sharpens your offensive and 
defensive tactics. Variable levels of difficulty. 



SPECIAL IKTR0DUCTDRT OFFER! jof-e compete wan i joy- 
sticks WITHPUSHBU7TONS, JOYPAK I. POWER SUPPLY.USEP.SMANUAL 
ASSEMBLEO. TESTEO.PEAOY TOPLAY 0NLy $99.95 



mEGfl 

systems inc. 



PHONE 0HDEHS WELCOME 
215-337-3876 

COO . CHECK. M O MC .VISA 



Circle 303 on inquiry card. 



23 MEGABYTES 54495 




--■DCS S33H.irJ D;*c 5ub\V.ti-- Jntlurii-, JV-.B liinfor-^led 

.it i I .) DlSfOS . .".CiS "SIQrj Conlrol I i-r , t.it.l.'i .ind CBI0S 

CP- 2.2 . ■ ■'■•' <>■.-■ r u .p|. .,..,; .j- in 3 MnrJicr, 



ADAPTIVE DATA t» ENERGY SYSTEMS 
2G27 Pomona Boulevard, Pomona, California 91768 
.ill (714) 5 94-S8S8 .. i !»if,iv<. 10 '00 id '.00 ''.S. r . 

PS rOO S (OO Bus Hard Disc Controller J695 
S33 33MB Disc Controllar Subsystem S4495 
SIO WMB Disc Subsystem 13495 

■H It ■ iigiittrid DEALER INQUIRIES WELCOMED 



Circle 304 on inquiry card. 



Circle 305 on inquiry card. 



Circle 306 on inquiry card. 



STEPPER MOTOR/ 
DRIVER BOARD 

Interface your computer to 

the REAL world 

Indispensable for Robotics 

Many control applications 

Each pulse from your computer steps 

the motor 7.3° 
Features: 

■ Norlh Anwrican Philips K82701-P2 
type Stepper motor 

• SAA 1027 Stepper motor control I.C 

• Optically isolated 

• 12 VDC operation 

• All I.C.'s socketed 

• Computer controls direction of 
rotation, 7.5° per step 

PRICE 

Complete DRIVER ASSEMBLY, incl. all 

I C.'s. assembled and tested {does not include 

motor) $39.95 

STEPPER MOTOR $28.95 

SAA 1027 Driver chip only $16.50 

Data, schematics are included 

Terms. Check or moneyorder U.S. funds only UPS 

shipping and handling included (NY. slate residents 

add 7">. salts lax) Immediate delivery from Slock All 

nems gudranifL'd 



SURPLUS ELECTRONICS 




ASCII 



ASCII 



TRS-80* COMPATIBLE, IBM 
SELECTRIC® -BASED I/O TERMINAL 

with ASCII conversion installed: $645.00 



Many Other Items Available: Tape Drives; 
Cable; Cassette Drives; Wire; Power Supplies 
(5 volt 35 amp, others); Displays; Cabinets; 
Transformers; Heat Sinks; Printers; Com- 
ponents. 

Send tor Free Catalog 

WORLDWIDE ELECTRONICS, INC. 

130 Northeastern Blvd. 

Nashua, N.H. 03062 

Phone orders accepted using VISA or MC 

Toll Free 1-800-258-1036 

in NH 603-889-7661 

'TRS-80 is a trademark of the Radio Shack 

Division ot Tandy Corporation. 




16K STATIC MEMORY 

"UNISELECT" 

200 ns Memoiy Chips, A&T. 
Guaranteed S235.00 

Fully Static - 2114L2. NO DMA restrictions 
S 100 Bus - Meets IEEE-S100 Standard SW address, bank 
select in 1 6K block phantom, socketed gold contacts- 
Bank Select - by SW sellable port & bit. compatible with 
CROMEMCO, NORTH STAR. ALPHA MICRO, etc. 
Guarantee - One lull year. Check. MC. Visa or COD (S4 fee). 
Stock to 72 hour delivery. Illinois residents add 5'/*% tax 
Other • S 100 Boards available 

S. C. DIGITAL 

P.O. Box 906, Aurora, IL 60507 
Phone: (312) 897-7749 



Circle 307 on inquiry card. 



Circle 308 on inquiry card. 



Circle 309 on inquiry card. 



Circle 310 on inquiry card. 



CM 



CM 



* 



Yes! We supply 



IMSAI 

— — v 



compatible products... 



NOTE: "Original" IMSAI parts were purchased at the closing business sale of IMSAI Manufacturing Corp. 
WW Components also distributes S-100 buss IMSAI compatible parts and boards. As supplies of "original" 
parts are exhausted, WW reserves the right to supply equivalent compatible parts notmadeby IMSAI. All 
items listed as "Assembled & Tested" have been assembled by WW Components and carry a 1 year warranty. 

IKB-1 Intelligent keyboard with full ASCII character set, both serial and parallel outputs, 

+ 5VDC operation, 8035 processor and fully programmable keyboard. 

Assembled & Tested S149.50 

D 10 Disk Controller works with most 8" or 5Vt" drives. NO LSI controller chip used! 

All operations/specifications firmware controlled. Works with IMDOS or CP/IVT 2.2 

Two Board Set. Assembled & Tested 
(Specify 8" or 5 'A ") $350.00 

VDP-40 Desk-top 8085 micro-computer system with keyboard, 9" CRT display, 10 slot 

S-100 board, disk controller, 64K dynamic RAM, 2 ea. TAND0N 5 'A" disk drives, 
28 amp power supply. 

Assembled & Tested $2895.00 



1-8015 Complete 
System w/MPU-B 

CP/M®2.2 



The complete 8085 system, includes MPU-B, RAM III, 10 slot terminated mother- 
board, PS-28D, and jump start front panel. A complete G4K system! 

Assembled & Tested $1250.00 



NOW AVAILABLE - CP/M for the IMSAI floppy disk system. Version 2.2 is 
for IMSAI available for the DI0-C 8" controller. Others on request. Docs. incl. 

8" Diskette & Manuals $1 75.00 

Ask about documentation, repair service, firmware and software for your system. 

TERMS: ID PREPAID Send check or M.O. for merchandise amount only - we pay the shipping. 
(2) UPS COD or bankcard orders by phone or mail - shipping charges added. 
California Residents add 6.5% Sales Tax. 



UJ 
DC 

s 

CO 

cc 

o 

55 

o 
B! 

s 

IS 

I 




BUILD YOUR OWN LOW COST 
MICRO-COMPUTER 

POWER SUPPLIES 

FOR S-100 BUS, FLOPPY DISKS, ETC. 




POWER TRANSFORMERS (with mounting brackets) 



ITEM 
NO. 



USED IN 
KIT NO. 



PRI. WINDING 
TAPS 



SECONDARY WINDING OUTPUTS 
2x8 Vac 2x14 Vac 2 x 24 Vac 



SIZE 
WxDxH 



UNIT 
PRICE 



t 

T 5 



0V, 110V, 120V 
V, 110V, 120V 
0V, 110V, 120V 
0V, 110V, 120V 
0V, 110V, 120V 



2X7.5A 

2X12.5A 

2x9A 

2x4A 

2x4A 



2X2.5A 
2 X 3.5A 
2X2.5A 
(28V, CT) 
2x2A 



2X2.5A 
48V, CT, @3A 



3 3 /4 
3»/4 

3% 

3V< 

3' 



' x 3%" x 3/„" 
' X 4%" X 3/„" 
' X 4%" X 3/„" 
' x 3%" x 3/„" 
x3"X2'/ 2 " 



POWER SUPPLY KITS (open frame with base plate, 3 hrs. assy, time) 

ITEM USED FOR @ + 8 Vdc @ - 9 Vdc @ + 16 Vdc @-16Vdc m + 28 Vdc 



SIZE Wx Dx J 



21.95 
27.95 
29.95 
22.95 
14.95 



UNIT PRICE 



KIT 1 15 CARDS SOURCE 15A 

KIT 2 SYSTEM SOURCE 25A 

KIT 3 DISK SYSTEM 15A 



1A 



2.5A 
3A 
2A 



2.5A 
3A 

2A 



4A 



12' 

12' 

14' 



X5"X4/ B " 
X 5" X 4'/," 
X6"X4'/," 



52.95 
59.95 
67.95 



ASSY. & TESTED, OPEN FRAME, SIZE 10"(W) X 6"(D) X 4'/„"(H) 92.95 



DISK SYSTEM PWR SUPPLY "S3 

UNREGULATED OUTPUTS: +8V@15A, ± 16V@3A 

REGULATED OUTPUTS: + 5V@3A, - 5V@1A, + 24V@4A, SHORTS PROTECT. IDEAL FOR THE SYSTEM WITH 12 SLOTS MAINFRAME & TWO 8" DISK 

DRIVES, SUCH AS SHUGART801R OR SIEMANS FDD 100-8. (OPTION: OVP for +5V © ADD $5.00) 

DISK DRIVE POWER SUPPLY "R3" assy. & tested, open frame, size: 9-(W)x 6% "(dj x 4%-<h) 67.95 

SPECS: +5V @ 5A REGUL, OVP, - 5V @ 1A REG., + 24 @ 5A REG., SHORTS PROTECT. OPTIONS: 1. REPLACE + 24V BY + 12V 

2. ADD ± 12V @ 1A, $10.00 MORE. 
IDEAL FOR 2 SHUGART 801/851 OR SIEMANS FDD 100-8/200-8 DISK DRIVES & ROCKWELL AIM-65. 
SHIPPING FOR EACH TRANSFORMER: $4.75. FOR EACH POWER SUPPLY: $5.00 IN CALIF. $7.00 IN OTHER STATES. CALIF. RESIDENTS ADD 6% SALES TAX. OEM WELCOME 



MAILING ADDRESS: 
P.O. BOX 4296 
TORRANCE, CA 90510 



SUNNY INTERNATIONAL shipping address: 
(TRANSFORMERS MANUFACTURER) torranCE^ CA90502 AVE 
(213) 328-2425 MON-SAT 9-6 



Circle 311 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 



363 



<* 



COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS 
| INC. 



15620 South Ingle wood Avenue 
Lawndale, California 90260 
(213| 970-0952 



PLACE ORDERS TOIL FREE 

1-800-421-5150 

(CONTINENTAL U.S. ONLY) 

(EXCEPT CALIFORNIA) 



Retail Store Open 

10:00 A.M. to 6:00 P.M. 

Daily Except Sunday 

QT CATALOG NOW AVAILABLE 



THE GREAT Q.T. BOARD SET SALE 

6 SLOT MOTHER BOARD KIT FREE WITH EACH BOARD SET PURCHASED 



Q.T. BD SET #1 (KIT) 




FOR 


S.D. BD SET #1 (KIT) 


FOR SERIOUS 


Z+80 CPU (Rev I) 


STAF 


SBC-100 


HOBBYISTS 


Expandable + with 32K 


Our 




Expandoram I with 32K RAM 


Our 


Monitor For Serial Terminal 


Normal 
Retail 


$525.00 


Versafloppy I 

Monitor For Serial Terminal 

BIOS for 8" or 5V»" Drives 


Normal $1195.00 
Retail Y 
Q T 




Price 


$425.00 




Price $925.00 


Q.T. BD SET #2 (KIT) 




FOR 


S.D. BD SET #2 (KIT) FOR SMALL BUSINESSES 


SBC+ 2/4 Kit (Z80 4MHz) 


HOBBYISTS 


SBC-200 & SOFTWARE DEVELOPERS 


Expandable + with 64K 


Our 




Expandoram II with 32K RAM 


Our 


2422A CCS Dbl Den Controller A&T 


Normal 


$1250.00 


Versafloppy II 


Normal $1395.00 


with CP/M 






Monitor For Serial Terminal 


Retail 


Monitor For Serial Terminal 


Q.T. 
Price 


$900.00 


BIOS for Disk Drives 


Pr'ile $1100.00 



> 

I 

I 

I 



QT MEMORY EXPANSION KITS 

for 

TRS-80* APPLE • EXIDY 

4116 200 ns 8 for $32.00 

2716 (5V-450 ns) $ 9.00 

2716 (5 & 12V-450 ns) $ 9.00 

2732 (5V) $40.00 

2114L 300 ns 8 for $36.00 

100 - $3.50 ea. 



KASETTE LIBRARY 

CAS-10-8 8" Diskette Holder 
Blue/Grey/Beige/Black . $4.50 or 3/$11.00 
CAS-10-5 5" Diskette Holder 
Blue/Grey/Beige/Black .. $4.25 or 3/10.00^ 

PRINTERS 

DP-9501 - Anadex 

9x11 dot matrtx. 220 column. 200 cps & 
graphics 

AD X-9501 Standard DP-9501 ..$1475.00 
ADX-9501Gwith graphics & 2K $1525.00 

EPSON 
MX-80 $600.00 

LP-80 - Matchless 

9x7 matrix.. 132 column. 125 cps, bi-directional 

MAT-MS204 $695.00 

SPINWRITER - NEC 

65 cps. bi-directional, letter quality with tractor/ 

serial or par. 

NEC-5510 with 2K buffer $2600.00 

NOVATION CAT 

300 baud, auto answer/originate acoustic 
modem 

NOV-CAT $149.00 



WE ACCEPT 

MASTER CHARGE 

VISA & AMERICAN 

EXPRESS 



SPECIAL 

SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER 

4 MHz Z80A CPU. dbl den Controller 
(5%" or 8" simultaneously), CP/M* 
compatible, on-bd EPROM/RAM/ 
ROM, two serial & two parallel ports, 
real time elk, std 2K monitor & disk 
routine on ROM, one year warranty. 
SPECIAL PRICE 

TLT-FDC-1 (A&T only) $795.00 

DOUBLE DENSITY CONTROLLER 
Controls up to 4 mini or 4 maxi drives 
simultaneously, IBM diskette format, 
works with sgl or dbl sided drives, 1K 
RAM data buffer, works with any CPU 
regardless of clock speed, CP/M® 2.2 
furnished for 5V<" or 8", Oasis compat- 
ible. 
TLT-FDC II (A&T only) $390.00 



/I 




> 



QT MINI-SYSTEMS 



• ( 4 MHz) Z80A CPU • Dbl Den Controller 

• Two serial & two parallel ports • Real 
time clock • 2K Monitor on ROM • 48K 
Memory board • Mainframe with 6 slot 
mother board • DOS on 5'A" disk 
w/manuals. 

QT Mini-System I (V4 Megabyte) $2195.00 
Two B-51 sgl sided/dbl den drives 

QT Mini-System II (1 Megabyte) $2495.00 
Includes two B-52 dbl sided/dbl den 
drives 

(Just add terminal & compute) 



CONNECTORS 



< 



RS232 Set $7.50 

1 Male DB-25, 1 Female DB-25, 1 Cover 

DB25P $3.25 

DB25S $4.25 

Cover $1.50 

S-100 (IMSAI STYLE) $3.00 ea. 

Place Orders Toll Free 1-800-421-5150 
(Continental US Only — Except Calif.) 



Circle 312 on inquiry card. 



> 



PARTS 

MICROPROCESSORS 

Z80 (2MHz) ... $10.95 
280A (4MHz) . . $12.95 

6502 $11.25 

6800 $12.50 

6802 $18.00 

8035 $20.00 

8080A $ 3.50 

8085A $20.00 

8086-4 $60.00 

8088 $60.00 

8748 $60.00 

TMS 9900 JL . . $29.95 

8080A SUPPORT 

8212 $ 3.50 

8214 $ 4.50 

8216 $ 2.95 

8224 $ 4.00 

8228 $ 6.00 

8238 $ 6.00 

8243 $ 5.00 

8251 $ 7.00 

8253 $19.00 

8253-5 $20.25 

8255 $ 6.25 

8257 $17.95 

8257-5 $19.00 

8259 $19.95 

8275 $69.95 

8279 $17.50 

8279-5 $18.00 

8295 $16.50 

KEYBOARD CHIPS 

AY5-2376 $13.75 

AY5-3600 $13.75 

BAUD RATE 
GENERATORS 

MC14411 ... $11.00 
1.8432 XTAL ...$ 4.95 
DISK CONTROLLER 

1771B01 $24.95 

1791A01(CER) $37.95 



EPROMS ^ 

1702A $ 4.95 

2708 $ 6.25 

2516 (5V) $18.00 

2716 (5V) $13.50 

2716 (5 & 12V) $13.50 

2758 $19.95 

2532 $55.00 

2732 $55.00 

USRT 
S23S0 $ 7.95 

MISCELLANEOUS 
OTHER COMPONENTS 

N8T20 $ 3.25 

N8T26 $ 2.50 

N8T97 $ 2.00 

N8T98 $ 2.00 

1488 $ 1.25 

1489 $ 1.25 

D3205 $ 3.00 

D3242 $14.00 

P3404 $ 6.75 

TMS5501 $19.00 

DM8131 $ 3.00 

UARTS 

TR1602B $ 4.50 

AY5-1013A $ 4.50 

CHARACTER 
GENERATORS 

2513 $10.95 

UP CASE (5&12V) 
2513 $10.95 

LWR CASE (5&12V) 
2513 $ 9.75 

UP CASE (5V) 
2513 $10.95 

LWR CASE (5V) 

6800 PRODUCTS 

6802P $18.00 

6821P $ 5.25 

6840P $18.25 

6845P $22.00 

6850P. $ 4.80 

6860P $11.55 

6875P. $ 7.40 



V 



TELEVIDEO 

912C $699.00 

920C $799.00 

• Typewriter keyboard • Microprocessor 
controls • Upper/lower case • Adjust- 
able baud rates (75-9600 baud) • Special 
function keys 
Second page memory option. . . $25.00 



< 



DISKETTES 



VER-525-01 Solt sector S27.95 

VER-525-10 10 sector $27.95 

VER-52S-16 16 sector 527.95 

6»" d»i >»■ del der.. bo, oi 10 

VER-550-01 Soft sector $39.95 

VER-34-1000 Sott sector $33.95 



V 



VER-34-8000 Soft sector $55.95 

dbi sided dbl den bo* of 10 
VER-34-4000 Sott sector $57.95 



HARD HOLES 



FSI-HHD P-cg of 50 lor 8" $15.00 

FSI-HDA S" Applicator $ 5.25 

FSI-HHM Pkg of 50 tor 5'/." $10.75 

FSI-HMA 5'/." Applicator $ 5.00 



J 



QT MAINFRAMES 



Mainframe - Cal Comp Sys 
12 stot S-100 mainframe with 20 amp power supply 

CCS-2200AT A&T $349.95 

QT 8" Disk Mainframe 
Dual 8" drive cutouts with 6 slot motherboard 

QTC-MF*DD6 with 30 amp p.s $625.00 

5'/." Disk Mainframes with 1 8A 

QTC-MF»MD12 (12 slot M/B) $500.00 

QTC-MF+MD6 (6 slot M/B) $450.00 

QTC-MF»MD w/o M/B $400.00 

O.T. Mainframe 

MF*12 (12 slot M/B) $450.00 

MF*18 (18 slot M/B) $500.00 

t MF*22 (22 slot M/B) $600.00 



DISK DRIVES 



OT DISK PACKAGE 

Dbl Den Controller A&T. Iwo 8' dbi den drives. GP.M 2 2 cabinet power 

supply 4 cables $1395.00 

DUAL 8" DRIVES 

Dbl Den Duves in Cab.net Only 

2 sgl sided (801R) $ 989.00 

2 dbl sided (QUME) $1409.00 

8" DISK DRIVES 

SHUGART lloppy dish drivel igl tided, dbl density. 

SHU-801R 5 395.00 

Special Sale Price 2 lor $775.00 

QME-8DS (851R compatible) 5 599.00 

Pkg ol two 5 549.00 ea. 

5V," DRIVES 
MPI-B51 MPI B-51 $ 235.00 

Sgl Sided. SglDbi Den 
Enaci Replacement lor SA-400 

MPI-B52 MPI B-52 $ 350.00 

Dbl Sided Dbl Den 

MPI-B91 MPI 8-91 $ 395.00 

Sgl Sided. Dbl Den. 77 Tracks 



V 



J 



rQT MOTHERBOARDS 1 


OT Silence Plus 

6 Slot 15'." * B- | 


... $19.95 


QTC-6 Slot K kit 


$39.95 


QTC-6 Slot AT A81T .... 




13 sioi (9 ." < a-. 1 

QTC-12 Slot BB Bare board 

OTC-12 Slot K kit 


$29.95 


QTC-12 Slot AT A&T 




la sioi ii4v > a. 1 

QTC-18 Slot BB Bare board 

QTC-18 Slot AT A&T 


$ 49.95 



QT APPLE CORNER 



MEX-16A2 Apple kit $32.00 

DISK DRIVE for APPLE 

APL-5DC with controller $535.00 

APL-5D w/out controller $450.00 

8" DRIVES lor APPLE 

Controller, two 8" drives, cabinet & cable $1450.00 

QT APPLE DISK II 
Dbl sided, dbl den. two 8" QUME drives with controller, 
pwr supply, cabinet, cabling, documentation & one box 

diskettes $2195.00 

QT APPLE DISK III 

Same as Above - no controller $1695.00 

Al/O - S.S.M. 
Parallel & serial interlace for your Apple 

SSM-AIO K Kit $159.00 

SSM-AIO AT A&T $199.00 

APPLE CLOCK - OT System 

QTC-CCA-AT A&T $125.00 

SUPERTALKER - Mtn Hardware 



Spe 



icogni 



MHW-STLK A&T $275.00 

Z-80 CARD tor APPLE (MICRO-SOFT) 

2-BO CPU card with CP/M lor ydur Apple 

MST-Z80 A&T $289.00 

MICROMODEM - D.C. Hayes 

Auto answer/dial modem card (or Apple or S-100 

DCH-MM2 Apple modem $349.95 

DCH-MM100 S-100 modem $375.00 



^ 



TEXTOOL 



V 



ZIP* DIP II SOCKETS 

16 PIN ZIP* DIP II $ 5.50 

21 PIN ZIP* DIP II $ 7.50 

40 PIN ZIP* DIP II $10.25 

•ZERO INSERTION PRESSURE 



r 



BARE BOARDS AVAILABLE 
ON MANY PRODUCTS 



S-100 PRODUCTS 



Double Density - Cal Comp Sys 

5'/." or 8" disk controller with free CP/M 2.2 
CCS-2422A A&T $374.95 

SBC-100-SD Systems 

2.5 MHz Z80 CPU with serial & parallel I/O ports 

SDS-SBC100K Kit $318.00 

SDS-SBC100AT A&T $385.00 

SBC-200 - SD Systems 

4 MHz Z80 CPU with serial & parallel I/O ports 

SDS-SBC200K Kit $348.00 

SDS-SBC200AT A&T $408.00 

CB2 - S.S.M. 

2 or 4 MHz switchable Z80 CPU with RAM, ROM & I/O 

SSM-CB2K Kit $239.95 

SSM-CB2AT A&T $299.95 

2810 Z-80 CPU - Cal Comp Sys 

2 or 4 MHz Z80A CPU w/serial I/O port 

CCS-2810 A&T $275.00 

ExpandoRAM I - SD Systems 

2.5 MHz RAM board expandable from 16K to 64K 

SDS-RAM16K 16K kit $269.95 

SDS-RAM16AT 16K A&T $319.95 

SDS-RAM32K 32K kit $309.95 

SDS-RAM32AT 32K A&T $359.95 

SDS-RAM48K 48K kit $349.95 

SDS-RAM48AT 48K A&T $399.95 

SDS-RAM64K 64K kit $389.95 

SDS-RAM64AT 64K A&T $439.95 

S-100 Extender - Cal Comp Sys 

Puts problem boards within easy reach 

k CCS-2520A A&T $ 24.95 



ExpandoRAM II - SD Systems 

4 MHz RAM board expandable from 16K to 256K 

SDS-RAM216K 16K kit $289.95 

SDS-RAM216AT 16K A&T $339.95 

SDS-RAM232K 32K kit $329.95 

SDS-RAM232AT 32K A&T $379.95 

SDS-RAM248K 48K kit $369.95 

SDS-RAM248AT 48K A&T $419.95 

SDS-RAM264K 64K kit $409.95 

SDS-RAM264AT 64K A&T $459.95 

16K Static RAM - Cal Comp Sys 

2 or 4 MHz 16K static RAM - a real memory bargain 

CCS-2016B 16K 2 MHz A&T $279.00 

CCS-2016BCK 16K 4 MHz A&T $309.00 

PB-1 - S.S.M. 

2708. 2716 EPROM board with built-in programmer 

SSM-PB1K kit $159.95 

SSM-PB1AT A&T $239.95 

PROM-100 - SD Systems 

2708. 2716. 2732, 2758 & 2516 EPROM programmer 

SDS-PROM-100K kit $220.00 

SDS-PROM-100AT A&T $275.00 

I/0-4 - S.S.M. 

2 serial I/O ports plus 2 parallel I/O ports 

SSM-I04K kit $179.95 

SSM-104AT A&T $259.95 

SSM-I04BB Bare board $ 35.00 

SB1-S.S.M. 

15 Hz to 25K Hz music synthesizer for S-100 

SSM-SB1K kit $239.95 

SSM-SB1AT A&T $299.95 



WE ACCEPT M/C 
VISA & AM EXP 

Versatloppy I - SD Systems 

Versatile floppy disk controller for 8" or 5%" 

SDS-VFIK $265.00 

SDS-VFIAT A&T $315.00 

Versafloppy II - SD Systems 

New double density controller for both 8" & 5V«" 

SDS-VF2K kit $385.00 

SDS-VF2AT A&T $450.00 

VDB-8024 - SD Systems 

80 x 24 I/O mapped video board with keyboard I/O 

SDS-VDBK kit $406.00 

SDS-VDBAT A&T $475.00 

VB3 - S.S.M. 

80 x 24 x 48 memory mapped with graphics 

SSM-VB3-4mhzK kit, 4 MHz $399.95 

SSM-VB3-4mhzAT A&T, 4 MHz . . . $464.95 
SSM-VB3-4mhzllPG 80 x 48 upgrade. 4 MHz 

$ 89.00 

VIDEO BOARD -Ithaca Audio 

64 x 16 assembled & tested S-100 video board 

IIS-VBDAT A&T $99.95 

T1 Active Terminator 

SSM-T1K kit $ 34.00 

SSM-T1AT A&T $ 64.00 

VB2 I/O Mapped Video Interface 

SSM-VB2K kit $160.00 

SSM-VB2AT A&T $210.00 

XB1 Extender Board 
SSM-XB1K kit (with Connector) ... $ 22.00 
SSM-XB1AT Assembled & tested . . $ 30.00 

Z-80 STARTER KIT - SD Systems 

Z-80 computer with RAM. ROM. I/O & keyboard 

SDS-Z80K kit $374.00 

SDS-Z80AT A&T $454.00 



<T 



COMPUTER 
SYSTEMS 

J INC. 

15620 South Inglcwood Avenue 
l.avvndale, California 90260 
(213) 970-0052 



PLACE ORDERS TOLL FREE 

1-800-421-5150 

(CONTINENTAL U.S. ONLY) 

(EXCEPT CALIFORNIA) 

Apple is a trademark o I Apple Computer, Inc. 
CP/M and MP/M are trademarks of Digital Research. 
TRS-80 is a trademark of Radio Shack. 

Circle 312 on inquiry card. 



TERMS OF SALE: Cash, checks, money orders, 
credit cards accepted. Also C.O.D. orders under 
$100.00. Minimum order $1000. California resi- 
dents add 6% sales tax. Minimum shipping and 
handling charge $2.50. Prices subject to change 
without notice. International sales in American 
dollars only. 



WE'RE GIV 

We're not selling it. The JADE Catalog is the best, and the best things 
in life are free. We will send you our new 1981 edition describing over 
4000 microcomputer parts, components, boards, systems, accessories, 



S-100 Boards 




64K RAM Board - Cal Comp Sys 

4 MHz, bank selectable, IEEE standard 
MEM-64565A A & T $449.95 

Memory Bank - Jade 

4 MHz, IEEE S-100, bank selectable, 8 or IB bit 

MEM-99730K Kit, no RAM $219.95 

MEM-16730K 16K kit $249.95 

MEM-16730A 16K A & T $299.95 

MEM-32731K 32K kit $289.95 

MEM-32731A 32K A & T $339.95 

MEM-48732K 48 K kit $324.95 

MEM-48732A 48K A &T $374.95 

MEM-64733K 64K kit $359.95 

MEM-64733A 64K A & T $409.95 

MEM-99730B Bare board $55.00 

ExpandoRAM II - SD Systems 

4 MHz RAM board expandable from 16K to 256K 

MEM-16630K 16 K kit $289.95 

MEM-16630A 16K Jade A & T $339.95 

MEM-32631K 32K kit $329.95 

MEM-32631A 32K Jade A &T $379.95 

MEM-48632K 48K kit $369.95 

MEM-48631A 48K Jade A & T $419.95 

MEM-64633K 64K kit $409.95 

MEM-64633A 64KJade A & T $459.95 

32K STATIC RAM - Jade 

2 or 4 MHz expandable static RAM board uses 2114L's 

MEM-16151K 16K 4 MHz kit $169.95 

MEM-16151A 16K 4 MHz A & T ... $224.95 

MEM-32151K 32K 4 MHz kit $299.95 

MEM-32151A 32K 4 MHz A & T ... $349.95 

16K STATIC RAM - Cal Comp Sys 

2 or 4 MHz 16K static RAM - a real memory bargain 
MEM-16160A 16K 2 MHz A & T ... $279.00 
MEM-16162A 16K 4 MHz A & T . . . $309.00 
MEM-16160B Bare board $29.95 

THE BIG Z* - Jade 

2 or 4 MHz switchable Z-80* CPU with serial I/O 

CPU-30201K Kit $145.00 

CPU-30201A A &T $199.00 

CPU-30200B Bare board $35.00 

SBC- 100 - SD Systems 

2.5 MHz Z-80* CPU with serial & parallel I/O ports 

CPC-30100K Kit $299.95 

CPC-30100A Jade A &T $369.95 

SBC-200 - SD Systems 

4 MHz Z-80* CPU with serial & parallel I/O ports 

CPC-30200K Kit $339.95 

CPC-30200A Jade A & T $399.95 

CB2 - S.S.M. 

2 or 4 MHz switchable Z 80* CPU with RAM, ROM, & I/O 

CPU-30300K Kit $239.95 

CPC-30300A A & T $299.95 

2810 Z-80* CPU - Cal Comp Sys 

2/4 MHz Z-80 A* CPU w/ serial I/O port 
CPU-30400A A & T $275.00 



DOUBLE-D- Jade 

Double density controller with the inside track 

IOD-1200K Kit $299.95 

IOD-1200A 8"A&T $389.95 

IOD-1205A 5'/," A&T $389.95 

IOD-1200B Bare board $65.00 

DOUBLE DENSITY - Cal Comp Sys 

5V," or 8" disk controller with free CP/M 2.2 
IOD-1300A A & T $374.95 

VERSAFLOPPY II - SD Systems 

New double density controller for both 8" & 5'A" 

IOD-1160K Kit $379.95 

IOD-1 160A Jade A &T $439.95 

S.P.I.C. - Jade 

Our new I/O card with 2 SIOs, 4 CTC's, and 1 PIO 
IOI-1045K 2 CTC's, 1 SIO, 1 PIO .. $199.00 

IOI-1045A A & T $259.00 

IOI-1046K 4 CTC's, 2 SIO's, 1 PIO $259.00 

IOI-1046A A & T $319.00 

IOI-1045B Bare board w/ manual . . . $59.95 
IOI-1045D Manual only $20.00 

1/0-4 - S.S.M. 

2 serial I/O ports plus 2 parallel I/O ports 

IOI-1010K Kit $179.95 

IOI-1010A A&T $259.95 

IOI-1010B Bare board $35.00 

100K DAY CLOCK - Mtn Hardware 

Crystal controlled S-100 clock with NiCad backup 
IOK-1400A A&T $329.95 

SB1 - S.S.M. 

15 Hz to 25K Hz music synthesizer for S-100 

IOS-1005K Kit $239.95 

IOS-1005A A&T $299.95 

TB-4 - Mullen 

Extremely versatile extender board with logic probe 

TSX-180K Kit $55.00 

TSX-180A A&T $75.00 

S-100 EXTENDER - Cal Comp Sys 

Puts problem boards within easy reach 
TSX-160A A&T $24.95 

VIDEO BOARD - Jade 

64 x 16 assembled & tested S-100 uideo board 

IOV-1050B Bare board $25.00 

IOV-1050K Kit $99.95 

IOV-1050A A&T sale price $139.95 

VDB-8024 - SD Systems 

80 x 24 I/O mapped uideo board with keyboard I/O 

IOV-1020K Kit $399.95 

IOV-1020A Jade A&T $459.95 

VB3 - S.S.M. 

80 x 24 or 80 x 48 memory mapped with graphics 

IOV-1095K Kit, 4 MHz $399.95 

IOV-1095A A&T, 4 MHz $464.95 

IOV-1096K 80 x 48 upgrade, 4 MHz . $89.00 

PB-1 - S.S.M. 

2708, 2716 EPROM board with built-in programmer 

MEM-99510K Kit $159.95 

MEM-99510A A&T $239.95 

PROM-100 - SD Systems 

2708, 27i6, 2732, 2758, & 2516 EPROM programmer 

MEM-99520K Kit $219.95 

MEM-99520A Jade A & T $269.95 



Single Board Computers 




AIM-65 - Rockwell 

6502 computer with printer, display, & keyboard 

CPK-50165 IK AIM $374.95 

CPK-50465 4 K AIM $449.95 

SFK-74600008E 8K BASIC ROM ...$99.95 
SFK-64600004E 4K assembler ROM $84.95 

PSX-030A Power supply $64.95 

ENX-000002 Enclosure $49.95 

4K AIM, 8K BASIC, power supply, & enclosure 
Special package price $625.00 

Z-80* STARTER KIT - SD Systems 

Z-80* computer with RAM, ROM, I/O, & keyboard 

CPS-30010K Kit $369.95 

CPS-30010A Jade A&T $459.95 

Motherboards 

ISO-BUS- Jade 

Silent, simple, and on sale - a better motherboard 
6 Slot (5'/." x 8%") 

MBS-061B Bare board $19.95 

MBS-061K Kit $39.95 

MBS-061A A&T $49.95 

12 Slot (W x 8y B ") 

MBS-121B Bare board $29.95 

MBS-121K Kit $69.95 

MBS-121A A&T $89.95 

18 Slot (14'//' x 8 s /s") 

MBS-181B Bare board $49.95 

MBS-181K Kit $99.95 

MBS-181A A&T $139.95 

Mainframes 

MAINFRAME - Cal Comp Sys 

12 slot S-100 mainframe with 20 amp power supply 

ENC-112105 Kit $309.95 

ENC-112106 A&T $349.95 

DISK MAINFRAME - NNC 

Dual 8" driue cutouts with 8 slot motherboard 
ENS-1 12320 with 30 amp p. s $699.95 

Video Monitors 

9 " B & W MONITOR - A.P.F. 

High quality, high resolution uideo monitor 
VDM-750900 9" monitor $149.95 

13" COLOR MONITOR - Zenith 

The hi res color you'ue been promising yourself 
VDC-201301 $449.00 

12" GREEN SCREEN - NEC 

20 MHz, P31 phosphor uideo monitor with audio 
VDM-651200 12" monitor $249.95 

SUP'R'MOD II - M & R Assoc 

Color or B & W TV interface recommended for Apple 
IOR-5050A A&T $29.95 



ING IT AWAY 

peripherals, and software. All you have to do is ask for it. Just circle 
our inquiry number on the reader service card in the rear of this 
magazine and we will send you the best. It's free and it's easy. 



Accessories for Apple 




16K MEMORY UPGRADE 

Add 16K of RAM to your TRS-80, Apple, or Exidy 

MEX-16100K TRS-80 kit $39.95 

MEX-16101K Apple kit $39.95 

MEX-16102K Exidy kit $39.95 

DISK DRIVE for APPLE 

5'//' disk drive with controller for your Apple 

MSM-12310C with controller $475.00 

MSM-123101 w/ out controller $375.00 

8" DRIVES for APPLE 

Complete kit with controller, DOS, and two 8" drives 
Special package price $1475.00 

AIO - S.S.M. 

Parallel & serial interface for your Apple 

IOI-2050K Kit $159.00 

IOI-2050A A & T $199.00 

PRINTER INTERFACE - Cal Comp 

Sys 

Centronics type I/Ocard w/ firmware 
IOI-2041A A & T $99.95 

APPLE CLOCK - Cal Comp Sys 

Real time clock w/battery back-up 
IOK-2030A A & T $119.95 

SUPERTALKER - Mtn Hardware 

Speech recognition/synthesizer w/speaker & mike 
IOS-2015A A&T $275.00 

Z-80* CARD for APPLE 

Z-80* CPU card with CP/Mfor your Apple 
CPX-30800A A&T $279.95 

MICROMODEM - D.C. Hayes 

Auto answer/dial modem card for Apple or S-100 

IOM-2010A Apple modem $349.95 

IOM-1100A S-100 modem $375.00 

Micronet Modem - Micromate 

Direct connect modem with extra features 
IOM-2020A Best Apple modem $275.00 



8" Disk Drive Sale Printers 




EPROM ERASERS 

Spectronics hi intensity industrial eraser 

XME-3100 Without timer $69.95 

XME-3101 With timer $94.50 

L.S. Engineering UV eraser for up to 48 EPROMs 
XME-3200 A&T $39.95 




JADE's new dual disk sub-assemblies include: 
Handsome metal cabinet with proportionally 
balanced air flow system, rugged dual drive power 
supply, cooling fan, cable kit, lighted power 
switch, approved fuse assembly, line cord, Never- 
Mar rubber feet, and all necessary hardware to 
mount 2-8" disk drives - it's all American made, 
guaranteed for six monthes, and it's in stock! 
Dual 8" Sub-Assembly Cabinet 

END-000421 Cabinet kit $225.00 

END-000420 Bare cabinet $59.95 

Single sided, double density disk drive sub-system 
END-000423 Kit w/ 2 8" drives .... $995.00 
END-000424 A & T w/ 2 8" drives $1195.00 

Doublesided, double density disk drive sub-system 
END-000426 kit w/ 2 8" drives .... $1495.00 
END-000427 A & Tw/2 8" drives $1695.00 

8" DISK DRIVES 

Highly reliable double density floppy disk drives 
Shugart 801R single sided, double density 

MSF-10801R SA-801R $425.00 

Special Sale Price 2 for $790.00 

Siemens FDDL00-8D2 single sided, double density 

MSF-201 120 6 mo warranty $395.00 

Special sale price 2 for $750.00 

Qume Datatrak 8 double sided, double density 
MSF-750080 SA-851R compatible . . $625.00 
Special sale price 2 for $1198.00 

JADE DISK PACKAGE 

Double-D controller kit, two 8" double density drives 

CP/M 2.2, cabinet, power supply, & cables 

Special package price $1395.00 

DISKETTES - Jade 

Bargain prices on magnificent magnetic media 
5 l A" single sided, single density, box of 10 

MMD-51 10103 Soft sector $27.95 

MMD-5111003 10 sector $27.95 

MMD-51 1 1603 16 sector $27.95 

5'/i" doublesided, double density, box of 10 

MMD-5220103 Soft sector $39.95 

8" single sided, single density, box of 10 

MMD-8110103 Soft sector $33.95 

8" single sided, double density, box of 10 

MMD-8120103 Soft sector $39.95 

8" double sided, double density, box of 10 
MMD-8220103 Soft sector $57.95 

NOVATION CAT 

300 baud, auto answer/originate acoustic modem 
IOM-5200A Special sale price $139.00 

D-CAT 300 baud, direct connect modem 
IOM-5201A Special sale price $179.00 

* Z-80, Z-80 A, and the let terZ are recognized trademarks 
ofZilog, Inc. *CP/M is a registered trademark or Digital 
Research Corp. *CBASIC is a trademark of Compiler 
Systems, Inc. 

Circle 313 on inquiry card. 







SPINWRITER - NEC 

65 cps, bi-directional, letter quality with tractor 
PRD-55510 with 16K buffer $2595.00 

CENTRONICS 737-1 

9 x N dot matrix, letter quality, proportional spacing 

PRM-15737 Parallel $795.00 

With interface for Apple $895.00 

MX-80 - Epson 

132 column, 9x9 dot matrix, multiple fonts 

PRM-27080 Save $100.00 $545.00 

Interface for Apple $110.00 



MICROPROCESSORS 

Z-80 10.95 

Z-80A 12.95 

6502 11.50 

6800 11.95 

6802 17.95 

6809 39.95 

8035 24.00 

8080A 6.59 

8085 15.95 

8748 59.95 

Z-80 SUPPORT 

3881 PIO 9.50 

3881-4 P [0-4 MHz . 14.50 

3882 CTC 9.50 

3882-4 CICAMHz 14.95 

3883 SIO 29.50 

3884 670 49.50 

6800 
SUPPORT 

6821P 5.95 

6828P 11.95 

6834P 22.50 

6840P 18.75 

6800 P 4.80 

6852P 5.79 

6875L 7.40 

68488P 25.00 

BAUD RATE 
GENERATORS 

MC14411 10.00 

1.843 MHz xtal 4.95 

UARTS 

AY5-1013A 5.25 

AY3-1014A 8.25 

TR1602B 5.25 

TMS6011 5.95 

IM6402 9.00 



PROMS 

2708 450ns 8^5 

10 for $59. 00 

2716 12.5u 12.95 

2716 Sv 12.95 

10 for $99.00 

2532 Sv 39.95 

2732 Su 39.95 

2758 Sv 19.95 

RAMS 

21L02 2 MHz 1.25 

21L02A 4 MHz 1.50 

2114L 2 MHz 3.75 

2114LA 4 MHz 3.95 

2147 70ns 39.95 

4116 4.95 

4164 64K xl 175.00 

5257 2 MHz 6.75 

5257A 4 MHz 7.25 

MK4118 18.95 

SUPPORT 

DEVICES 

8212 4.95 

8214 4.65 

8216 2.95 

8224 3.25 

8224-4 10.95 

8226 3.85 

8228 4.95 

8238 4.95 

8243 8.00 

8250 14.95 

8251 650 

8253 13.95 

8255 6.50 

8257 19.95 

8259 17.95 

8275 49.95 

8279 15.95 



PLACE ORDERS TOLL FREE 

Continental U.S. Inside California 
800-421-5500 800-262-1710 

For Technical Inquiries or Customer Service call 

213-973-7707 



Computer Products 

4901 W. Rosecrans, Hawthorne, Ca 90250 

TERMS OF SALE: Cash, chocks, credit cards, or 
Purchase Orders from qualified firms and institutions. 
Minimum order $15.00. California residents add 6% tax. 
Minimum shipping and handling charge $2.50 Pricing 
and availability subject to change without notice. 



SN74O0N 


.25 


7401 




SN74156N 


.79 


SN7401N 


.20 






SN74157N 


.63 


SN7402N 


.25 


SN7472N 


.29 


SN74160N 


.89 


SN7403N 


.25 


SN7473N 


.35 


SN74161N 


.as 


SN7404N 


.25 


SN7474N 


.35 


SN74162N 


.89 


SN7405N 


.29 


SN7475N 


.49 


SN74163N 


.89 


SN7406N 


.35 


SN7476N 


.35 


SN74164N 


-83 


SN7407N 


.35 


SN7479N 


5.00 


SN74165N 


.89 


SN7408N 


.29 


SN7480N 


.50 


SN74166N 


1.25 


SN7409N 


.29 


SN7482N 


.99 


SN74167N 


2.73 


SN7410N 


.25 


SN74B3N 


.69 


SN74170N 


1.35 


SN7411N 


.29 


SN7485N 


.89 


SN74172N 


4.95 


SN7412N 


.35 


SN7486N 


.35 


SN74173N 


1.33 


SN7413N 


.40 


SN74B9N 


1.75 


SN74174N 


.39 


SN7414N 


.69 


SN7490N 


.49 


SN7417SN 


.89 


SN7416N 


.29 


SN7491N 


.59 


SP074176N 


.73 


SN7417N 


.29 


SN7492N 


.45 


SN74177N 


.73 


SN7420N 


.25 


SN7493N 


.45 


SN74179N 


1.49 


SN7421N 


.29 


SN7494N 


.69 


SN74180N 


.79 


SN7422N 


.45 


5N7495N 


.69 


SN74181N 


2.25 


SN7423N 


.29 


SN7496N 


.69 


SN74182N 


.79 


SN7425N 


.29 


SN7497N 


3.00 


SN74184N 


2.49 


Sro7426N 


.29 


SN7410QN 


1.49 


SN74185N 


2.49 


SN7427N 


.25 


SN741Q7N 


.35 


SN74190N 


1.25 


SN7429N 


.39 


SN74109N 


.39 


SN74191N 


1.25 


SN7430N 


.25 


5N74116N 


1.95 


SN74192N 


.89 


SN7432N 


.29 


SN74121N 


.39 


SN74193N 


.89 


SN7437N 


.25 


SN74122N 


.55 


SN74194N 


.89 


SN743BN 


.40 


SN74123N 


.59 


SN74195N 


.69 


SN7439N 


.25 


SN74125N 


.49 


SN74196N 


-89 


SN7440N 


.20 


SN74126N 


.49 


SN74197N 


.89 


SN7441N 


.89 


SN74132N 


.75 


SN74198N 


1.49 


SN7442N 


.59 


SN74136N 


.75 


SN74199N 


1.49 


SN7443N 


1.10 


SN74141N 


.99 


SN74221N 


1.25 


SN7444N 


1.10 


SN74142N 


3.25 


SN7425LN 


.99 


SN7445N 


.89 


SN74143N 


3.49 


SN74276N 


1.95 


SN7446N 


.79 


SN74144N 


3.49 


SN74279N 


.79 


SN7447N 


.69 


SN74145N 


.79 


SN74283N 


1.49 


SN7448N 


.79 


SN74147N 


1.95 


SN742B4N 


3.95 


SN7450N 


.20 


SN7414BN 


1.29 


SN74285N 


3.95 


SN7451N 


20 


SN741S0N 


1.25 


SN74365N 


.69 


SN74S3N 


.20 


SN74151N 


.69 


SN74366N 


.69 


SN74S4N 


.20 


SN74152N 


.69 


SN74367N 


.69 


SN7459A 


-25 


SN74153N 


.79 


SN74368N 


.69 


SN7460N 


.20 


SN74154N 


1.25 


SN74390N 


1.49 


SN7470N 


.29 


SN74155N 


.79 


SN74393N 


1.49 


74LS0O 


.29 


74LS 


74L5192 


1.15 










74L5193 


1.15 


74LS02 


.29 


74LS92 


.75 


74LS194 


1.15 


74LS03 


.29 


74LS93 


.75 


74LS195 




74LS04 


.35 


74LS95 


.99 


74LS197 


1.19 


74LS05 


.35 


74L596 


1.15 


74LS221 


1.19 


74LS08 


.29 


74LS1Q7 


.45 


74LS240 


1.95 


74LS09 


.35 


74LS109 


.45 


74LS241 




74LS10 


.29 


74LS112 


.45 


74LS242 




74LS11 


.75 


74LS113 


.49 


74L5243 




74LS12 


,31 


74L5114 


.49 


74LS244 


1.95 


74LS13 




74LS122 


.89 


74LS245 




74LS14 


.99 


74LS123 


1.2S 


74LS247 


1.19 


74LS15 


.35 


74LS125 


.59 


74LS248 


1.19 


74LS20 


.29 


74L5126 


.55 


74LS249 


1.19 


74LS21 


.35 


74LS132 


.99 


74LS251 


1.49 


74LS22 


.35 


74LS133 


.as 


74LS253 


.99 


74LS26 


.35 


74LS136 


.49 


74LS257 


.89 


74LS27 


.35 


74LS13B 


.89 


74L5258 




74L52S 


.35 


74LS139 


.89 


74LS260 




74L530 


.29 


74LS151 


.89 


74L526E 


.69 


74LS32 


.35 


74L5153 


.89 


74LS273 


1.95 


74LS33 


.59 


74LS1S4 


1.75 


74LS279 


.75 


74LS37 


.45 


74LS155 


1.19 


74LS283 


1.09 


74LS3B 


.49 


74LS156 


1.19 


74LS290 




74LS4Q 


.35 


74LS157 


.89 


74LS293 




74LS42 


.89 


74LS158 


.99 


74L5298 


1.25 


74LS47 


.89 


74LS16Q 


1.15 


74LS352 




74LS48 


1.15 


74L5161 


1.15 


74L5353 


1.29 


74LS49 


1.15 


74L5162 


1.15 


74LS365 


.75 


74LSS1 


.29 


74L5163 


1.15 


74LS366 


.75 


74LSS4 


.29 


74LS164 


1.25 


74LS367 


.75 


74LS55 


.29 


74L5165 


1.25 


74L5368 




74LS73 


.45 


74LS168 


1.19 


74LS373 




74L574 


.45 


74LS169 


1.19 


74L5374 




74LS7S 


■59 


74LS170 


2.49 


74LS375 


.89 


74L576 


.45 


74LS173 


1.39 


74L5386 


fiS 


74LS78 


.49 


74LS174 


.99 


74LS393 


2.49 


74LS83 


.89 


74LS175 


.99 


74L5399 


2.49 


74LS85 


1.25 


74LS1B1 


2.95 


74LS670 




74L58& 


.45 


74LSL90 


1.25 


B1LS95 




74L590 


.59 


74LS191 


1.25 


S1L597 


1.95 



74500 
74S02 
74S03 
74504 
74S05 
74508 
74S09 
74S1D 
74S11 
74515 
74520 
74S22 
74530 
74S32 
74S40 
74S51 
74S64 
74565 
74S74 
74586 
745112 
745113 
745114 



74S 



ITED A' 



745133 

74S134 
74S135 
745136 
74S138 

745139 
745140 
74S151 
745153 
745157 
74S15B 
745174 
745175 
74S18B 
745194 
745195 
745196 
74S24G 
745241 
745242 
745243 
AILABILITV 



3.95 
2.95 
2.95 
3.25 



74.5244 

74S251 

74S253 

745257 

745258 

745260 

745280 

74S2B7* 

745288* 

745373 

745374 

745387' 

745471* 

745472* 

74S473* 

745474* 

74S47S* 

745570* 

745571* 7 

745572* 19 

745573* 19 

745940 3 

745941 3 
ESE PROMS 



2.95 
4.95 
4.95 

3.49 
3.49 
5.95 
19.95 
19.95 
19.95 
21.95 
21.95 



CA3013H 2,15 

CA3023H 3.25 

CA3039H 1.35 

CA304GN 1.30 

CA3059N 3.25 

CA3060N 3.25 

CA3Q80H 1.25 



CA-LINEAR 

CA30SIN 2.00 

CA3082N 2.00 

CAJC83N 1.60 

CA30S6N .85 



3.95 



CA3089N 
CA3096N 

CA3130H 1.39 

CA3140H 1.25 

CA3160H 1.25 

CA3401N .59 

CA360QN 3.50 



CD4000 
CD4001 
CD4002 
CD4006 
CD4007 
CD40Q9 
CD4010 
CD4011 
CD4012 
CD4013 
CD4014 
CD4015 
CD4016 
CD4017 
CD4018 
CD4019 
CD4D20 
CD4Q21 
CD4022 
CD4023 
CD4024 
CD4025 
CD4026 
CD4027 
CD4028 
CD4029 
CD403O 
CD4035 
CD4O40 



V CD4W 



CD-CMOS 



CD4041 
CD4042 
CD4043 
CD4044 
CD4046 
CD4047 
CD404B 
CD4049 
CD4050 
CD4051 
CD4052 
CD4053 
CD4056 
CD4059 
CD4060 
CD4065 
CD4068 
CD4069 
CD4070 
CD4071 
CD4072 
CD4073 
CD4075 
CD4076 
CD4031 



CD4082 

CD4093 

CD409B 

CD4506 

CD4507 

CD4508 

CO4510 

CD4511 

CD4514 

CD4515 

CD4516 

CD451B 

CD4519 

CD4520 

CD4526 

CD452S 

CD4529 

CD4543 

CD4562 

CD4566 

CD4583 

CD4723 

CD4724 

MC 14409 

MC14410 

MC14411 

MC14412 

MC14419 

MC14433 



2.79 
11.95 
2.79 



14.95 
14.95 
14.95 
11.95 




LITRONIX DISPLAY SALE 



DL-4500 
DL-4507 
DL-4520A 
DL-4120A 

ECTtm ARRAYS FOR CLOCKS 




«**,— 


,;■!:» 


POl * n „Y 


_« 


= 


'»«" 


C ?OMWAnD S 


mm 


fW 




1YP 


VAX 


'-"'""■ 


;;;■!■" ;!!:;: 


. 


etfln 


s£ 


s 




" 






" 


» 


■ 


2.49 


DtStSwKw 


«_ 


' 


" 


4.S5 
4.95 
2.49 


DMUMbM 


10 


tc™«w 


is 


■i 




3i 


..,, 


4.9S 


multi man reflector arrays 


0L1MXSMI 


.m 


CC.MM 


?=., ?D.«.TDC Kg-.l 


;■■ 


ii 


n 


1.1 


n 


30 


1.49 


OkO«MIW*Ml 


K 


Cfl HW( 


»5^ JD.g.l 




M 


::"! 




it 


» 


Dv4tcam«u 


U 


ce mpi 


aw tDwtO* H.*l 


s 


« 


HI 


1.7 


70 


30 


Z.49 


DLOSOQIHMI 


n 


ttuw 


?S^6 


,.ll.l 


Hum 


I 


5 


ii) 


1> 


30 


30 


Z.95 


!U 1M.1 lllrtl 


',:> 


C B UM 


;;,.; I. 


Mill 


«,'i 


I 


', 


10 


11 


70 


30 


Z.93 


DL-»30(MI 


■ 


a* <;<■>■ 


;:*j ) 


,.(1! 


„, 


■■'j 


10 


.0 , 3. 


'» 


w 


3.95 



DISCRETE LEDS 



XC556R .200" red 

XC556G .200" greer 

XC556V ,200" yello 

XC556C .200" clear 

XC22R .200" red 
XC22G 



syn 

4/11 
4/11 

4/11 

5/U 
4/tl 



XC22V .200" yellow 4/11 
MV10B .170" red 4/S1 



MV50 .085" red 

XC209R .125" red 

XC209G .125" green 

XC209Y .125" yellow 

XC526R .IBS" red 

XC526G .185" green 

XC526V .185" yellow 

XC526C .185" clear 



6/(1 
5/S1 

4/S1 

4/J1 

5/11 
4/J1 

4/$l 

4/J| 



XC111R .190" red 5/S1 

XC111G .190" green 4/J1 

XC111V .190" yellow 4/tl 

XC1UC .190" clear 4/J1 



efjfc, 



RL-2 . .S.39ea.or3/S1.00 



C.A. 

Type 

MAN 1 
MAN 2 
MAN 3 
MAN 52 
MAN S4 
MAN 71 
MAN 72 
MAN 74 
MAN 82 
MAN 84 
MAN 3620 
MAN 3630 
MAN 3640 
MAN 4610 
MAN 6610 
MAN 6630 
MAN 6640 
MAN 6650 
MAN 6660 
MAN 6710 
MAN 6750 
MAN 6780 
DLO304 
DLO307 
DLGSOO 



Con- 



ion Anod 



Polarity > 

C.A.-red 
5x7 D.M. — red 
C.C.-red 
C. A.— green 
C.C.— green 
C.A.— red 
C.A.— red 
C.C.-red 
C.A. —yellow 
C.C.— yellow 
C. A.— orange 
C. A.— orange ± 1 . 
C.C.— orange 
C.A. —orange 
C.A.— orange-DD . 
C.A. -orange ± 1 
C. C. -orange— DD . 
C.C.— orange ± 1 
C. A.— oran9e 
C.A. — red — DD 
C.C.— red * 1 
C.C.-red 
C.C.— orange 
C.A. —orange 
CX.— green 



DISPLAY LEDS "- c ™ 



n Cathode 



Price 
2.95 
4.95 



Type 

DLG507 

DL704 

DL707 

DL728 

DL741 

DL746 

DL747 

DL750 

DL0847 

DLOB50 

DL33B 

FND358 

F N D 359 

FND503 

FND507 

HDSP-3401 

HDSP-3403 

50B2-7751 

5082-7760 

5082-7300 

5082-7302 

5082-7304 

4N28 

LIT-1 

MOC3010 



Polarity 

C.A. -green .1 

C.C.-red 

C.A.-red 

C.C.— red -i 

C.A.-red .1 

C.A.-red t 1 .1 

C.A.-red .1 

C.C.-red .1 

C.A. -orange .; 

C.C.-orange .! 

C.C.-red 

CX. ± 1 

CX. .: 

CX. (FND5O0) .! 

C.A. (FNOS10) .! 

C.A.-red .1 

C.C.-red 

C.A..R.H.D.— red .< 

C.C.R.H.D.— red .. 

4x7 591, dig. RHD .i 

4x7 59I. dig. LHO J 

Overnge.char.ftl) .1 

PHoto XslstorOpto- 

Photo Xsistor Opto- 

Optlcaily isol.Trlac I 



22.00 

22.00 
19.95 




POTENTIOMETERS 



$2.95 each 



2 Watt & 70°C 


10% 


■g 7/8" Slotted Sho 


ft 


rf Linear 1 aper 




^ Meets Mil-R-94 




RV4NAY SD- 102A 




HV4NAY SD • 502A 


5K 


RV4NAY SD ■ 103A 


10K 


RV4NAY SD - 2S3A 


25K 


RV4NAY SD - 503A 


SOK 


RV4NAY SD - 104A 


100K 


RV4NAY SD - 105A 


lMeg 




LOW PROFILE 
(TIN) SOCKETS 



ii if nr 



SOLDERTAIL (GOLD) 
STANDARD 



$1.35 each 

3/4 Watt Ii* 7Q°C 




B30P- 50ohrr 
B30P-100onrr 
_830P-500ohrr 
B30P-1K 
B30P-2K 



830P- 5K 
B30P-10K 
83OP-20K 
830P-50K 



Part No. 
B30P-100K 
830P-200K 
830P-5O0K 
830P-lMeg 



M9 

h if nr 



SOLDERTAIL 
STANDARD (TIN} 



14 c 



I ST 



16 Dii- 
15 Din ST 
24 pin ST 
28 Pin ST 
36 pin ST 
40 Pin ST 



WIRE WRAP SOCKETS 
(GOLD) LEVEL #3 



8 pin WW 
10 pin WW 
14 pin WW 
16 pin WW 
18 Pin ww 
20pin WW 
22 pin ww 
24 pin ww 
28 pin WW 
36 pin WW 
40 pin WW 



1/4 WATT RESISTOR ASSORTMENTS -5% 



ASST 


1 


Sea. 


10 Ohrr 
27 Ohrr 


12 Ohrr 
33 Ohrr 


15 Ohfl 
39 Ohn 


18 Ohrr 
47 Ohrr 


22 Ohm 
56 Ohm 


50 pes. 


$1.95 


ASST 


2 


5ea. 


68 Ohrr 

180 Ohm 


82 Onm 

220 Ohrr 


1M Orin 

270 Ohn 


120 Ohm 150 Ohm 
330 Ohm 390 Ohm 


50pcs. 


$1.95 


ASST 


3 


5ea. 


470Onrr 
1.2K 


560 Onrr 

1.5K 


580 onn 
1.8K 


820 Ohm 

2.2K 


IK 
2.JK 


50pcs. 


$1.95 


ASST 


4 


5ea. 


3.3K 
S.2K 


3.9K 
10K 


4.7K 
12K 


5.6K 
1SK 


6.8K 
18K 


50 pes. 


$1.95 


ASST 


5 


5ea. 


22K 

56K 


27K 
68K 


33K 
82K 


39K 

100K 


47K 
120K 


50 pes. 


$1.95 


ASST 


6 


5ea. 


J50K 
390K 


180K 
470K 


220K 
560K 


270K 
680K 


330K 
820K 


50 pes. 


$1.95 


ASST 


7 


Sea. 


1M 
2.7M 


1.2M 
3.3M 


1.5M 
3.9M 


1.8M 
4.7M 


2.2M 
5.6M 


50pcs. 


$1.95 



ASST. 8 R 



Includes Resistor Assts. 1-7 (350 pes.) 



$10.95 ea. 



$10.00 Min. Order - U.S. Funds Only 
Calif. Residents Add 6% Sales Tax 
Postage- Add 5%plusS1 Insurance 






J kill'. — 
i^^»iM:i[g 



Spec Sheets - 25tf 

Send 41rf Postage for your 

FREE 1981 JAMECO CATALOG 



PHONE 

ORDERS 

WELCOME 

(415)592-8097 



MAIL ORDER ELECTRONICS - WORLDWIDE 

1355 SHOREWAV ROAD, BELMONT, CA 94002 

PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE 



Part No. 

7045 IP I 

7045EV/KU* 

7106CPL 

7106EV/KU* 

7107CPL 

7107EV/KU* 

7U6CPL 

7117CPL 

7201 ID R 

7205IPG 

7Z05EV/Kit* 

7206CJPE 

7205CEV/Kit* 

7207AIPD 

7207AEV/KH* 

7208IPI 

7209 IPA 

7215 IPG 

7215EV/KU* 

7216AIJI 

721ECIJI 

7216DIPI 

7217IJI 

721SC1JI 

7224 IP L 

7226AIJL 

7226AEV/KU* 

7240IJE 

7242IJA 

7250 IJE 

7ZS0UE 

7555IPA 

7556IPD 

7611BCPA 

7612BCPA 

7621BCPA 

7631CCPE 

7641CCPD 

7642CCPD 

7660CPA 

B069CCQ 

B211CPA 

B212CPA 



Function 

CMOS Precision Timer 
Stopwatch Chip, XTL 
Wt Digit A/D (LCD Drive) 
IC, Circuit Board, Display 
i'/i Digit A/D (LED Drive) 
IC, Circuit Board, Display 
3Vi Digit A/D LCD D Is. HLD. 
3'/; Digit A/D LED Dis. HLD. 
Low Battery Volt Indicator 
CMOS LED Stopwatch/Timer 



Conti 



r Chip, XTL 
lller 



Osdiiato 

Freq. Counter Chip, XTL 
Seven Decade Counter 

4 Func. CMOS Stopwatch CKT 

4 Func. Stopwatch Chip, XTL 
B-Diglt Univ. CounterC.A. 
B-Diglt F re Q. Counter C.A. 
8-Dlglt Freq. Counter C.C. 
4-Dlgit LED UP/Down Counter 
B-Diglt Univ. LED Drive 
LCD 4Vi Digit Up Counter DRI 
B-Diglt Univ. Counter 

5 Function Counter Chip, XTL 
CMOS Bin Prog.Tlmer/Counte 
CMOS DIvlde-by-256 RC Timer 
CMOS BCD Prog. Timer/Count 
CMOS BCD Prog. Timer/Count 
CMOS 555 Timer (8 pin) 
CMOS 556 Timer (14 pin) 
CMOS Op Amp Compar 
CMOS Op Amp Ext. Cn 
CMOS Dual Op Amp Cc 
CMOS Trl Op Amp Con 
CMOS Quad Op Amp C 
CMOS Quad Op Amp C 
Voltage Converter 
50ppm Band-GAP 
Volt Ref/lndlcator 
Volt Ref/lndlcator 

INTERSIL'S EVALUATION KITS 



Price 

14.95 

22.95 
16.95 
34.95 
15.95 
28.95 
IS. 95 
17.95 
2.25 
12.95 
19.95 
5.15 
9.95 
6.50 



13.95 
19.95 
32-00 
26.95 
21.95 
12.95 
10.95 
11.25 
31.95 
74.95 



5M 



1.45 
2.20 

• 2.25 



5MV 2.95 

5MV 3.95 

10MV 5.35 

10MV 7.50 

10MV 7.50 

2.95 

It Ref. Diode 2.50 

2.50 

2.50 



74C00 
74C02 
74C04 
74C08 
74C10 
74C14 
74C2Q 
74C30 
74C42 
74C48 
74C73 
74C74 
74CBS 
74CS6 
74CE9 
74C90 
74C93 
74C95 



.39 
.39 


74C 




74C195 
74C221 


.39 






74C240 


.39 


74C106 


.75 


74C244 


.39 


74C107 


1.B9 


74C373 


.75 


74C151 


2.95 


74C374 


.39 


74C154 


3.95 


74CM1 


.39 


74C157 


2.25 


74C903 


1.39 


74C160 


1.69 


74C911 


1.95 


74C161 


1.60 


74C912 


.79 


74C162 


1.49 


74C915 


.79 


74C163 


1.69 


74C917 


1.95 


74C164 


1.59 


74C922 


.99 


74C173 


1.39 


74C923 


6.95 


74C174 


1.39 


74C925 


1.29 


74C175 


1.39 


74C926 


1.29 


74C192 


1.69 


B0C95 


1.59 


74C193 


1.69 


80C97 



LH0OO2CN 

LM10CLH 

LMUCLH 

LH0070-OH 

TL07JCP 

TL072CP 

TL074CN 

LHQ082CD 

TL082CP 

TL084CN 

LH0094CD 

LM300H 

LM301CN 

LM302H 

LM304H 

LM30SH 

LM307CN 

LM308CN 

LM309H 

LM309K 

LM310CN 

LM311H 

LM312H 

LM317MP 

LM317T 

LM317K 

LM318CN 

LM319N 

LM320K-5 

LM320K-12 

LM320K-15 

LM320T-5 

LM320T-12 

LM320T-15 

LM323K-5 

LM324N 

LM329D2 

LM331N 

LM334Z 

LM33SZ 

LM3362 

LM337T 

LM337MP 

LM338K 

LM339N 

LM340K-5 

LM340K-12 

LM340K-15 



LINEAR 



LM340T-5 

LM340T-12 

LM340T-15 

LM341P-5 

LM341P-12 

LM341P-15 

LM342P-5 

LM342P-12 

LM342P-15 

LM34BN 

LM3S0K 

LF351N 

LF353N 

LF355N 

LF356N 

LM358N 

LM359N 

LM370N 

LM373N 

LM377N 

LM3B0N 

LM3B1N 

LM3B2N 

LM384N 

LM3B6N-3 

LM3B7N 

LM389N 

LM392N 

LF39BN 

LM399H 

TL494CN 

TL496CP 

NE510A 

NE529A 

NE531H 

NE536H 

NES40H 

NES44N 

NE550A 

NE555V 

LM556N 

NE564N 

LM565N 

LM566CN 

LM567V 



CAPACITOR CORNER 

5 VOLT CERAMIC DISC CAPACITORS 



NE570N 4.S 

LM702H .1 

LM703CN .1 

LM709N .; 

LM710N .: 

LM7IIN .; 

LM723N .1 

LM733N 1.1 

LM739N 1.. 

LM741CN .; 
MC1741SCG 3.1 
LM747N 

LM74BN .! 

LM1014N 2.: 

LM1310N l.i 

LM1458CN .: 

LM14B8N I.; 

LM14B9N 1.; 

LM1496N U 

LM1556V 1.1 

LM1B0ON 2.! 

LM1877N-9 3.1 

LM1889N 3.1 

LM1896N 1. 

LM2002T l.i 

LM2877P 2.1 

LM2B7BP 2.1 

LM2B96P-1 2.; 

LM3189N 2.! 

LM3900N ,i 

LM3905CN 1.; 

LM3909N 1. 

LM3914N 3. 

LM3915N 3. 

LM3916N 3. 

RC4136N 1.; 

RC4151NB 3. 

RC4194TK 5. 

RC4195TK 5. 

KB442B 4. 

KB4429 5.' 

LM45O0A 3.i 

ICLB03SB 4.! 

LM13060N I.; 

LM13600N 1.' 

7513BN 1.' 

75450N .1 
7545 l'CIM 



22P1 
47PI 
100 pf 
220 pf 

470 pi 



1-9 10-99 100* 



1-9 10-99 100- 

.OOlMF 

.004 Iti F 

.OlMF 

.02:!|i f 

,017uF 

.IMF 
100 VOLT MYLAR FILM CAPACITORS 
QOlmf .12 .10 .07 I .022mf .13 .11 

0022mf .12 .10 .07 .Q47mf .21 .17 

.0047m 1 



,01rr 



.12 .10 



.07 



.22rr 



.33 



+20% DIPPED TANTALUMS (Solid) CAPACITORS 



.1/35V 
• 15/35V 

.22/35V 
.33/35V 
.47/35V 
.68/35V 
1.0/35V 



1.S/3SV 

2.2 /35 V 
3.3/2SV 
4.7/25V 
6.8/25V 
15/2SV 
22/6V 



MINI. ALUMINUM ELECTROLYTIC CAP AC ITORS 



.47/5QV 

1.0/50V 

3.3/50V 

4.7/25V 

10/2SV 

10/S0V 

22/25V 

22/50V 

47/35V 

47/5 0v 

100/25 v 

100 /S0V 

220/25V 

220/SOV 

470/25V 

1000/16V 

2200/16V 



.28 .24 .22 



-47/2SV 

.47/50V 

1.0/16V 

IjORSV 

1.0/50V 

4.7/16V 

■i. ,", 2S \ ' 

4. 7/50 V 

10/16V 

10/25 V 

10/50V 

47/50 V 

100/16V 

1O0/25V 

100/50V 

220/16V 

470/25V 



.35 .31 .27 



368 BYTE February 1981 



Circle 314 on inquiry card. 



/H 



SSL.** Clock Modules 



-j — 






12VDC 

AUTOMOTIVE/ 

INSTRUMENT 

CLOCK 

APPLICATIONS: 

• In-dash autodock; 

• Aft 



HV c 



to/ 



:raft-n 



• 12VDCoper. Instru. 

• Portable/battery 
powered insuumnis. 

Features;Bright 0.3"green display- Internal crystal time- 
base. ± 0.5 sec ./day accur.AuiO. display brightnesscontrol 
logic. Display color filterable to blue, blue-green, green & 
yellow. Complete-just add switches and lens. 

MA1003 Module $16.95 



MA1023. 7" Low Cost Digital LED Clock Module 8.95 

MAI 026 .7" Dig. LED Alarm Clock/Thermometer 18.95 

MA5036 ,3"LowCost Digital LED Clock/Timer 6.95 

MA1002 .5"LED Display Dig. Clock & Xformer 9.95 




2 National Semiconductor 

RAM SALE 



MM5290N-4 (mk41i6/upd416) . . $4.95 each 

16K DYNAMIC RAM (250NS) 

(B EACH S39-95) (100 EACH S450.00/lot) 

MM5290J-2 IMK4H6/UPD416) . . $6.95 each 

16K DYNAMIC RAM (150NS) 

(8 EACH S49.95) (100 EACH S550.00/lot) 

MM5298J-3A $3.25 each 

8K DYNAMIC RAM (LOW HALF OF MM 5290 J) 200 NS 
(8 EACH S23.95) (100 E AC H $250. OO/lo t) 

MM2114-3 $5.95 each 

4K STATIC RAM (300NS) 

(8 EACH S43.95) (100 EACH S450.00/lot) 

MM21 14L-3 $6.25 each 

4K STATIC RAM (LOW POWER 300NS) 
(8 EACH S44.95) (100 EACH S475.00/lot) 

EPROM Erasing Lamp 




• Erases 2708, 2716, T702A, 5203Q, 5204Q, etc. 

• Erases up to 4 chips within 20 minutes. 

• Maintains constant exposure distance of one inch. 

• Special conductive foam liner eliminates static build-up. 

• Built-in safety lock to prevent UV exposure. 

• Compact - only 7-5/8" x 2-7/8" x 2" 

• Complete with holding tray for 4 chips. 

UVS-11E $79.95 




Jumbo 6-Digit Clock Kit 

• Four .630"ht. and two .300"ht. 
common anode displays 

• Uses MM5314 clock chip 

• Switches for hours, minutes and hold functions 

• Hours easily viewable to 30 feet 

• Simulated walnut case 

• 115VAC operation 

■ 12 or 24 hour operation 

• Includes all components, case and wall transformer 



► Size: 6?i" x 3-1/8" 



i 1ST 



JE747 $29.95 



6-Digit Clock Kit 




• Bright .300 hi. comm. call 

• Uses MM5314 clock chip 
•Swiiches for hours, mrnun 

and hold modes 

• Hrs. easily viewable lo 20 f 
•Simulated walnui case 



JE701 $19.95 



Regulated PowerSupply 



Uses LM309K. Heat sink 
provided. PC board con- ■— 
struction. Provides a solid 
1 amp @ 5 volts. Can supply up 
to ±5V. t9V and ±12V with 
JE205 Adapter. Includes compo- 
nents, hardware and instructions. 
Size: 3H" x 5" x 2"H 



JE200 $14.95 





ADAPTER BOARD 
-Adapts to JE200- 
±5V,±9Vand±12V 



DC/DC converter with +5V input. Toriodal hi- 
speed switching XFMR. Short circuit protection. 
PC board construction. Piggy-back to JE 200 
board. Size: 3'/i" x 2" x 9/1B"H 



\JE205 



$12.95 



MICROPROCESSOR COMPONENTS 



8 080 A/8080 A SUPPORT DEVICES - 

INS8W0A CPU 

DPS212 B-BII Inout/Outpul 

DP82H Priority Interrupt Control 

DPM16 Bi-Dlrectlonai Bui Driver 

DPSH4 , Clock Generator/Driver 

OP82M Bui Driver 

DPB22B System Controller/Bui Driver 

DPB2JB System Controller 

INS8243 I/O Expanoer ior4a Series 

INS82S0 Asynchronous Comm. Element 

OP«2Sl Prog. Comm. I/O (USART) 

DPB253 Prog. Interval Timer 

OP825S Prog. Peripheral I/O (PPI1 

DPB257 Prog. DMA Control 

DPBZS9 Prog. Interrupt Control 

DPB275 Prog. CRT Controller 

DPS279 Prog. Keyooaro/Olsplay Interlace 

DPB3M Octal Bus Receiver 

OP8J03 System Timing Element 

DPB3M B-Blt Bi-OiTectional Receiver 

DPBJQ7 B-Bil Bi-Dlrectlonai Receiver 

OPS308 B-Blt Bl-Oirectlonai Receiver 

6800/6800 SUPPORT DEVICES — 

MC6B00 MPU 

MC6803CP MPU with Clock and RAM 

MC&aiOAPJ l?BxS Static RAM 

MC6BZ1 Peripheral Inter. Adapt (MCGB20) 



1023*S-Blt ROM (MC6BAJ0B) 

Synchronous Serial Oils ArJanler 
O-MDdDs DI9lt a i WODEM 
2:00 tit s Moaulator 
QuaOJ-SUte Bus. Trans. (MCBT2S) 

MICROPROCESSOR CHIPS 



MC6B50 

MC6W 
MC6KJ 
MC6UGA 



2B0 (76i 

2BDA l'io-1) CPU (MKMBDrg 

CDPIB02 CPU 

»» MPU 

IDMWHADC CPU-* Bit She. 

MCS650J MPU w/ciuck I 

INSB035N-t MPU-B Bit (6M 

INS8039N 6 CPU— SJI. Chip 

40N-* C,-u (256 Bytes 

JON Cpu-M Byles 



MPU— 16-Bit 

-SHIFT REGISTERS- 



MMSOir 1024-E 

MM 5016 H 500/51 

MMSOMN Octal 

MMS03SN Octal 

!SMv(HWA) 10M-B 



-DATA ACQUISITION- 



LM3MAH 






DATA ACQUISITION (CONTINUED) 

ADCMMCCN 8 Bit A/D Converter [B-Ch. Multi.) 

ADCM17CCN 

DAC1KKJLCN 

DAC1C08LCN 

DAC1020I.CN 

DAC10<2LCN 



DAC12J2LCN 
C04W1N 



I It A/D Convener (16-Ch.Multl.) 

Bit D/AConv. Micro. Comp. (0.05%) 

BilD/A Conv. Micro. Comp. (0.«rV.) 

BltD/A Converter (0.05V, Lin.) 

Bit D/A Converter (fl.OT* Lin.) 

BltD/A Converter to.wv. Lin.) 



JO :4k I Dynar 
256-4 static 
IQMxl Static 



16K Dynar 
4096x1 Fast 
256x4 Statl 



MM5K1 

MM5M2 

MM52*0 ; -)l07 

MM52«j.!(.H6l 

MM529BJ-3A I 

J4B9 

UPD414/MK4027 > 

TMS4044.4SNL 

TMS40-15 



1Dyn.200ns(iower 



-PROMS/EPROMS- 



:I<9532)TI 32K Epl 



B2S23I74S1BB) 
S2S115 

Si'SuJtMSIial 



NMOS READ ONLY MEMORIES" 

MCME6710P 113x9*7 ASCII ShiilEU w/Greek 

MCM66»0P 12Sx9x7 Math SymDol £ Pictures 

MCM66750P 128x9x7 Alpha. Control Char. Gen. 

MICROPROCESSOR MANUAL.S- 



DS0025CN 
DSCC26CN 
INS1771N-1 

MMSB167N 
MM56174N 
COP402N 

COP402MN 

COP470N 



- SPECIAL FUNCTION - 



ect LED Dm 
t LED Drive. 



-TELEPHONE/KEYBOARD CHIPS" 



MD01S5-S 

J1C972 
74C923 

MM511MN 
MM57499N 



DESIGNERS' SERIES 
Blank Desk-Top Electronic Enclosures 

• High strength epoxy niDld ed 
eno pieces in modi a bio wn 
finish. 

• Sliding rear/bottom panel for 
service and component ac- 
cessibility. 

• Top/bottom panels. D8D thk 
alum. Alodine type 12(10 
finish (gold tint color) for 
best paint adhesion after 
modification. 

• Vented top and bottom 
panels for cooling efficiency. 

" Rigid construction provides 
unlimited applications. 




CONSTRUCTION: 

The "DTE" Blank Desk Top Electronic Enclosuresare designed to blend and complement 

today's modern computer equipment and can be used in both industrial and home. The 
end pieces are precision molded with an internal slot (all around) to accept both top and 
bottom panels. The panelsare then fastened to W thick tabs inside the end piecesto 
provide maximum rigidity to the enclosure. For ease of equipment servicing, the rear/ 
bottom panel slides back on slotted tracks while the rest of the enclosure remains in- 
tact. Different panel widths may be used while maintaining a common profile outline. 
The molded end pieces can also be painted to match any panel color scheme. 




Enclosure 
Model No. 


Panel 
Width 


PRICE 


DTE-8 


8.00" 


$29.95 


DTE-11 


10.65" 


$32.95 


DTE-14 


14.00" 


$34.95 



S10.00 Min. Order - U.S. Funds Only 
Calif. Residents Add 6% Sales Tax 
Postage— Add 5%plusS1 Insurance 



Spec Sheets - 25* 

Send 414 Postage for your 

FREE 1981 JAMECO CATALOG 




JaiiiiiK/m); 
EE3EEI3IB 



PHONE 

ORDERS 

WELCOME 

(41S) 592-8097 



MAIL ORDER ELECTRONICS - WORLDWIDE 

1355 SHOREWAY ROAD, BELMONT, CA 94002 
PRICES SUBJECT TO CHANGE 



JOYSTICKS 





\ JvC-40 



JS-5K 5K Linear Taper Pots S5.25 

JS-100K 100K Linear Taper Pots S4.95 

JVC-40 40K (2) Video Controller in case . . . S5.95 



AC and DC Wall Transformers 




Part No 



nput 



Output 



Price 



AC 250 117V/60Hz 12 VAC 250mA S3. 95 

AC 500 117V/60HZ 12 VAC 500mA S4.95 

AC1000 117V/60Hz 12 VAC 1 amp S5.95 

DV9200 117V/60Hz 9 VDC 200mA S3.25 

DC 900 120V/60Hz 9 VDC 500mA S3.95 



CONNECTORS 



DB25P D-Subminiature Plug S2.95 

DB25S D-Subminiature Socket S3.50 

DB51226 CoverforDB25P/S SI. 75 

22/44SE P.C. Edge (22/44 Pin) S2.95 

UG88/ U BNC Plug S1.79 

UG89/U BNC Jack S3.79 

UG175/U UHF Adapter S .49 

S0239 UHF Panel Recp SI. 29 

PL258 UHF Adapter S1.60 

PL259 UHF Plug . SI. 60 

UG260/U BNC Plug SI. 79 

UG1Q34/U BNC Bulkhead Recp SI. 29 

TRS-80 
16K Conversion Kit 

Expand your 4 K TRS-80 System to 16K. 
Kit comes complete with: 

*8 ea. MM5290 (UPD416/4116) 16K Dyn. Rams (*NS) 

w Documentation for Conversion 

TRS-16K2 -150NS $49.95 

TRS-16K4 -250NS $39.95 

JE610 ASCII 
Encoded Keyboard Kit 

\ 

The JE610 ASCII Keyboard Kit can be Interfaced into 
most any computer system. The kit comes complete 
with an industrial grade keyboard switch assembly 
(62-keysl, IC's, sockets, connector, electronic compo- 
nents and a double-sided printed wiring board. The 
keyboard assembly requires t5V <? 150mA and -12V 
(s> 10 mA for operation. Features: 60 keys generate the 
126 characters, upper and lower case ASCII set. Fully 
buffered. Two user-define keys provided for Custom 
applications. Caps lock for uppercase-only alpha charac- 
ters. Utilizes a 2376 (40-pin) encoder read-only memory 
chip. Outputs directly compatible with TTL/DTL or 
MOS logic arrays. Easy interfacing with a 16-pin dip or 
18-pin edge connector. Size: 3H"H x 14'/,"W x B',-L"D 

JE610/DTE-AK (as Pictured apove). . .$124.95 

Jcem l/;t 62- Key Keyboard, Pc Board, A —„,,_ 
EblU Kit a Components (no case). ... .$ 79.95 

K62 62-Key Keyboard (Keyboard only) . . .$ 34.95 

DTE-AK (case only ^3¥."HxU"Wx8WD)$ 49.95 

JE600 
Hexadecimal Encoder Kit 




FULL 8-BIT 
LATCHED OUTPUT 
19-KEY KEYBOARD 



The JE600 Encoder Keyboard Kit pro\, 
hexadecimal digits produced from seqL 
to allow direct programming for 8b 
or S-bit memory circuits. Three additional keys are pro- 
vided for user operations with one having a bistable 
output available. The outputs are latched and monitored 
with 9 LED readouts. Also included is a key entry strobe. 
Features: Full 8-bit latched output for microprocessor 
uso. Three use r-define keys with one being bistable 
operation. De bounce circuit provided for all 19 keys. 
9 LED readouts to verify entries. Easy interfacing with 
standard 16-pin IC connector. Only +5VDC required 
for operation. Size: 3J4"H x Sli"W x Se'."D 

JE600/DTE-HK (as pictured above) . . . .$99.95 



JE600 Kit pc sea 

K19 19-KeyKeyboa. 
DTE-HK (caseonl> 



My).... $14.95 

vxs*.»d) $44.95 . 



Circle 314 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 369 



7400 



SN7400N 
SN7401N 
SN7402N 
SN7403N 
SN7404N 
SN7405N 
SN7406N 
SN7407N 
SN7408N 
SN7409N 
SN7410N 
SN7411N 
SN7.112N 
SN7413N 
SN7414N 
SN7416N 
SN7417N 
SN7420N 
SN7421N 
SN7422N 
SN7423N 
SN7425N 
SN7426N 
SN7427N 
SN7.129N 
SN7430N 
SN7432N 
SN7437N 
SN7438N 
SN7439N 
SN7440N 
SN7441N 



SN7 444N 
SN7445N 
SN7446N 
SN7447N 
SN7.I48N 
SN7450N 
SN74 5IN 
SN7453N 
SN7454N 
SN7459N 
SN7<160N 
SN7470N 
SN7472N 
SN7473N 
SN7474N 
SN7475N 
SN7'I76N 
SN7479N 
SN7480N 
SN7481N 
SN7482N 
SN7483N 
SN7485N 
SN7486N 
SN7-189N 
SN7490N 
SN7491N 
SN7492N 
SN7493N 
SN7494N 
SN7495N 
SN7496N 
SN7497N 
00N 



S N 7 ■ 
SN7. 

SN7 ■; 
SN71 

SN74 
S N 7 ■: 



7N 



SN7.1123N 


59 


74LS00N 


SN74125N 


39 


74LSD1N 


SN7.1126N 


44 


74LS02N 


SN74126N 


59 


74LS03N 


SN74132N 


69 


74LS04N 


SN74136N 


95 


74LS05N 


SN74139N 


95 


74LSOBN 


SN74141N 


69 


74LS09N 


SN74142N 


295 


74LS10N 


SN74143N 


295 


74LS11N 


SN74104N 


2 95 


74LS12N 


SN74145N 


62 


74LS13N 


SN74147N 


1 95 


74LS14N 


SN74148N 


1 20 


74LS15N 


SN74150N 


99 


74LS20N 


SN74151N 


67 


74LS21N 


SN74152N 


67 


74LS22N 


SN74153N 


67 


74LS26N 


SN7.11S4N 


1 19 


74LS27N 


SN74155N 


82 


74LS2BN 


SN74156N 


6 9 


74LS30N 


SN74157N 


69 


74LS32N 


SN74158N 


1 65 


74LS37N 


SN74160N 


95 


74LS3BN 


SN74161N 


95 


74LS40N 


SN74162N 


ag 


74LS42N 


SN74163N 


6 1 


74LS47N 


SN74164N 


97 


74LS4BN 


SN74165N 


97 


74LS51N 


SN74166N 


1.20 


74LS54N 


SN74167N 


1 95 


74LS55N 


SN74170N 


1 69 


74LS73N 


SN74172N 


595 


74LS74N 


SN74173N 


79 


74LS75N 


SN74174N 


69 


74LS76N 


SN74175N 


89 


74LS78N 


SN74176N 


85 


74LS83AN 


SN74177N 


85 


74LSB5N 


SN74179N 


1.80 


74LS86N 


SN741B0N 


75 


74LS90N 


SN741B1N 


1 75 


74LS92N 


SN74182N 


75 


74LS93N 


SN74 1B.IN 


1.95 


74LS95N 


SN74IB5N 


1.95 


74LS96N 


SN74186N 


9 95 


74LS107N 


SN7418BM 


3.90 


74LS109N 


SN74190N 


1.15 


74LS112N 


SN74191N 


1 15 


74LS113N 


SN74192N 


.85 


74LS114N 


SN74193N 


B '- 


74LS122N 


SN74194N 


a 5 


74LS123N 


SN74195N 


BS 


74LS124N 


SN74196N 


B 5 


74LSI25N 


SN74197N 


85 


74LS126N 


SN74196N 


1 39 


74LS132N 


SN74199N 


139 


74LS136N 


SN74221N 


1 39 


74LS138N 


SN74251N 


95 


74LSI39N 


SN74273N 


105 


74LS145N 


SN74279N 


89 


74LS14BN 


SN742B3N 


2 15 


74LS151N 


SN742B4N 


390 


74LS153N 


SN74285N 


3 90 


74LS154N 


SN74290M 


1 25 


74LS155N 


SN74298N 


95 


74LS156N 


SN74365N 


GB 


7<1LS157N 


SN74366N 


6B 


74LS15BN 


SN74367N 


,79 


74LS160N 


SN7436BN 


.79 


74LS161N 


SN74390N 


1 90 


74LS162N 


SN74393N 


1 go 


74LS1G3N 


SN74490N 


1 90 





CMOS 



CD4000 
CD4001 
CD40O2 
C04006 
CD4007 
C0400B 
C04009 
CD40I0 
CD4011 
CD4012 
CD1013 
CD4014 
CD4015 
C04016 
CD4017 
CD401B 
CD4019 
C04020 
C04021 
CD4022 
CD4023 
CO<!024 
CD4025 
CD4027 
CD402B 
C04029 
CD4030 
C04031 
CD4032 
CD4034 
CD.1035 
CD4037 
CD4040 
CD4041 
CD4042 
CD4043 
CD4044 
CD4046 
CD4047 
CP4048 
C04049 
CD4050 
CD. 1051 
CD-1052 
CD. 1053 
CO4055 
C04056 
CD4059 
CD4060 
CD4066 
CD4069 
CO4070 
CD4071 
CD4072 
CD4073 
CD4075 
CD4076 
CD40 7 7 
C0407B 
CD40B1 
CD4082 
CD40B5 
C04089 



3 25 
2 15 
3.25 



1 to 

395 
295 



CD4093 
CD4094 
CD409B 
C04099 



MC14415 

MC14419 

CD4501 

CD4502 

CD4503 

CO4505 

CD4506 

CD4507 

CD4506 

CD4510 

CD4511 

CD4512 

C04515 

C04516 

CD4518 

CD4520 

C04555 

C04556 

CD4566 

74C00 

74C02 

74C04 

74C0B 

74C10 

7-1C14 

74C20 

74C30 

74C32 

74C42 

74C4B 

7JC73 

74C74 

74C85 

74C89 

7-1C30 

74C93 

7.1C95 

74C107 

7aCl51 

74C154 

74C157 

74C160 

74C161 

74C163 

74C164 

74C173 

74C174 

74C175 

74C193 

74CI93 

74C195 

74C922 

74C923 

MM80C95 

MM80C97 



2 95 
2 49 

2 25 
12 95 
1 2 95 
1295 
12.95 

8 95 



74LS00 



74LS164N 
74LS165N 
74LS166N 
74LS168N 
74LS169N 
74LS170N 
74LS173N 
74LS174N 
74LS175N 
74LS1B1N 
74LS190N 
74LS191N 
74LS192N 
74LS193N 
74LS194N 
74LS195N 
74LS196M 
74LS197M 
74LS221N 
74LS240N 
74LS241N 




74LS245N 


4.95 


74LS247N 


1.10 


74LS248N 


1 10 


74LS249N 


1 69 


74LS251N 


1 79 


74LS253N 


9B 


74LS257N 


98 


74LS258N 


as 


74LS259N 


2 95 


74LS260N 


.69 


74LS261N 


249 


74LS266N 


59 


74LS273N 


1 75 


74LS275N 


A 40 


74LS279M 


59 


74LS283N 


1,10 


74LS290N 


1.29 


74LS293N 


1.95 


74LS295N 


1.10 


74LS29BN 


1.29 


74LS324N 


1.75 


74LS347N 


1 95 


74LS348N 


1.95 


74LS352N 


1 65 


74LS353N 


r.65 


74LS363N 


1 49 


74LS365N 


.99 


74LS366N 


.99 


74LS367N 


.73 


74LS368N 


.7 3 


74LS373N 


2.75 


74LS374N 


2.75 


74LS375N 


.69 


74LS377N 


1 95 


74LS3B5N 


1.95 


74LS3B6N 


65 


74LS390N 


1 95 


74LS393N 


1.95 


74LS395M 


1.70 


74LS399M 


2.95 


74LS424N 


2 95 


74LS66BN 


1.75 


74LS670N 


2 29 


81LE95N 


1.99 


81LE96N 


1.99 


81LS97N 


1.99 


81LS98N 


1 99 



LINEAR 



SH05 

BM06 

BMG 

M105H 

M10BAH 

M300H 

M301CN/M 

M304H 

M305H 

M306H 

M307CN/H 

M30BCN/H 

M309K 

M310CN 

lD/CN/1 

M312H 

M317T 

M318CN/H 
9N/H 

M320K-XX" 

M320T-XX- 

M320H-XX* 

M323X 

M324N 

M339N 

M340K-XX' 

M340T-XX- 

M340H-XX- 

M344H 

M34BN 

M35BCN 

M360N 

M372N 

M376N 

M377N 

M380CN/N 

M3B1N 

M3B3T 

M386N ■ 

M387N 

M390N 
NE531V/T 
NE5 55V 
NE556M 
NE561T 
NE5S2B 
NE565N/H 
NE566H/V 
NE567V/H 
NE592N 

M702H 

M709N/H 

M710N/H 

.M7 11N/H 

M715N 

M723N/H 

M733N/H 

M739N 



M747N/H 

748N/H 

M760CN 

M131DN 



LMI414N 1 

LM1456CN/N 

MC14B6N 1 

MC14B9N 

LM1496N 

LM1556N 1 

LM1600N 

LM1B20N 

LM1850N 

LM'BB9N : 

LM21 1 IN 

LM2900N 

LM2901M 

LM2917N 

CA3013T 

CA3018T 

CA3021T 

CA3023T 

CA3035T 

CA3039T 

CA3046T 

LM3053N 

CA3059N 

CA3060N 

CA3062N 

LM3065N 

CA30BON 

CA30B1N 

CA30B2N 

CA30B3N 

CA30B6N 

CA3089N 

CA3096N 

CA3097N 

CA3130T 

CA3140T 

CA3146N 

CA3160T 

CA3190M 

CA3401N 

MC3423N 

MC3460N 

SG3524N 

CA3600M 

LM3900N 

LM3905M 

LM3909N 

HC4131N 

HC4136N 

HC4151N 

RC4ig4 

RC4195 

ULN2001 

ULN2003 

SN75450N 

SN75451N 

SN75452N 

SN75453N 

SN75454N 

SN75491N 

SN75492N 

SN75493N 

SN75494N 



249 
2 49 
2 49 



RETAILSTORESOPEN MON-SAT 
STORE 1310 "B"E. Edlnger STORE 674 El Camino Real 
#1 Santa Ana, CA 92705 #2 Tustin, CA 92680 

Showrooms, Retail, Warehouse Specializing in Systems 



AEMVNCED 

COMPUTER 
PRODUCTS 



Superior Color, Music, Sound & Graphics - 
& a Powerful Extended Basic- All Built-in. 
Now! Special TV. 
Adapter lets you use 
your existing T.V. set 
as a computer display. 

$499.00 d 

Console only. 




BECKMAIM 

Digital Multimeters 

~ MODELS TECH WO AND TECH 110 

,- v.0 1 * 1 

fcS nO ChM(olMo«i5-I>tUCM]10nassiUWrt 
C- jA"^ lealu'cs 7 funcnuris J9 (inots piu»0l5% V« 



% 



^\ VC-20 1 Vinyl Cnrry.ng Caso. 

ff£-\ DC-202 DoIliib Ca"ying Cast. 

'Pb'-V HV-211 Hifjn VoliuOi* Pi ubo 

\ J\ fip -"' RP p '°lJ» 

_lrt\ Ct-231 ACCuifBUlClB-ni).... 

■aaV?,' ni .Jdl fli.li,.A Tncl I o.i/l KiF 



4& 



ff|" MUSIC MACHINE 9® 

mtm with g voices; 



• rJEWU^slatmSlati 



AY3 8910s ID vi 
oentraiajby meALFBoanl • 



• APPi£i« nanwiiO 



*ss:h«eit c»ko iEirt-3 



$129.95 



FLOPPY DISK DRIVES 



MR B5t-5W, 40 tracks . 

Shuga-I SA4O0-5 1 ." 35 track: 

Shugail BOO/BOiR B" 

Siemens Shugart Compatible 

FDD-120-BD 
PERSCI MDdel 277 Duol 
WANGO.'SIEMENS 5'*" Dnve 
MPI B52 5'-" Dual, ... 
WANGO/SIEMENS 282 Dual 
WANGO/SIEMENS B2 



. 279 00 
. 295 00 
..475 00 

42g00 
1 195.00 
29000 
348.00 
.395 00 
. 290 00 



ESCCONTINENT&L SPECIALTIES 
Mcdel LH-3 40-cfianiiel Logic Homloi . . 58500 
Model LM-1 Logic Monitor ,.. 6000 

MudelLM-Z Logic Monitor 14700 

MAX-IOQ 100 MHZ Portable freQuency Counter 



Model LP-I Digital Logic Piobe 

Model LP-2 Economy Logic Piodc 

Model LP-3 High Speed Logic Probe 

Model LFK-I Logic Probe Kit 

Model LTC-l.lTH Logical Analysis Kits 220/250 



4900 
5000 
2800 
77 00 
2195 




Proto Clips 



14-Pin Clip 

16-PmCliD PC'16 

24-PinCHp PC-24 

4Q-Pm Clin PC-40 



Proto Boards 



1695 PB-104.... 

10.00 PB-L'03 ... 

21 00 PH-203A.. 

25 00 PS-203A-K 
43 00 



SEMICONDUCTORS 

^rSPEAK!^ 
DIGITALKER 

Speech Synthesis System 

The DIGITALKER is a speech synthesis sysiem 
consisting ol multiple N-channei mOS inle- 

chip ISPC) and speech ROM and when used 



• Compieleiy independent system, r 

requiring a processor controller 

• Designed to be easily interlaced I 

popular microprocessors 

• 256 possible addressable express 

• Mate.- lemale. and children's voice: 

speech 



dynamic ROMs 

• TTL compatible 

• MICROBUS" - compalib 



DIGITALKER'" DTI 000. S»lf contained 
board that -with just a npaakar end a 
pow or supply -can rsKIa off any desirad 
combination of 144 word.. $4B5.0O 

DIGITALKER'" DTtOSO.Chlpaa tf or building 
Dlgltalker Inloyour own evaluation design. 



OT National 

£A Semlconductof 



$79.00 



i Apple II. 16K 
or Apple II. Plus $990 

J DISK SYSTEM SPECIAL 

Apple II Plus W/48K Supermod Video Modulator 

Disk II w/Controller Integer Based ROM Card. 

Reg. S2.22O.O0, ACP Price S1819.00 SAVE S401 .00 



Hi-Speed Serial I 
Centronics Punter I/O 
Applesoft II F urn ware 
Apple Clock 
tnlrol X-10 Syslem 
Intrd X-10 Controller 
All Music Syninesirer 
t6 Ch Analog Input 
2 Ch Analog Output 
1 3- Key Keypad 
Visi-Calc 



S18900 
18000 
18900 
?69 
17995 
26995 
25995 
24995 
164 95 
11995 
12500 



DS65 Digi-Seciw 
Apple Graphics Tablet 
DC Hayes Modem II 

fty*. II vtCrjfii'oi-* & Dos 3 3 

Disk ll 



Pascal Lang System 
Parallel Punier Card 
Communications Card 
Business Sattwaie Pkg 
Corvus 10 Megabyte Drive 

462500 



S349 00 
6750(1 
34995 

59500 

45900 
450 00 
16500 
18900 
62500 



integer ROM CaiQ 

PrOloCard 

M& H Modular 

Sanyo Cassette 

16k Upgrade Kit 

Desktop Plan 

8 Floppy Controller 

Heur.st«:s SpeecniaD 

FtomptuS + 

Superiaiker 

Cashier 



S1B900 
2i95 
2S95 
54 95 

5495 
98 .V 
350 j,' 
17900 
16900 
27900 
25000 



NEW APPLE PRODUCTS 



i "APPLE FAN"- Cures thermal pmUems (rom owrcrowried 
nvictiics ocsigneo jon leany lor Apple S4995 

i "BITS" - Np« 8 0k24 Viaerj Board for Apple Compieleiy 
coniMtiWe wiw Pascal S32995 

> "BAR WAND" Hentetl PacKaid H.EDS-3000 Bar Cede 

mterlxed tc ,',(.:■:■ S 1 99 CO 

> "SEC APPLE A/0' - 3 Channel A'P Interlace compieleiy 

asseinlilrjO arid tested S99 50 

i 'VISTA APPLE BO TRACK DISK DRIVE" Floppy ArKi-onirji 



• DOS 3 3 U 



: ?3 in 



! storage in ll 



S6500 
,S550QG 



Apple 5v«- 80 IPI 




S459C0 


APPLE FCRTRArT 




S175 00 


APPLE CRYPTEXrior 


umwtaM 


S44900 


LVUXAPPLE MODEM 


new madeoi lardnect 


S2B9 00 


DZ:.A2 ■ Graptiw Inteit 


ce Caid by Base 2 


SIS99S 



» 8" Oisk Dims lorAPpie Controller. D0S.T*o B' 

dnves caOneiard cable S145000 

■ -MICROMODEM" - DC. Hayes . S31995 

* "OIGlSECTOfl- Converts video input to Hi-Res 

sraplws. ... S34995 

• VlSiCatKeyparh NunOeric keypad *ith -nvc ESC. 

- and - keys lor VrsiCaic compa tibilily S16900 



• Mcontain Harflwaie Music Bo3"d.te 

16ctunnels 

■ Controller 1 1 Revision KiL 20°'u Overall processing 

disk ruiidlirg AOditioiul ere decking. 

Improved manual Vend* Hie expanded S14500 

• Pascal Revision Kit Adds executive and 

chaining ap»t)ilit>es 10 Pascal envi/onmenl S6500 

• Manila in Hardwaie Eaparsion oisssis 9 noie siols 

laApok! Haid*are cr sottwaie selectable. 

includes powei supply .... Avail Soon 

• Smart Term Apple HO ( ?4 VCeoCaiO . . Avail Soon 

• S>mlei X-10 Avail Sew 

• Apple Silenlyoe WithAppc Iniellgent interlace 

Card S54900 

• NEW! Catironia CwnsUler Systerrs APPLE Clock. 

Only S12495 

• NEW Z-BO Stftarfl lor APPLE CPM 22 & M BASIC 

50 ... S32500 

• NEW Ciilorna MCfLumlucts Keypadtrx 

APPLE SI7500 



NEW APPLE SOFTWARE 



1 CmSSTRIKE ~ Aim** M I 

Alan an dish 

2 HllSlKkHirUUulilll-l 

3 "ll« Cmlur- Apple I Ui 

same. 'Gaiai/' . . 



A 'Bill limb' - Ht-Res sim.[aiio 
arBSkeelSriccij^ Same ai 
5. 'April TiiPiiMTf Kktfi" 
g-Nrr-OdSTNllur 
7 HEW) Applo 7.-60 CPyM SotlMfl 



n GurrHgtil 

it S2995 

. S74 9S 

$6495 

Call tor Price 



A ATARI 800 & 4oo 

Personal Computer System 

ATARI 800 $825.00 
ATARI 400 $449.00 

ATARI SOO Includes: Compuler Console. BASIC Lang. Cartridge. Education 
System MasterCartridge. BASIC Language Programming Manual. 800 Operator's 
Manual w/Notebook. 16K RAM Module. Power Supply, TV Switch Box. 

i Siiiih Citusi Fntrrai 



Ox 0;~e 



Supei BicikOul™ 

Music Co^crar 
Super Bug™ 






6900 



JbOfJ 



Sim Ekxtt-cil, 

l»lc IimiiI hi|nwC>iuRti 

ij.Jctc 5=-,iC P-o;-3 — ■-■; 

BASIC 0S"< Progiarns 
HIDl llBB( 

Ek RAU Ifprxrt MMue 
I6K RAM Memory MorJule 



Dr.vioq Conircier Pan 

Caddie Crone*' Pa" 



350D 



SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER SELECTION GUIDE 



FflOCESSOP ACP PfilCf. ENCLOSURE H0AR1I 

6502 16(100 Add 2995 SC-SOCK 

6502 239 00 Add 3995 AIM 65 

ZBO 40900 WA CosniacVi 



PROCESSOR ACP PRICE 



ACP'S COMPUTER PRODUCTS & GADGETS 



You won't believe 

your 
ear bones.. 



THE 
BONEFONE 




• SKIERS 

• JOGGERS 

• SKATERS 

• CYCLERS 
You must hear 
II arKj feel it 
to believe it! 



€- 




it $65'- 



QUARTZ LCD WATCH 

WITH SNOOZE ALARM 

The looks and funclions ol the 
expensive models at an 
affordable price. 

NEW! 

6 FUNCTIONS 

• HOURS • MONTH 

• MINUTES • DATE 

• SECONDS • DAY 



An Outstanding ACP Value 
ONLY $21 .95 




LCD CALENDAR 
CLOCK GEAR 
SHIFT KNOB 

Time and Date Digital 
Display with Backlight 
for Night Use. 

.™ F „«c, P NEW!l 



$26.95 




P.O. Box 1 7329 Irvine, Calif. 9271 3 

Direct Order Lines: (714) 558-8813 

(800) 854-8230 or (800) 854-8241 



FOR INTERNATIONAL ORDERS: 
1310 E. Edlnger (7141 9530604 
Santa Ana, CA92705 TWX: 910-595-1565 



370 BYTE February 1981 



Circle 315 on inquiry card. 



COMPUTER 
rPRODUCTS 



1 ESE333E 



• S-1QO 32K (uses 2 ll 4) 



ASSEMBLED 

450ns 459.00 

250ns- 489.00 

Bare Board 43.95 

Bare Board w/all parts less mem. 99.95 



Kit w* " 

450ns. 429.00 
250ns. 459.00 



MODEL 2065 

64K DYNAMIC RAM 

MODULE $600.00 

• DesijnM ti> IEEE Pmwiscd S-100 

• Sucpnti IMSAI-typc fiml Mrets 

• G:--.Hl-:-- /. th M'«:t .ll» 15'Jrll} (IT « j 

Z-BO Msnl S 100 system 

prowling pocemoMnnsiarenl ■ < 

iHieWts win wb 

• B*'*'«'MI system aflows system 




BSsir 



The VISTA V-80 TRS80 ADD-ON 

Disk Drive System 

SALE 
5299.00 



■'." i-.il-> t.irrr, ,ii Mi (iham;;; 



._ SALE ^Bk 

■ $299.00 fl^ 



THE VISTA V-200 FOR EXIDY 




ATTENTION VIDEO HOBBYISTS!!! 

* BOX BUILDERS 

* USE AS REMOTE TUNER/TIMER 

* FULL SCHEMATICS AVAILABLE 

* FOR ONLY S5.90! - FREE W/PURCHASE 



NEW, UNUSED COMPONENTS 

f mm The RCAV0T-2OI VMeocassclle Recaider 

1 UHF.VHF Turin SitjassemWy Aitn all KmUs 

jtJvdfnDp^fliiilo S59.95 

2 HI MrKublo Bill. Aud>0 & VOW iliPUIS 

Ctunflcij.if j ftiinin S3B.93 

3 DiOriaiCHk MnrJuie AMrPM f mnewcm 

Rr.nlr.,1 f,.wil S19.9S 

■i 300 rihm tri fi' Ohm Malctiw] $ 2,40 

□r SZOT SI 23.34 

MfthftutMMMM $74.95 

Please Call For Volume Discounts 



RAM BOARDS SPECIAL 

16K Allair Mils Dynamic RAM Boards 
Assem A Tastod S1 19.95 Untested S95. 00 



16K 




LOW COST FLOPPY 
DISK SUBSYSTEM 

Semens fdd i?ob i2j vista Floppy Coniroi- 

lor|S-100i .C;im;. Power Supply & Cable CP/M 
Disk Qpfrrallng System Assembled 4 Tested 

Walnut Wood Sides SI 400.00 

* CHECK DUf) FIOPPT OISK PRICIMG ON THIS PAGE* 
SAVE $300.00 IS1799.00 VALUE) 



WATANABE MIPLOT 



IMS ST AT I 

8KSta!ic 
16K Static 
32K Static 



c RAM I5A 




250 ns. 
S209.00 
S449.00 
S729.00 



RDS 

450 ns. 
S189.00 
S399.00 
S629.00 



CENTRONICS PRINTER 

Model 737 

• Centronics complete printer 
Tlie 737 has everything. Check 
and compare the features 
New low price $835.00 



..0 SD SYSTEMS BOARDS 

5* TAKE 10% OFF! kit , 



] S26SCQ 

:l 299 00 

31900 



E-aando PROM 
SD1O0 Comouler 
SD200 Comtime* 



.SSEM 
; 349.00 
399 00 
449 00 
■1 - 9 00 
429 00 
225 00 
699500 
7995 00 



6800 

MODEL N 

9600A 

9609 

9601 

9602 

9603 



9627 

9629 

9629A 

9630 

9610 

9650 

9655 

96103 

96702 



MICROMODULE'" PRICE LIST 

3 DESCRIPTION PRICE 

5ingle Board Microcomputer S495.00 

Advanced Single Bd Comp (68091 595 00 
16 Slot Mother Board 17500 

Caid Cage 75 00 

8 Slot Moittci EJoard 100 00 

Power Supply 275 00 

DC Input Power Supply 325 00 

Ui.MvPi-oloBoaid 39 00 

195 00 
49 00 
250 00 
250 00 
29500 
32500 
395D0 
695 00 
395 00 
68 00 
395 00 
395 00 
550 00 
27500 
35000 



Auin Proc/Memory Module 
Buffeted UliHly Proto Board 
32K FJPROm/Ram Module 
EPROM Proyrammmo Head 
16 Channel Parallel I/O Modi. 
Senal.Parallel I/O Module 
c RAM K 



32KS1S 
32K SI3HC R 



150ns 
rl 200ns 



rU31^r57TT77TT7TT 



TRS 80 16K-UPGRADE KIT 



$49.95 TRS-80/APPLE $49.95 

MEMORY EXPANSION KITS, 

4116's, 16K (200/250 ns.) 

8 pes for S49.95 

w/instructions S jumpers 

Call For Volume Pricing 

* Special: TRS80 Schematic S 4 95 

* Expansion Interface Schematic . . S 4.95 

* Expansion Interface Connector. . . 7.95 



EXPANDORAM II MEMORY KITS 

* Bank Selectable * Uses 41 1 6 200 ns. 

* Write Protect -g,* Power 8VDC.±16VDC 

* Phantom n^ces * Up lo 4 MHz 

Expando 64 Kit (4116) Assem. a Tested Add S50 

16K S269.00 48K S435.00 

32K $349.00 64K S505.00 



PERSCI MODEL 299B 

DISKETTE DRIVE 

3.2 Mbytes capacity 

(unformatted), max. seek 

time 100MS. 

ACP Price $2,199.00 



uv 



EpronV' Eraser 

Model UVs-11E S69.95 

Holds 4 Eprom's at a time 

Backed by 45 years 

experience. 

Model S-52T. . . $265.00 

I Industrial Model 




EMAKO-20. . Reg .$777.00 $599.00 



lera • Uppe// Low er Case - 
4 5" 10 9.5" Adjustable 
- 80 col/40 col double 
width-Full 96 Char.ASCII 




EMAKO-22 $799.00 



VISTA V-300 PRINTER 22 

25 CPS, Full Character 

Daisy Wheel, 1 36 Column 

Model 

NO. FP1500 $1995.00 

BASE II PRINTER 

BO Column Impacl Printer ___— — "~~"*fc 

• 60 Unes Per Minute /\f ^LV 

• 11 5/230 VAC. 50 jA _^"~~~--i 
or 60 H7. rzT'^^-^^^A 

• 72,80.96. 120 or ^^*^Z-\^^m^*J 
_ 132Char/Une ^^^^T^^^Z-^"^ 

• Seil-Tes, S^ch ^<^^-^^ REG S693 M 

WITH ALL OPTIONS ACP PRICE $599.00 

Oplion "M" Terminal Screen Bullet 1 1 920 Char I S50 00 

Ofilion "5" Htgh Speed Paper A,iv:nu -■ f. Graphics. . ..50.00 
OpuonT' Tractor Feed . .. .5000 

^SoTz^OA/^O^oTpTJ^OARD™ 

* Or> board 2708 * 2708 Included (450ns.) 

* Power on tump * Completely socketed. 

• 2-80 Assembled and Tested $18500 

• Z-80K.1 SI29.95 

■ Z-BO Bate PC Board S 34.95 

#For1MHi Speed Add SI 5 00 

8080A Kit S 99.95 

8080A Assembled 5149.95 

S-100 MOTHERBOARD SPECIAL 

8 slot expandable w/9 conn. 

reg S69.95 NOW S52.95 

SIEMEN'S FLOPPY sale 

. Spr-nal buy wnile supply lasts SIEMENS 

..Vi.i.JhDouble-Denst.y W29 00 

a r ( r, Qay W.itranty SHUGART 

• CHECK OUR FLOPPY DISK PRICING' s ™ no 

ON THIS PAGE 

ACOUSTIC MODEM £*%**& 

NOVATION CAT'" C-300 Baud ^^J^-Q Qe 

Bell 103 Answer, Originate -— — i^O 

'D' CAT MODEM NOW AVAILABLE 
$199.00 

MONITORS 

Sanyo i?' n.iu Display Zenith 13 Cum Montw i99nc 

DVB I I7CX, S3?500 MGA 13" Color TV 34900 

Motorola 12' H*jii Resolution VAMP 19" Color Monitor 57500 

22 MM/. OEM Model VAMP I5 _ CoW Monitor -14900 

*M3000-340 21900 Sanyo 9 I69 9S 

Motorola 5' Sanyo 15" 2/900 

Wriirt nHlOD ISFirOtMi 119 95 Imlei W 13995 

DATA BOOKS • COMPUTER BOOKS 

1980 IC Master . S5995 

INTEL Data Book ..... 7 50 

INTEL MCS 85 Manual . 7.50 

SALE • OSBORNE BOOKS • SALE Sale 

Introlo Micros Vol. . . 1 2 50 



. 12.50 
16O0 
27.50 
18.50 
IB 50 



SALE • SYBEX COMPUTER BOOKS • SALE 
MOSCa ■ Sra&a 



FIRST TO OFFER PRIME PRODUCTS TO THE HOBBYIST AT FAIR PRICES! 

1. Proven Quality Factory lesled products only. 

2. Guaranteed Satisfaction 

3. Over $1,000,000.00 Inventory 

1981 CATALOG AVAILABLE SOON. 

Send $2.00 for your copy o f the most complete catalog of computer products. 
A must for the serious computer user. 



MICROPROCESSORS 



F-3I3B50) 

2650 

CD1U02 



6SO0B2 


r> |y 


H; 


1995 


6B02P 






1795 


B035 






1995 


B755 






1995 
. 6995 








.37 95 


6086 






6995 


ADVANCED SUPPORT 


AM95II 


An 


i Pieces'. 


3i ... 175 00 


9512 Ai 






i ,.. 175 00 


9513 Ut 






79 95 


AM9BI1 


UN 




r IB 95 


AM9519 


jni 


eisailntci 


upt .18 95 



Z-80SUPPORT CHIPS 



2 5 IV 



. B75 
12.95 



2B0-DMA 25 M 

ZBOA-DUA 10 MHi 36 95 

ZBO-SlO/0 2 5UH2 35 95 

2B0A-SIO/0 40MH2 3910 

ZBO-SIO/1 25MHI 3595 

ZBOA-SlO/l 4 MHi 3940 

ZBOSlO/2 2 5MHI . . ...35 95 

ZSO'StO/2 'lOMHi 39.10 

8080/8085 SUPPORT 

gi55/BI56 I/O 2,1.95 

B755 I/O with Entom ... Bfi.95 
8202 Dyn Ram Con I ,., 31 95 

B205/7.'iS I3B Decoder 3 95 

B21J B bill/o 2 75 

B214 Pnonlylot 5 25 

8216 Bus Duvet 275 

B221 Clock Gt-n 2 95 

B221'1 HMHi) .975 

B226Bns Dnver .. ... . 3 95 

BT26 BusDiiver . .. 2 95 

B22B Sys Control 5 50 

B23B Sys Coni. 5 50 

B25t Ptog I/O 6 95 

8253 Inl T.met 12.95 

8255 Prog I/O 6.50 

B257 Piog DMA 16 95 

8259 Pro?) Inl 17.95 

B27SCRT Controller 19.95 

B2/9 Proa Keyboard 15.95 

6800 SUPPORT CHIPS 

6B10 128. B Ram 4 75 



STATIC RAMS 




1-2.1 2599 




21L02 J50ns /e^uE^ 
21L0? 250ns ( ,-^0^ 
2112 1 V£^ 


1 30 1 25 




3 75 3 65 


i 55 


2 95 2 85 


.' t,S 


21011 


290 270 




21 11L-250ns 11015) 


6 50 5 95 


5 50 


2ii1L'150ns. (1045) 


5 50 525 


4.75 


1014 250ns 


895 7 50 


G90 




5 95 5 95 


4.75 


EMM420OA 


9 75 8 75 


795 


EMM4403 


7 95 7 25 


6 ■; 5 




1095 1025 


9 25 


AMD91 30/31 


1295 1 1 95 


10 25 


1101 


195 175 


1 25 


P2125/93125 (DSniJ 


995 B 35 


825 


651B IK . I CMOS 


7 95 795 


7 25 


2I.17LovjPowci.1K Slall 


1 9 95 1 B 9 E 


1695 


93415 


995 895 


8 50 


TMS40d8 


11 95 10 95 


10 50 


DYNAMIC RAMS 


416/41 1(, 16KH6 Pin) 




8.75 


Set ol8 416s 




49 95 


41 taSKlIB Pm) 




6-95 


4050 1k , l (IG Pm) .. 






.1060 IK* M22Pini.,.. 




. 495 








2104 IK 1 1 (16 P.n) 




4 75 


4027 4H > 1 116 Pin).... 






5261 1 95 C:A\C 1 103 

5262 .. 1 95 OH-r\ 4OO8L 


1 95 
4 95 


5270 A 95 RAMS 6605 




5290 . I?4SS1 59.95 6002 


1 50 




SOCKETS 


»PI„s 


Lo-Pro Sotde 


| Wi.e Wrap 


3 Level 


■tail 


Tin 


Gold 





19 




36 


59 


16 


20 




38 
59 


62 


20 


29 




.69 


99 


22 


24 






1-10 


2-1 


ja 
■13 




110 


120 
1 49 


36 


58 




1 23 


1 69 


•10 


60 




1 10 


1 89 




ZERO INSERTION FORCE 


16 P.n S550 2.1 P.n S 


50 40 Pm 


510 25 



FLOPPY DISK I/O 



1-01 A' B N 



■ ■■:■'. 



13 50 



r-i-iHf tin Cob 

DLrTJI 30D Rco 

DL707 30E RM 

FND357 357 Hcd 

FND501 50D Red 

fNDiOJiSOOl 500 Red 

FflD5C'7!5lOJ 500 RM 



LED READOUTS 

Oic.-iP'isri 



Conim Cairwte 
Conim Callow I- 
Ctmm CalHode 
Crjrrnr. Ann* 



1791-01 OualFiDppy 3695 

A/D CONVERTERS 

8700 a bit Binary 

8701 10 Inl Qmary 
8703 A till TS, 
9400 Volt 10 Freu Conv 
B750 3'j D.y.1 BCO 
140BL6 6 bit 



DAC 100 15 95 

TV CHIPS/SOUND 

AV3B50O- 1 6 Games BAV 4 95 

AV3B5 1 5 Color Conve.iei 2 95 

AV3B603 I Roadrace Game B 95 

AV38606- 1 Wipeout Game 9 50 

AV38607-1 Snonnncj GaMer, a 95 

AV38910 Saund Gen^ratar 12 %5 

SN7647 7 TlS«rjndGen fi raioi 3 95 

MM 5320/2 1 TV Syncn Ge n 9 95 

MM5369 Piescaler 3 95 

LM1BB9 RF MoeulalQi 395 

MM571O0 NSCC0I01TV . 6 95 

MM57I04 Clock Gel), 3 75 

RF Modutalorw/Audio 8 95 



WAVEFORM GEN. 

MC4024VCO . . .. 2 9! 

LM566 VCO - .- 19! 

XR2206 Function Generator 5 2; 

SHIFT REGISTERS 

MMSOOH Dual25 51 

MM5056N Dual 256 2 9! 

MM5060N Dual 128 29 

25iOADLiai 100 19 



3351 40 i 
33570uai 
9403 1 6 x 
940B 10 B 



CTSDIPSWITCHES 

CTS206-2 1.75 CTS206-7 1 75 

CT3206-4 1.75 CTS206-B 1 95 

CTS206-5 1 75 CTS206-9 1 95 

CTS206-6 1.75 CTS206-10 1 95 

CONNECTORS (GOLD) 

DB25P IRS232I . 325 



22/44 WAN. S/T. KIM 
43/86 W/W. S/T. MOT 
50/100 S-100 Connector 
50/100 SIC 



6821 P 
6B2B P 
6B34-1 

6645 H 



5 9'j 



SHIFT REGISTER SALE 



6502 SUPPORT CHIPS 

6520P1A 7 50 

6522 Mull . ... 1 1.95 

653O-0O2.OO3OO1.OO5 21.95 

6532 .. ... 19.95 



275B-5V . 
5203AO . 
5201AO 
IM 5610 

SALE 8223 32 1 
B2S115512 .6 
B2SI23 32 • 8. 
B2SI26 256 < 1 
82S129256 |4 
82S1305I2 »1 
62523 
82S13! 



8 2.95 



CHARACTER GEN. 



2513O01 (5V|Ucc 
2513005 (5V)Low 
2513-AOM3 (5V|L 
MCM6571 
MCM6571A ,.,, 
MCM6571 
MCM6575 . 



UARTS/BAUD RATE 



Ay5iO>3i5V 12VI 

A¥i.10HA/1612l5-14 

A¥!il0i;>A:iaf.3(&Vi 



FND530 500 Ijrrtn Comm Cathole 


149 










NOS03(80fJi 800 Ri.-d Comm CatlioJe 


175 


NAKED PC 


MJB07J61Q) BOO IKO Con in Anode 






tPSOflZ-n.lO 600 to) 4*7 HeMJeomai 




Z-BOCPUirthacai s34 y5 


1^082-7300 600 ReO 1 > / Sd Dig.t HHD 




BOBOA CPU 34 95 


■1* , 5082-7ni 300 RoJ Canm AnOt 


75 


8K Stat-cRAMtLOgosj . 24 95 


JU05 - RbI Arrays ■ 7 


795 




11308 2/0 RM Numencat Dssa, 


MJ95 


32« Slatrc RAM 12 114i 29 95 


1L309 2/0 Hnl Nu"¥ji-j 06W-- 


99^ 


BK Eorom 1270B1 . 24 95 




1095 


1702 Eorom Board 300C 




595 


2708/2716 Ecrom lllhaca) 34 95 


,<Afii- A 270 Red AltmKurTcm: 


895 


2708/2716EpromlWMC) . 3000 


WNJOfil 300 IWJ Comm Annie Bgm DC 


125 


Hcnltimo Clock . .34 95 


LAIJ3062 300 FBO Conmi Ano* Lfti DP 


125 


ACPProloFJd ISMConnl 27 95 


.AN30C3 300 Rid Ovtnlrw CA LillDP 


125 


Vector 8800 Proto 22 20 


LArl3D61 300 Kb! Comm CalWK Rem DP 


125 




(AN3051 300Gu«n Contin Anode R-omDp 


199 


ACP Edender w/Conn JB.95 


»m052 300 Cittn Cunni AnnoeLtnDR 


199 


Video Interlace (SSM| 31 95 


(AN305J 300 Gr«n O.'.-rnw C A.LfflOP 


199 


Parallel mtedace iSSM) . 31 95 


WN3054 SOOCrwn Comm CalniHe Riont DP 




13 Slot MotnerBoard iWMCl 32 95 


1AN30E1 300 V -■:.:» :.:'• m An* R.gtil DP 




9SlotMollier8oardf//MC> 29.95 


IAN30B2 10 Yt now Cnmm Anidf leiiOP 


210 


aSIOIMoHiene.oandablel 3495 


KAH3083 300 Yellow Iwrttoa CA.UK OP 


210 






210 


WMC Floociy PCB 34 95 


IC SPECIAL PURCHASE 




COMPUTER SPECIALS 


LF I350BJFET Analog MuiliB bit 


B95 




lCM7045°iec.sion SlocWalcn 
ICM 7205 CMOS LED S!OGWai(.h/r.mer 
ICM 7207 0-,c.llator Controller 
ICM 72DB Seven Decade Countec 


2395 
19 95 


rtlS coo |rtSi 

0» 3 UST SALE 


iCM 7209 Clock Generator 


6 95 


















195 














Pa catM.croeng.ne 1995 1595 














AV-S-3507-IOMHiDVM 
















































SPX33 0oloCoupter 


3/1 00 










14BB.'14B9 2/1 99 lM 3302 


3/1 99 




MK5D'4Calc 3/199 LM 1558 


3/1 99 




74SB9 3/199 PC413B 


2/199 


Tioncom T-200 595 525 




2/1 99 




MC1372 1195 COM 5027 


3995 




MM529B -4/VB 2 95 COM 5037 


4995 




LM377 125 DAC 1 00 


1595 














VERBATIM 






DISKETTES 




SOCKET SPECIALS 


100% CERTIFIED ERROR-FREI : 








20 Pin wiw-2L 75 


■ is: turns DODDLE DEHSIIl SlKCiE-SUED i'. 


E BO* 10 


22 P.ns/I 15 


5?5 Dl SgriStlo-MKISGO (C 
i35 10 10 Mo>t tum NS AMt «B 













TERMS; Use cbech.. ■'. 
AMEX. CB. or COD CO 
25"d denosit CHarneOrd 



9 95 

;.-. 95 
...s.es 



dtCKS CCJDU S [EG DOUBLE E M S 1 1 v V. 



KEYBOARD ENCODERS 



■ I ICON CI»1lll(D [SKEIliS 

FM0fl-0i Son S-nnf OW15.H 3rjp S335P 

'D60O li 3, 1 H.irrJ Sifijif Densm 5rv.i! 3350 

'0B0? 01 Sott 11W* De*if 1'Jv " BO 

ftjiiw 01 Sot Daefc ^ii-n Dixjy" Densilv i'*o j *bo 

VOLUME DEALER PRICING AVAILABLE 

WE ALSO STOCK DVSAN-CALL 



i FOREIGN Add 10°« 5 
nandtiny COD'S SI B5ei 



RETAIL STORES OPEN MON-SAT 
1310 "B" E. Edlnger STORE 674 El Camino Real 



STORE 1310 "B" E. Edlnger 

*1 Santa Ana, CA 92705 

Showrooms, Retail, Warehouse 



«2 Tustln, CA 92680 

Specializing In Systems 



P.O. Box 17329 Irvine, Calif. 92713 

Direct Order Lines: (714) 558-8813 

(800) 854-8230 or (800) 854-8241 



FOR INTERNATIONAL ORDERS: 
1 31 E. Edlnger (714) 9S3O604 
SantaAna,CA9270S TWX:910-b95-1S65 



Circle 315 on inquiry card. 



BYTE February 1981 371 



SB V S& MICRO 
IV I. SI. S>U£S 



D£/IAS ■□ DEALS □ 0£>US 



SHOP HERE AND 

(7 

10 

(MINIMUM ORDER $10.00) 



This is ABSOLUTELY the LOWEST PRICE EVER 
for a Hi Speed (300 NS) LO-LO Power 32K RAM, 
4K by 1 Chips are organized in Selectable Banks 

• Extended Address Lines A 16 - A17 
• Phantom Line * 9 Regulators 




SCHOOLS 



DIP SWITCHES p°s. PRC. 

4 .88 

5 .92 

6 .95 

7 .99 

8 1.05 

9 1.15 

10 1.19 







.10 .12 

.13 .15 



PINS PC WW 

8 
14 

16 .16 .19 

.18 .21 

.22 .26 

.32 .37 

.34 .39 



18 
20 
24 
28 
40 



AMP - Need we say 
more? There is a dif- 
ference in sockets! 
These aren't the low- 
est prices you can 
find. But, if you've 
been"burned" before 
by bad connections 
in your computer, a 
few pennies for the 
best is worth it! 



.45 .52 



RESISTORS .02 ea! 



(100 PACK) VM 



1.0 
4.7 
6.8 

10 

15 

22 

27 

33 

47 

68 



75 
100 
150 
220 
330 
470 
680 
1K 
1.5K 
2.2K 



2.7K 

3.3K 

3.9K 

4.7K 

6.8 K 

10K 

12K 

15K 

18K 

20K 



22K 
24 K 
27K 
33K 
39K 
47 K 
68 K 
100K 
150K 



220K 

330K 

470K 

680K 

1M 

1.5M 

2.2M 

4.7M 

10M 



WIRE WRAP WIRE 

Packed in 500 Lot Bundles 

(Length includes 2" x 1" Strip) 

Color- R, Bu, G, Y, Bk, W 

50 ft. $1.65 - 100 ft. $3.00 - 500 ft. $9.50 

2.5-3.25 4.0-3.75 6.0-4.75 

3.0-3.35 4.5-4.00 7.0-5.00 

3.5-3.50 5.0-4.50 8.0-5.50 

10.0-6.50 



WIRE WRAP TOOL $5.95 



=H 



5: 




6 Amps 125 VAC 

7 Amps 30 VDC 



DPDT STANDARD TOGGLE 
ST21 (ON-NONE-ON) 
ST22 (ON-OFF-ON) 
ST23 (MOM ON-OFF-MOM ON) 
ST24 (ON-OFF-MOM ON) 
ST25 (ON-NONE-MOM-ON) 
ST26 (ON-ON-ON) 



HOBBIEST 



LM323K 5V 3A . 



REGULATOR 

$5.50 




TAB MOUNT 

7805 +5V 1A 

7905 -5V 1A 

7812 +12V 1A 

7912 -12V 1A 

$1.25 



♦ GOLD ♦ 
S-100-CONNECTOR 



Tlor Better 



SOLDER TAIL 



WIRE WRAP 



$2.50 $3.25 



DIP PLUGS 

PART* PINS 




08DP 
14DP 
16DP 
24DP 
40DP 



8 
14 
16 
24 
40 



.40 
.55 
.58 
.95 
1.50 



Socket and Dip Plug priced based on 
gold not exceeding $700 per ounce. 



CONNECTORS 



DUAL 


ROW .100 


CARD EDGE 


PINS 


PRICE 


PINS 


PRICE 


20 


2.35 


20 


3.35 


26 


3.00 


26 


3.80 


34 


3.85 


34 


4.65 


40 


4.50 


40 


5.50 


50 


5.50 


50 


5.90 



RIBBON - 20 to 34 @ 1 .00 ft. 
40 & 50 <a> 1 .30 ft. 

CRIMPING 2.00 / CONNECTOR 



PRICE 



OEM'S 



Z-80-A 

$6.95 

4MHZ Beastie with extra instructions! 



Z-80 SUPPORT 

CTC - $6.55 

SIO - $25.50 

PIO - $6.50 

DMA - $18.75 

All 4MHZ (who wants 2 MHZ?) 



74LSXX 



74LS00 
74LS01 
74LS02 
74LS03 
74LS04 
74LS05 
74LS06 
74LS07 
74LS08 
74LS09 
74LS10 
74LS11 
74LS12 
74LS13 
74LS14 
74LS15 
74LS20 
74LS21 
74LS22 
74LS26 
74LS27 
74LS28 
74LS30 
74LS32 
74LS33 
74LS37 
74LS38 
74LS40 
74LS42 
74LS47 
74LS48 
74LS35 
74LS54 
74LS55 
74LS73 
74LS74 
74LS75 
74LS76 
74LS78 
74LS83 
74LS85 
74LS86 
74LS90 
74LS92 
74LS93 
74LS95 
74LS96 



.33 
.33 
.33 
.33 
.59 
.39 
.39 
.39 
.59 
.39 
.29 
.39 
.39 
.69 

1.2 5 
.49 

1.9 5 
3.7 
.29 
.39 
.49 
.39 
.49 
.95 

1.95 
.75 
.39 
.25 

1.39 
.79 
.79 
.25 
.25 
.70 
.79 
.59 
.79 
.79 
.49 
.95 

1.49 
.95 
.75 
.75 
.95 

1.29 

1.29 



74LS107 
74LS109 
74LS112 
74LS113 
74LS114 
74LS122 
74LS123 
74LS124 
74LS125 
74LS126 
74LS132 
74LS133 
74LS136 
74LS138 
74LS139 
74LS145 
74LS148 
74LS151 
74LS154 
74LS155 
74LS156 
74LS157 
74LS158 
74LS160 
74LS161 
74LS162 
74LS163 
74LS164 
74LS165 
74LS166 
74LS168 
74LS169 
74LS170 
74LS173 
74LS174 
74LS175 
74LS18 1 
74LS189 
74LS190 
74LS191 
74LS192 
74LS193 
74LS194 
74LS195 
74LS196 
74LS197 



.59 

.59 

.59 

.59 

.49 

.59 

1.19 

1.49 

.89 

.89 

.79 

1.19 

.69 

.99 

.99 

1.25 

1.49 

.79 

2.49 

1.49 

1.49 

1.49 

1.49 

.75 

1.99 

1.2 5 

1.25 

2.15 

1.49 

2.49 

2.95 

1.95 

1.95 

1.25 

1.49 

1.49 

2.15 

6.95 

.99 

1.95 

1.95 

1.95 

1.49 

.95 

.95 

1.95 



74LS221 
74LS240 
74LS241 
74LS242 
74LS243 
74LS244 
74LS245 
74LS247 
74LS248 
74LS249 
74LS251 
74LS253 
74LS257 
74LS258 
74LS259 
74LS260 
74LS266 
74LS273 
74LS275 
74LS279 
74LS283 
74LS289 
74LS290 
74LS293 
74LS295 
74LS298 
74LS324 
74LS352 
74LS353 
74LS365 
74LS366 
74LS367 
74LS368 
74LS373 
74LS374 
74LS377 
74LS378 
74LS379 
74LS386 
74LS390 
74LS393 
74LS395 
74LS490 
74LS668 
74LS669 
74LS670 



2.95 
2.95 
2.49 
1.95 
1.95 
2.95 
8.95 
1.19 
1.19 
1.69 
1.79 
.95 
1.95 
1.95 
2.95 
.75 
1.15 
1.75 
4.39 
.79 
1.49 
5.75 
1.29 
1.95 
1.95 
1.29 
1.75 
1.65 
1.65 
.95 
.79 
.99 
.99 
2.95 
3.95 
1.95 
1.95 
1.95 
.59 
1.95 
1.95 
1.95 
4.95 
1.69 
1.89 
3.55 



DEALS □ DEALS □ D£/IAS 



OUR BUYERS ARE IN 

CONTACT WITH EVERY MAJOF; 

SUPPLIER AND O.E.M. 

BUY HERE AT 1000 PIECE 

QUANTITY PRICES 

ALL MERCHANDISE 100% 

GUARANTEED! 15 DAY FULL 

CASH REFUND! 






JUST HOT STUFF 



POWER 
SUPPLIES 



If you can 

4beat these prices 

f we will be truly 

amazed. OEM's 

at 500 lot pay more 

than this. Call or write for full spec, sheets. 




DISK POWER SUPPLIES 


PRIAM- SHUG ART -CENTURY- MICROPOLIS 


+5V@9A |-5V@>.8A I+24V @ 7A | US-3B4 


89.00 


SHUGART - SIEMANS - MPI 5V 


+5V @ .5A 


+ 12V@.9A 




US-340 


33.50 


+5V @ 2A 


+ 12V@4A 




US-323 


56.25 


SHUGART - SIEMANS - CDC 8" 


+5V@ 1A 


-5V@.5A 


+24V@ 1.5A 


US-205 


52.50 


+5V @ 2A 


-5V@.5A 


+24V @ 3A 


US-206 


69.00 


+5V@3A 


-5V@.6A 


+24V@5A 


US-162 


89.00 


+5V@1.7A 


-5V @ 1.5A 


+24V@2A 


US-272 


69.00 


+5V @ 2A 


+ 12V@.4A 


-12V@.4A 


US-HTAA 


37.50 



TELEVIDEO 912C 

SOROC IQ120- $675.00 
Televideo 912C- 665.00 
ADDSR-25 - 710.00 

Also have S20C, SOROC, 
HAZELTINE, etc. What 
we don't have is room on 
this page. Call Toll Free 
800 number for prices. 




C-ITOH PRINTER 
$499.00 

Look closely at the 

photo and see other 

adds in this rag at 

$995.00. Perfect units, 

warranteed. Only 500 pes. Same story, 

manufacturerer had too many. 




S-100 CARD EXTENDER 



$12.50 

(Gold Contacts) 

As long as there is a 
price war, we will fight 
your battle. Compare 
at your local Dept. 
store and buy U$ MICRO. 




MEM0REX - VERBATUM - WABASH 

BASF FLOPPIES 

BOX OF 10 ONLY: 

$2.65 ea 



5V4" 

5V." 

5%" 

8" 

8" 

8" 



SOFT 
HARD 10 
HARD 16 
SOFT 1D 
SOFT 2D 
SOFT2DDS 



2.65 ea. 
2.65 ea. 
3.25 ea. 
3.85 ea. 
5.00 ea. 



664 N. MICHIGAN AVE. • SUITE 1010 • CHICAGO, ILLINOIS 60611 

CALL TOLL FREE: 1-800-435-9357 * MONDAY thru SATURDAY 

(ILLINOIS RESIDENTS CALL: 815-485-4002) • 8:00a.m. to 6:30p.m. 

TERMS: Prepayment - C.O.D. up to $100.00 - M/C, Visa 

Please allow personal check to clear before shipment. 



WRITE FOR FULL CATALOG! 



SPECIAL OF THE QUARTER SPECIALS OF THE MONTH 



S1-MOD (KIT) 

$189.00 




Complete S-100 12 Slot Computer. Ample 
system power with regulated power for drives. 
Excellent for Subsystem or Hobby use. 
4 hours to build. {6 conn, incl., less fans) 



DUAL DRIVE SUBSYSTEM 



$995.00 




2 SHUGART 801R 
POWER SUPPLY 



If this looks like a Lobo 

DriveSystem, don't be 

fooled. Just because it 

looks like one, works like one, smells like one 

and tastes like one (?) doesn't mean it has to 

cost like one! 



EXPANDABLE RAM 

*SPECIAL*SPECIAL*SPECIAL* 



This is the best all 
around 64K board 
you can buy. If after 
you see it, you don't 
agree return for full 
refund. Bank Select 
by extended address 
lines or I.O. 40H. 



vijiiisitiiiiiiB 



• $389.00 A&T* 



S-100 POWER 
$79.50 

Simple Brute Force! 

S-100 Power Supply, 

30A <s> +8V, 

6A <s> +16V, 

6A <s> -16V, 

PC Board Design. 



Jfc 




Z-80 CPU (KIT) 



The first time thfs 

world popular CPU 

offered in Kit. 2 serial, 

3 parallel, CTC, EProm 

Z-80 at 4 mhz. Software 

buad rate, etc. (less Prom & cable) 




$212.00 



12 SLOT MOTHER 



We have connectors and power 
supply too. Start your system 
with quality components. 
Terminated. 




$22.50 

CONNECTORS $2.50 ea. 



FANS $14.95 







m 



These are brand new, 

in the box fans. Not 

noisey bearing pullouts. 

Never again at these low prices! 



3-1/8' 



4-5/8" 



4116s 

200 IMS 

Expansion 16K Dynamic 
RAMs for Apple, TRS-80 



Intel, Call for manufacturer 




$3 



DIP-80 $399.00 



Don't be mislead by this _ 

LOW price. This is a rug- — tf 

ged 100% Duty Cycle ■•'' 

7 by 7 Dot Matrix Printer. jnM^Mi^H 
Brand new, factory warr. i 

• RS-232 ADD $65.00 
• TRACTOR FEED ADD $70.00 



2114s 

I One of the world's two 

most popular STATIC 

RAMs. Factory prime 
I tested units. Sold in lots of 8 only. 

FUJITSU, HITACHI, etc. 




$3.45 



200 NS 



TMS-4044 
MM-5257 
INTEL 2147 



$4.25 

250 NS 



The other of the world's most popular STATIC 
RAMs. This one is 4K by 1 organization. Don't 
buy Gold, buy these, the price won't last! 



2716s 
2708s 



$13.50 (450 NS) 
$6.95 (450 NS) 



Remember when 2716s were $50.00 and hard 
to get? These units are so beautiful it's hard to 
part with them. But we will, for a small price. 
Guaranteed! 



SHUGART DRIVE 

8" 851 R $585.00 

8" 801R 

Manufacturer had . ^ -^ _ -^ -^ 

too many, buys at $395.00 

1000 piece rate, 

sales dropped, so we got'em. Fantastic buy, get 
them while they last! Full warranty. 



SIEMANS DRIVE 

8" 120-8 

$375.00 

Very Special Price on 

these BRAND NEW current production units. 

Add $10.00 for Extended 1 Year Warrantee! 



Circle 316 on inquiry card. 



CaIiFornia DiqiTAi 

Post Office Box 3097 B • Torrance, California 90503 




FREE PLASTIC LIBRARY CASK INCLUDED WITi) THE 
PURCHASE OE EVERY BOX OF DISKETTES 



CiilifomU IJi^it^l l>v one of 
liruiuci'i'it of magnetic uiedt 
itlloil double density at 40 



i every box of disku'.u 
I p]uase specify Ctiliijiutur 



MINIDISKETTES 
cmorex 1)401 

:,-lui!im .V.THtUHlK! 



MMU-CDS(DI)tlO) 

rtfjulrt-'d sudors. 



MB^T. box 



Cue hundred boxes 321,30 



T*4(0HiaXlB) 



EICHT INCH 


Seoieli box 


10 lis. OysiW ijos 1U Iw. MUX lio.l 


10 bK 


Single side/single den 


7-10-D $JJ3. 


$33. :n.;«/i S4ti. 5-n. aouu * : 




Single sldW double- i1l-i 


7-11-D i.">. 


-l;i. ;m*/ld 7:1 73. 30M ;i' 




Single Bldelm sector 


i-io-s-i :is. 






Double aide/ double [) 


713-1 GS. 


Sil. na. 3115 4! 


-15. 


SCOTCH brand head c 


L-aniim kit. $ 


24.y:j W-.IA-CK(3>(fi) please spectfv i 


/-i a" 


Prices available on rt 


l " MI ,0, ' : ^" 


. cariridgos. diskpneks. tfulumn tltsh 


tten. 



IIM0IY 



r 



TRS-80 &l 
APPLE II 

16k memory (8)4116 's 







r 



~r 



-a 



I installation is simple. Anyone who has 
ever changed a spark plug should bo abl« 
lo up-grade his mitii'ocomputer. 

How can Ca il'uriiia Digital offer these 
memory up-grade suis ul 25% below our compel ition? 
Simple, we l)ii, y in volume, whole-sale lu dealers autl 
sill Die balance directly in owners ol' personal micro- 
systems. These 16K dynamic memory circuits are 
factory pi'imc and uncondiUoiudly guaranteed for one 
full \-ear. NOW, before you uliaiige your mind, pick 
up the telephone- and order your up-grade memory 
Iron California UigiUd. Add $3 for TRS80 jumpei-s. 

STATIC i-3i :3l'-9 ( j loo- jc -yytj ]|\t- 

.09 .Hb .90 . 8a 

. J9 



21L02 4fi0nS. 1. 19 

2IL02 250nS. 1.49 

LM14 IKx-l 450 .",. Of) 

2114 IKwl 300 IS. 9". 

4044 -IKxl 4.i0 5. Ub 

4044 41 \1 250 9. 95 

4045 1KX4 450 8. 95 
4045 !Kx4 250 9. 95 
5 '2 5 7 low now. 5. 95 



1. 25 



. 50 



4. 50 



8. 50 8. 00 



9.00 * 

8.00 * 

9. 00 * 

5.00 4.80 




NEW 

from 

Shugart 

Technology 

5 

Megabyte 
Hard Disk Drive 

Packaged in the same physical size, as the industry stan- 
dard 5 i/4" minifloppy disk drive. The micro- Winches- 
ter stores thirty times as much data (6.38 megabytes 
unformatted), accesses data twice as fast (170 milli- 
seconds) Eind transfers data twenty times faster (5.0 
megabits per second. ) 

The ST506 is factory sealed to protect the media ironi 
envii'onme t al contaminates- Requires only DC voltage. 
Dual California Digital 5 1/-1" enclosure. 
ST506 drive and power supply. 

Shugart Associates SA400 removable 
media disk drive for above package, add: 
S-100 tt Apple controller scheduled for 
spring release. 



*1500 
*300 



^3, Shugart Associates 



IBM 2980 

SELECTRIC 

BANK 
TERMINAL 

*250 







II1M :>l'S!U icroiin.-il wis i 

Eh hank. Information entered "no tiis terminal would insiautwitauslT 

usiBiiiui'B :icrJOUIlt ■" Hi" computer. A record of tbc iraitsaci ion w«lld 
lusted into Hit CuBtomePS passbook iuiiI siiniiliuiuoiislv recoi-di.il onto ;i com 
ous 4U column |wjpt*p 1-..U loci.iL'd within Hie terminal. USKU 
:ach Liiii is supplied with prim b;dl. ribbon and documentation. 77 lbs. SP(J-2UUu| 



mmm ■& ! 24? s 



s , _ _ g. vtll'.urv ui Kit niwLii lui niJb iez. r\ i_ i -inn 

'tHf Iff . iu ke^ .Micro-Switch t.r.'Md n-fi Erh-a 

"iq^jp EH~TH^MI7J ktvboai'd. (U5LU). Ten l.n 1T1. 

1 LLl-P* • San,Gm,h ,,iti, ASCII »„c,k 



LLFTXt 



Also available Maid-! 



$139.50 




801/ R Disk Drive 15 lbs. 

Shugari 301/il witli CP'IOB puwap SH 
plete in dual enclosure with all tlio V 
DOGUmenlation included. Mi pounds. MSI)- liSOl 

wiih Iwo .Sluii!.u-t 801H -I 
r,Q pounds. MSD-2801 
Disk drive cable. !> rei't TiO conduciur wttti edye c 
al boib ends. WCA-850S {23.00 

isk -ii-ivfs. 230V. SO-Mlfe add SSO.OO jjt_-i 




271B EPROM 

SALES 95 

We h.ive slashed price in an effort to rodaee our over 
stocked inventory. These are single five volt EPROMs 
manufactured by or,& of (he Worlds largest producers 
! of semiconductors . All are first quality prime devices. 
Ceramic 450 nS. 




I UlTiNvViolET ProcIucts LVS 11 E 

UV EPROM ERASER 

With purchase of 

FORTY 

2716 EPROM's 

^/V value 




BSR Timer eiyht channel *f>5,.00 

Master comrol console 34.95 

Ultrasonic Conirollc-r UtJH 




TI-81D 

1495 

List $1895 




Iniaui wire wrap(Tli 

Sullins [H-!!cl. . ••M' 
Sullins tlt-Kcl. WAV 

Sullins/AUair . MU" 



:*S/72 Diyit.il tJi-ouji s! r r,.m 

.'(G/73 Di^iinl Group WAV (i.liU 

JH/UC Mntnrola lilifKlS/l' G.liU 

i;t/!lG Moio. CUD* \V/\i 7. lit) 



B pili S.l* ?.0U $,43 

M phi -ID .Bi) .!'i 

10 pin .1^ .11 ,50 

11! pin .'5 ,13 M 

2-\ pin -2DI .'M „»<t 

40 pin .-)J .-ID 1.80 



IJU^.'iS ri.-in:J^ :i.j:, J.I;, 



RHlliLK CABIJ-, i:i.KM!:c'i'(.n:.s 
it) Alt) Tll.S-au O;;, -|.i)^ '1.7 




PORTABLE DATA ENTRY SYSTEM 



Regulated $Q95 

Power Supply 

5 VOLT 5 AMP 




53 Sankyo Magnetic 
Card Transport 



tl I Mil l MODULATOR 








^i. 



□ATA INPUT 
^r-^, TERMINAL 



ircd rrDin ihe CMC divLsiun ...f 'lit-- i'lT.K 
ritlon. The unit was uricinUlv ilcsiniicd 
li directly onto magnetic tape. 



ici? .1 d:.t.. :mi) mIoi-Is iln.- (tju-iMtor or iiL-niling problcniB. 
I of nil ibis "XJSEU" u-riiiiu.d, wiib , ttule iniafitaalifln, can be ctwJttwi 
ii S-100 Loin|.uler jiiiI vidua display; or wi'li slti-li 



i the Kockwirll AIR1-B5 "'icro/cu™puiL' 



ipplv 



n for 



ion.d :LM). I si.-.- Jum.- 



WESTERN UNION 

ENCLOSURE 





efeiy 



m 



VISA 



All merchandise sold by California Digital is premium grade. 
Shipping: First five pounds $2.00; each additional add $.40 
Foreign orders 10% shipping. Excess will be refunded. 
California residents add 6% sales tax. COD's discouraged. 
Open accounts extended to state supported educational institu- 
tions and companies with a "Strong Dun.& Bradstreet. " 
Warehouse: 15608 Inglewood Blvd. Visitors by appointment. 



-.-,'■-■ surplus In. Int I ..-v ln.XCS .supplied with Ihrei; 

■•'■Jil L -duu doiint-c:T C1J ^: UH25S coinmuiiLcatioiis conncclor: 1 

10 1/3" ^S UK SbippinR w.-i K bl 8 lt». 3^4.77^ 



TOLL FREE ORDER LINE 

800)421-5041 

TECHNICAL & CALIFORNIA 

213679-9001 



CAlifoRNJA DiGITAL 

Post Office Box 3097 B • Torrance. California 90503 



Full 136 Characters 
for the price of 80 






Introducing the 

ANACOM ISO 

DOT MATRIX PRINTER 

Mfg. suggested list $1350 
California Digital Introductory Price 

SI 




quality of Hie pr 



i tin- moHu-t for ,! "C^-iulii'- LiiL'imrn 
■later, pit : as u consider ihe Anacom I". 1 
.sine, a less reliable iiiuchme. 



iA-ir.StP. Held 



====== 31D1 

= s-a =■=■= DISPLAY 
= ^="="= TERMINAL 

■In., plug tomf>;iinlile micro ei.inplliei- In.lusl rv. 

I'hU nioduliiflv finiBin4Bi«ii CHi-Ti.itniii.il )ma bi!i.-n 
triiBineetUid Kiih iIil- usei- in mind, rlic video display 
liitxluuK swivels Jilirl lt|ta li> provide llii.- gp-fMOl- with 

L-risp 1 in- II cluiFOBlur nl.ili-ix. 

lu display r.uclime siritus and aid in tilt diagnostics 

with iimnei'ie piitrv p.id. Kiriit user rit-fllialiU furic- 

Vlic I1H1 vhlva terminal is KSL'i? compilable .mil tis- 
plavs -.1! l:!fl ASHII characters includim; conli-ol codes 

Accessible customer setup swIlclurS aid in etioasine 
such opilous as line (speed, pju-itv scroll. and reverse 

Hui iirosi of nil. llitilt inlu evef>' U 01 le-ruiiii.-.I is ttie 
i|u..Hl>' tll.'H vou llllVi! l.'ari.eil in irspeel from L)|« IBM 




IBM direct price 11295 
CALIFORNIA DIGITAL 

discount price 

tllQC Immediate 

lltJO deliver 

. ...'..i.>.u:.j;ax£or| 
,.. t ==&-*■ i 



.i.li., 
■ U.K., 




:: LME\A/ 

from 
INTEGRAL DATA 

460 

Paper Tiger 



-*--- $1150 



GRAPHICS 



lic.illy uVerlappin[> dols. The ln:.id 

| ccasor control liy a stepper molor d 

Two K " buffer allocs the primer i. 






tfECSpinwriter 
551QP/S 





JEC V-300 

®Word Processing 

DaisyWheel Printer 

U595 



.■aHonnlily priced l-.'iier (jiialliy printer. . . 

:o" horizontal, 1/48" vertical. 

b standard Uiablo brand tnterehangsble daisy prli 

1 (Julia CPU microprocessor iront rolled. Interfax 
noctor. Shipping ft 8 !b B . PRV-30G. 



TELETYPE MODEL 43 



4320 KEYBOARD MODELS 
TTL serial output AAA $ US5 
RS232 aerial AAK 1050 

Friction 80 column A AE 1100 
Friction 80 RS232 AAL 1195 
Hell 103 Modem AAB 1495 




r r^n 




a EPSON 

MX-80 *495 



llle 11X-H0 l: 



ajier. Requires "fight 

.11.1 interfacine.. PHK-.UMHI 



CEnTRDniC5 

730 $595 
737 $750 

Uoih tin.- Centronics 730 and the 737 are capable of ace. 
standard office letterhead or pin feed continuous Forms. 
tor higher rcsoluiion the 737 implements a nine wire d< 
f. .TiX print lie.id. Parallel interfacing. Add $65 for 
RS232. PitC-7'JOI* IS). PRC-737P <S) 17 lbs. 



VISA 




HEWLETT PACKARD 

2650 




HPS5 



(.-lull Packard ilP-8.i is a co 
low cos' portable computer 
. I his self contained packn 
■; I'i't , keyboard, printer. 




AMPEX 

DIALOGUE 80 
CRT TERMINAL 



J 995 



New from the Ampex Corporaili.il. The Minlu^te BU features removable keyboard, 
dlsplayable two paces (fuiir i ipi innal ) ilual |i ■'t)|.;i~rn J i keys, half intensity protected 

fields and status line. Transmits data either block, line or character mode. 
Excellent value. VDT-EJ80 shipping J7 lbs. 




Appled Qgtal Data Systems Ire 



in ■<; i:\ I 3D 



special function 
i ti'.pliies. :; iih 

nini. v i rr-uao 




BMC 

VIDEO 
MONITOR 

s 259 



-hosphor with in MH« band- 

jfiii video input make the BMC 
monliur for anvtaie i-eu.ii i rint; 




direct connect 



Your Choice 



MODEM $169 



11k. Universal Uala Svsien s 1031.1' is s.vi.eli selectable bMwecii answ.'r .«»! orie 
Inntu mod.-s. lullv Hell IQ.'I cumpatalile. IHrti-lly eoiniecls lo Hie neiv nui.lnlai- 
telephone jack. 100«i poaeiid I , ri>in the telephone line. Xo need lo loenie iiiudeni i 
|!f.iM!: uv to A.C.NO- ei- I'LcepHcle. lid l)-10:ll .1' '£ pounds. 

Nov., lion "l)"Cat connects to nmsl of Ike new "Bell" .i.o.lular rtamJSKtS. Ideal for 



All merchandise sold .by California Digital is premium grade. 
Shipping: First five pounds $2.00; each additional add $.40 
Foreign orders 10% shipping. Excess will be refunded. 
California residents add 6% sales tax. COD's discouraged. 
Open accounts extended to state supported educational institu- 
tions and companies with a "Strong Dun & Bradstreet. " 
Warehouse: 15608 Ihglewood Blvd. Visitors by appointment. 



ACCESSORIES FOR THE 



COMPUTER 




CALIFORNIA COM 



irfac 



5 Inlcrfai 



1 2K PltOiM Modul 
Calender/ Clock. B;il. Iinck-U 
Parallel interface 772Q.-\ 
Programme Tinier 1T-I0A 
Analofi/Dicilal convener 7 11 



U.C. HAYES PRODUCTS 
Micro mot lorn for Apple 
COMPUTE]) STOP PHOULiClS 
Double Vision / U0 Column Video 

INTERACTIVE STRUCTURES 
1C Channel A/D card AlO/st 



tlOL'.\TACv CO.MPUTEit PKODUCTS 
Jitro X-10 sys-.em for USH $231 

iiiro X-10 cardoiJv 10? 



5SM MICROCOMPUTER 

Uuid serial parallel interface A 

SOI1HENTO VALLfJY ASSCXIIAI 



S-IOO BOARDS 

Assembled • Tested • Burned in 




MEASLillt.Mt^r SYSTEM 
Dynamic memory DMU-6! 
Dynamic memory D1II1 -3:i 
GODHOUT/COMPUPHO 
llual B0BB/B08J 16 hit CPU 
2-80 CPU 11 bil address -1 Mil 
Static RAM32K (Alpha Itlicro) 



SEATTLE computilH PRODUCT 

B0I1G IB bil CPU 2 eaial set /it Li tins 
CALIPOHN1/1 COMPUTh.;U SYSTKP 
S-10U Mainframe 2200A 



CALIICHMA DATA COHI'I'IIATION 



rrupt com'l 3P/3S 



511 SALES 



MUM.1CR PRODUCTS 

E«temlcr lioai-r^Lofilf pro 
Relay •SJlo/comrol board 
13. C. HAYES PRODUCTS 
Mleromodem S-10D ICC 
ARTEC ELECTHOMC5 



IIOBfi CPU 



TELETEK 



SINGLE BOARD COMPUTER 
FLOPPY DISK CONTROLLER 



-;t:i_'l<- 



bd) 



and two parallel ports add lo lltC fleX- 
ihiiiiy of this single board c-utnpuier. 
CX'her standard features ire realtime 
clock, reset jump to monitor, voetorei 
interrupts and potvnttal lor eomrollini 
With the addition of an uxlenial 2a volt j.o 1 
board becomes cap all ti? <>( pt-.-iiramiiif -'Tl 




S-100 Mother Board $35 



Quiet 
Boss 

8803-18 
18 slot 
IMSAI 



TOLL FREE ORDER LINE 

(800)421-5041 

TECHNICAL & CALIFORNIA 

(213)679-9001 




Circle 317 on Inquiry card. 



3' x HEADQUARTERS 



2114-3L 


5257-3L 


2708 


2716 


4096 BIT (1024x4) 300ns 


(TMS 4044) 


450ns 8K 


450ns 5 Volt only 


LOW POWER STATIC RAM 


4096x1 300ns 
LOW POWER STATIC RAM 


EPROM 


16 K EPROM 


8/ 3 32 oo 


8/ s 50 00 


s 8 50 each 


s 11 95 each 


100 + s 3 00 


100 pes. + s 4 75 


or 8/ s 54 00 


or 10/ s 90 00 



MODEM SALE 
$129.00 

THE STAR 

MODEM 

from LIVERMORE 

FEATURE 

FITS GTE HANDSETS! 

2 YEAR WARRANTY 

EXCLUSIVE ACOUSTIC CHAMBERS 

The exclusive triple seal of Livermores new flat mounted 
cups locks the handset into the acoustic chamber yielding 
superior acoustic isolation and mechanical cushioning. 
Designed to adapt to most common handsets used 
throughout the world, the STAR offers the utrnost in flex 
ibility and transmission reliability. 





Specifications: 

■ Data Rate: to 300 baud 

■ Compatibility: Bell 103 and 113; CCITT 

• Frequency Stability: ±0.3 percent. Crystal controlled 

• Receiver Sensitivity: -50 dBm ON, —53 dBm OFF 

• Modulation: Frequency shift keyed (FSK) 

■ Carrier Detect Delay: 1.2 seconds ON; 120 msec OFF 

• E1A Terminal Interface: Compatible with RS 232 
specifications 

• Teletype Interface: 20 milliampere current loop 

• Optional Interfaces: IEEE 488; TTL; TTY 43 

• International (CCITT) frequencies available 

• Switches: Originate/Oft/Answer; Full Duplex/Test/Half 
Duplex 

■ Indicators: Transmit Data, Receive Data, Carrier 
Ready. Test 

• Power: Supplied by 24 VAC/150 MA ULVCSA listed wall- 
mount transformer. Input 115 VAC, 2.5 watts. (A 220 
VAC, 50 Hz adaptor is available upon request.) 

• Dimensions: 10" x 4" x 2" 

• Weight: 1.74 lbs. (3 lbs. shipping weight including AC 
adaptor.) 

• Warranty: Two years on parts and labor, excluding the 
AC adaptor which carries the manufacturers warranty 









List 


SALE 


1 Part No. 


Description 


Price 


PRICE 


LIV-STAR 


RS232, TTL Modem 


$199.00 $129.00 


LIV-STAR20M 


RS232, 20MA Current Loop $199.00 


512900 


LIV-STAR-VZ1 


CCITTEuropeanStandard $229.00 


.20900 


LIV-IEEE 


IEEE 488 Standard 


$395.00 


[249.00 


LIV-IEEE-V21 


IEEE 48B. CCITT Standard V $465.00 $388.00 




CABLES 


m 


[ 




Pact No. 


Description 


<^ 


^ 


Price 


■ CND-RS2328F RS232 8 Cond 8 ft. . . 


i 


^ 


.$19.95 


I LIV-I2I IEEE to IEEE 2 Meter 


} 




$59.95 


1 LIV-I2PETIEEE to Pet 2 Meter 






$59.95 


RS232 and "D" SUB-MINIATURr 








rnNNPr.TDi 


,s r 






^WffiWJVi'i^ 

WWW—/ 






/ ** ' — 


Wft^t 




^T 


>■* 


P = Plug. Male Type - S = Socket. Female Type - 


C = Cover. Hood 


PAR 


NO. 


DESCRIPTION 




PRICE 










19 


1D-24 


2599 


CNQ 


DE9P 


9 PIN MALE 


S 2.10 


S 1.90 


$ 1. 70 


CND 


DE9S 


9 PIN FEMALE 


S 2.70 


S 2.40 


$ 2.10 


CND 


DE9C 


9 PIN COVER 


S 1.50 


S 1.25 


$ l .10 


CND 


DA15P 


15 PIN MALE 


$ 2.75 


S 2.45 


$ 2.15 


CND 


DA15S 


15 PIN FEMALE 


$ 3.95 


S 3.60 


$ 3.20 


1 CND 


DA15C 


15 PIN COVER 


S 1.50 


S 1.30 


$ 1.10 


1 CND 


DB25P 


25 PIN MALE 


S 3.5D 


S 3.25 


$ 3.00 


1 CND 


DB2SS 


25 PIN FEMALE 


S 4.60 


S 4.35 


$ 4.20 


1 CND 


0851212 


1 PC. GREY HOOD 


S 1.60 


S 1.45 


S 1.30 


1 CND 


P25H 


2 PC. GREY HOOD 


S 1.50 


S 1.25 


$ 1.10 


1 CND 


DB51226 


2 PC. BLACK HOOD 


S 1.90 


S 1.65 


$ 1.45 


1 CND 


DC37P 


37 PIN MALE 


S 5.80 


S 5.10 


$ 4.45 


1 CND 


DC37S 


37 PIN FEMALE 


$ B.70 


$ 7.70 


$ 6.70 


1 CND 


DC37C 


37 PIN COVER 


$ 1.80 


$ 1.55 


S 1.30 


1 CND 


DD5DP 


50 PIN MALE 


S B.75 


J 7.75 


$ 6.70 


1 CND 


JD5DS 


50 PIN FEMALE 


$11.65 


$10.25 


$ B.90 


1 CND 


DDSDC 


50 PIN COVER 


$ 2.00 


S 1.B0 


$ 1.60 


1 CND 


020418 


HARDWARE SET 2 PR. 
RK?3? ORWP FIA 


S 1.00 


$ O.BO 


$ 0.7D 


1 CND 


RS232BF CLAS < 


$19.95 


$17.95 


$15.95 






CENT 700 SERIES 








| CND 


5730360 


PRINTER CONNECTOR 


$ 9.00 


$ 7.50 


$ 6.00 



S ^£ 



Static S-100 Memory 



32K ECONORAM XX 

List Price 

GBT164A16 16K RAM AST $399.00 

GBT164A24 24K RAM AST $539.00 

GBT164A32 32K RAM AST $699.00 

16K ECONORAM XIV 



$329.00 
$455.00 
$569.00 



GBT143U 
GBT143A 



Unkil 
A&T 



List Price Our Price 

$279.00 

$349.00 $299.00 



SPECTRUM 
S-100 COLORGRAPHICS BOARD 



GBT144U UNKIT 
GBT144A A&T 



List Price Our Price 

$299.00 

$399.00 $349.00 



GBT2D SUBLOGIC UNIVERSAL GRAPHICS 

INTERPRETER SOFTWARE $35.00 

8085/8088 CPU BOARDS 
Board with 8085 only 

List Price Our Price 

GBT161U Unkit $235.00 

GBT161A Assembled & Tested $325.00 $305.00 

BOARD WITH 8085 & 8088 

GBT1612U Unkit $295.00 

GBT1612A Assem. & Tested $425.00 $399.00 

I/O BOARDS 
INTERFACER I 2 SERIAL I/O 



GBT133U 
GBT133A 



LIST 
PRICE 



Unkit 
AST 



$249.00 

INTERFACER II 
3 PARALLEL 1 SERIAL 



OUR 

PRICE 

$ 199.00 

$219.00 



GBT150U UNKIT 
GBT150A AST 



$249.00 



$199.00 
$219.00 



SAVE $ 239 



00 




ECONORAM XA 32K RAM 



Order No. 
GBT129A32 

■ 4MHz withZ80 
5 MHz with 8085 
Assembled and Tested 
S-100 Compatible 
Fully Static 
24 Bit Extended 
Addressing 



Reg. $689.00 

Sale Priced 

$450.00 



TRS-80/APPLE 

MEMORY EXPANSION KITS 
4116's RAMS 

q* from Leading manufacturers (j> 

/^(16Kx1 200/250ns) %% 

8for s 29 00 

ADD $3.00 FOR PROGRAMMING JUMPERS 
FOR TRS-80 KEYBOARD 

4116's 100 pes & UP $3.00 each 
1000 pes & UP $2.75 each 



MAINFRAMES 



From the power supply through the sturdy chassis, TEI 
constructs and assembles each mainframe with great 
care. Every TEI mainframe utilizes a constant voltage 
transformer (CVT) which delivers clean, regulated power 
at the proper level, reducing the heat in the computer 
cards. The output voltage on the transformer remains, 
nearly even with the input voltage varying from approx- 
imately 85V to 140V. This means the mainframe will never 
notice voltage variations or even a brownout. It also pro- 
vides 100 dB noise rejection to protect the computer from 
voltage spikes and line noise. 

S-100 MAINFRAMES 

TEI-MCS112 12 Slot Desk 
TEI-MCS 122 22 Slot Desk 
TEI-RM12 12SlotRackmount 

TE1-RM22 22SlotRackmount 

Shipping Weight: On 12 Slot Mainframes 
On 22 Slot Mainframes 

DUAL 8" DISK CABINETS 
TEIDFDO Desk Cabinet $675.00 $599.00 

TEIRFDO Rack Mount 820.00 749.00 

Include Money for Shipping on all Mainframes 

s.ioo@®^%> 

MOTHERBOARDS ^ 



LIST 


OUR 


PRICE 


PRICE 


$685.00 


S615.00 


SB45.D0 


S760.00 


S800.00 


$720.00 


S945.00 


$850.00 


35 Lbs 




50 Lbs 





GBT-153U 
GBT-153A 
GBT-154U 
GBT-154A 
GBT-155U 
GBT-155A 



UNKIT 6 SLOT 
A&T 6 SLOT 
UNKIT 12 SLOT 
A&T 12 SLOT 
UNKIT 20 SLOT 
A&T 20 SLOT 



LIST 
PRICE 



$129.00 



$214.00 



CCS-2810 Z80 CPU 
2/4 MHZ CPU W/Serial I/O 



CCS-2810 A&T 





J_ 



PRIORITY ONE ELECTRONICS 

16723 B ROSCOE BLVD. • SEPULVEDA, CA. 91343 

Terms: Visa. MC, BAC. Check, Money Order, U.S. Funds Only. CA residents add 6% sales tax, 
Minimum order $15.00 Prepaid U.S. orders less than $75.00 include 5% shipping and handling. 
MINIMUM $2.50. Excess refunded. Just in case ... please include your Dhone no. Prices subject to 
change without notice. We will do our best to maintain prices thru February 1981 
•SOCKET and CONNECTOR prices based on GOLD, not exceeding $700 per oz. 

'Sale Prices are for prepaid orders only credit card orders will be charged appropriate freight 




OUR 
PRICE 
$ 89.00 
$119.00 
$129.00 
$149.00 
$174.00 
$189.00 



DISK DRIVES, etc. 



^.Shugart 

SA801R 
SAL 



SHU-SA801R 
2 OR 




MORE 

Capacity 

Unlor matted 

Per Disk 

Per Track 
IBM Format 

Per Disk 

Per Track 
Transfer Rate 
Latency (average) 
Access Time 

Track to Track 

Average 

Setting Time 
Head Load Time 



395 



Single Density 

3.2 megabits 
41.7 kilobits 

2.0 megabits 
26.6 kilobits 
250 kilobits/sec. 
83 ms 

8 ms 

260 ms 

8 ms 

35 ms 



$41 O c 

00 

ea. 

Double Density 

6.4 megabits 
83.4 kilobits 

n/a 
n/a 
500 kiiobils/sec. 
83 ms 

8 ms 

260 ms 

8 ms 

35 ms 



CSM- 




"^ *>««*** 
California Computer Systems 
_J CCS2422A 
FLOPPY DISK CONTROLLER ,.„,..,.- __ 
WITH CP/M VERSION 2.2 $375.00 



LIST $400.00 

SALE 



IEEE S-100 CAMPATABLE SINGLE/DOUBLE DENSITY 
5VV78" DISK DRIVES 
SINGLE/DOUBLE HEADED 
ASSEMBLED & 
TESTED 




^ferbatim 



Sectoring 



Application 



Box of 10 



VRB-MD 525-01 
VRB-MD 525-10 
VRB-MD 525-16 
VRB-MD 577-01 
VRB-MD 577-16 
VRB-FD32-1000 
VRB-FD34-1000 



Soft Sector 
Hard 10 Sector 
Hard 16 Sector 
Soil Sector 
Hard 16 Sector 
Hard Sector 
Soft Sector 



TRS-80 Apple 
North Star 
Micropolis 
77 Track Cert 
77 Track Cert 
Shugarl 801 R 
IBM 3740 



S29.95 
$29.95 
S29.95 
S4B.D0 
S48.D0 
S37.00 
S37.00 



MICROPOLIS 




Thinker 
Tbys 



r*y m J»|* 



MICROPOLIS OVERSTOCK LIST 



DESCRIPTION LIST 

S-100 SUB-SYSTEMS 



MCP-1053-4 
MCP-1053-2 
MCP-1043-2 
MCP-1041-2 
MCP-1042-1 
MCP-1041-1 



1.2MB2HEADDUAL 

630 KB DUAL 

315 KB SINGLE 

315 KB SINGLE. NO PS 

143 KB SINGLE 

143-KB SINGLE. NO PS 



$2605.00 
$1895.00 
$1145.00 
$1045.00 
$795.00 
$695.00 



SALE 
PRICE 



S1395.D0 
S995.00 
S695.0D 
$639.00 
S625.00 
S595.00 



COMPLETE W/S 100 CONTROLLER. CABLES. 
MANUALS AND MICROPOLIS MDOS AND BASIC 

ADD-ON DRIVES 



MCP-1033-2 
MCP-1023-2 
MCP-1021-2 
MCP-1022-1 
MCP-1021-1 



630 KB DUAL 

315 KB SINGLE 

315 KB SINGLE. NO PS 

143 KB SINGLE 

143 KB SINGLE. NO PS 



$139500 
$645.00 
$545.00 
$545.00 
$445 00 



S895.00 
495.00 
S475.00 
5375.00 
S360.00 



REQUIRES ACCESSORY ADD-ON CABLES 



MCP-1027-1 
MCP-1037-1 
MCP-1027-2 
MCP-1037-2 



TRS-80® DISK DRIVES 

35 TRACK SINGLE $545.00 S299.95 

35 TRACK DUAL $1195.00 S695.00 

77 TRACK SINGLE $645.00 S439.00 

77 TRACK DUAL $1395.00 S795.00 



ACCESSORIES 



APP 395M NEW DOS/80 TRS-80" 

35 thru 77 
TRACK OPERATING 
SYSTEM 

PR1-34CEEE-2 Two Drive Data Cable 
PR1-34CEEE-4 Four Drive Data Cable 



SUPPLIED ON 

35 TRACK 77 TRACK 
$149.00 S159.00 

$29 95 



Thinker Tbys 

DISCUS M10 

10MB 8" HARD DISK DRIVE 

&S100 CONTROLLER 

WITH CP/M 2.2 



Capacity 

Unformatted 
Formatted 
Track Capacity 
Cylinder Capacity 

Recording Characteristics 
Recording Surfaces 
Heads per Surface 
Usable Tracks perSurface 
Track Density (per inch) 



THTM10S 10MB 8" 



11.7 megabytes 
10.0 megabytes 

12,000 bytes 
48,000 bytes 

4 

1 

244 

195 

LIST SALE 

PRICE PRICE 

$3695.00 $2995.00 



& 



PRIORITY ONE ELECTRONICS 

16723 B ROSCOE BLVD. • SEPULVEDA, CA. 91343 
Terms: Visa. MC. BAC. Check. Money Order. U.S. Funds Only. CA residents add 6% sales tax 

Minimum order $15.00 Prepaid U.S. orders less than $75.00 include 5% shipping and handling 
MINIMUM $2.50. Excess refunded. Just in case ... please include your phone no. Prices subject to 
change without notice. We will do our best to maintain prices thru February 1981. 
■SOCKET and CONNECTOR prices based on GOLD, not exceeding $700 per oz. 

'Sale Prices are (or prepaid orders only credit card orders will be charged appropriate freight 



^ 



DISCUS/2D™ 
DOUBLE DENSITY DISK SYSTEM 

Why not go all the way to the professional/industrial stan- 
dard of 600K byte/side disk memory with your S-100 
system? The new DISCUS/2D IM full-size, double-density 
floppy disk system is actually less expensive than many 
mini-floppy systems. 

And Thinker Toys'" hasn't just made full-size, double- 
density disk memory affordable .. .we've made it more 
functional. 

Thinker Toys'" has developed BASIC-VI" a virtual disk 
BASIC that lets you address all 600K bytes(expandableto 
1 megabyte) as if were main memory. The data format is 
soft-sectored and compatible with IBM's new System 34. 
And DISCUS/2D ,M accepts both single-density and dou- 
ble-density disks for complete flexibility in data storage. 

And DISCUS/2D' M is even more attractive because it's 
priced and delivered as a truly complete system. It's com- 
plete with all hardware. It's complete with all necessary 
software. And it's completely assembled, tested and 
warranted. 

Specifications: 
•CP/M V2. 2 standard 

• Plug compatible withShugart, Remex and Siemens 
single- or double-sided drives 

• Double/single-density capability utilizing MFM and FM 
data formats 

■ Western Digital 1791 LSI floppy disk controller chip 

• Uses 2K of S-100 address space: 

-1 K PROM with built-in disk drive and I/O utility 
subroutines incorporating memory mapped I/O 

— 1K 2114-3L 300 ns access time RAM for disk data 
offering and general purpose use 

• Starting address of memory space is 340:000 (E000 
hex) for compatibilitywith other popular ROM based 
systems 

■ Phase-locked data separator and crystal controlled 
disk data write precompensation capability to insure the 
highest standards of data integrity in double density 
mode. 

• Compatible with all 2 MHz and 4 MHz systems which 
conform with the proposed IEEE standard for the 
S-100 bus 

• 1602 UART with crystal-controlled baud-rate generator 

• Sixteen switch selectable baud rates from 50 to 19,200 
bits/second 

■ TTY current loop and industry standard RS232C serial 
interface 

• Power-on jump circuitry for automatic bootstrap loading 
from the disk drive 

■Powersupply requirements: + 8V@1200 ma; + 16V@ 
150 ma; -16V @ 70ma. u S ( Price SALE 

THT-02DS Single Drive. $1199. 00 $ 998.00 

THT-0200 Double Drive $1994.00 $1649.00 

THT-022S Single Drive $1545.00 S1298.00 

THT-0220 Double Drive $2740.00 S2295.00 

DISCUS 1 ^-v 

FULL-SIZE, SINGLE-DENSITY ( ] 

DISK MEMORY SYSTEM \f/ 

Specifications: Z 

Data Specifications and Formats 

■250, 000 byte capacity per standard 8" floppydiskette 

- Sofl-sectored IBM-compalible format: 77 tracks/26 
sectors pertrack/128 bytes per sector 

• Includes Disk/ATE'* disk operating system with integral 
monitor, assembler and text editor & BASIC-V advanced 
virtual disk BASIC capable of addressing up to 1 
megabyte 

• Software customized for SOL and Exidy available 

• Patches for CP/M" included 

• Optional CP/M* Microsoft BASIC, and FORTRAN 
available. List Price Our Price 

THT-D1S Single Drive $995.00 S950.00 

THT-D1D Dual Drive S1790.00 S1595.00 

DISCUS HD 26 MEGABYTES List Price SALE 

THT-M26S Subsystem $4995.00 S4095.D0 

THT-M26A Add-on hard disk drive $4995.00 S3995.00 

THT-M26HDC Hard disk controller S 695.00 

Shipping Weight: THT-M26S&A 50 lbs. 

Shipping Weight: THT-M26HDC 3 lbs. 



ORDER TOLL FREE 1-800-423-5633 ORDER TOLL FREE 1-800-423-5633 



Circle 318 on inquiry card. 



TEST EQUIPMENT 



<g*>HITACHI 

>t7 Hitachi Denshi. Ltd. 



Single and dual trace, 15 thru 100 MHz. All high sen- 
sitivity Hitachi oscilloscopes are built to demanding 
Hitachi quality standards and are backed by a 2-year 
warranty. They're able to measure signals as low as 
1mV/division (with X5 vertical magnifier). It's a 
specification you won't find on any other 15 or 30 MHz 
scopes. Plus: Z-axis modulation, trace rotation, front 
panel X-Y operation for all scope models, and X10 
sweep magnification. And, 30 thru 100 MHz 
oscilloscopes offer internal signal delay lines For ease 
of operation, functionally-related controls are grouped 
into three blocks on the color coded front panel. Now 
here's the clincher: For what you'd expect to pay more, 
you actually pay less. Check our scopes before you 
decide. All scopes complete with probes. 

Hitachi. ..The measure of quality. 
HITV302B 

List $995.00 
SALE $859.00 

■ TV sync-separater circuit 
High-sensivity 1mV/div 
(5MH2) 

Sweep-time magnifier 
(10 times) 
Z-axis input 
(intensity modulation) 
Signal delay line 
Complete will) 2 probes 
CHI, CH2, DUAL, ADD, 
DIFF. Vertical 
Deflection Modes 
X-Y operation 
Trace Rotation 

HITV152B DUAL TRACE 15MHZ (no delay) 
LIST $735.00 SALE $650.00 



30MHZ 

DUAL TRACE 

OSCILLOSCOPE 




#..i-'4-i4- 



HIT-V202 

20MHz DUAL TRACE 

LIST PRICE: $850 

OUR PRICE: S798.00 

■ Dynamic range 8 div. 

■ TV sync-separator circuit 
> Built-in signal delay line 

(V-352) 

' X-Y operalion 

1 Sweep-time magnilier 
(10 times) 

' Trace rotation system 

1 Fine-adjusting, click-position- 
ing (unction 

HITV550B DUAL TRACE 50MHZ 
VARIABLE DELAYED SWEEP $1745.00 

HITV1050 DUAL TRACE 100MHZ 

VARIABLE DELAYED SWEEP $2390.00 

FOR DETAILED INFORMATION SEE OUR 

60 PAGE DETACHABLE CATALOG IN NOV. BYTE 



HIT-V352 

35MHz DUAL TRACE 
WITH DELAY 

LIST PRICE: $1150.00 

OUR PRICE: S998.00 

Economically priced 
dual trace oscilloscope 
Square CRT wilh internal 
graticule (illuminated scale) 
High-accuracy voltage axis & 
time axis set at± 3% (certi- 
fied at 10° to 35°C) 
High-sensitivity ImV/div. 
Low drift 
2 Year Warranty 



[FLU K El 



® 




LOW COST 

MODEL |\mfmf)£ 

D804A: 4# 1*1 1*1 9 

Nine functions: 

dc voltage 

ac voltage 

dc current 

ac current 

resistance 

diode test 

conductance (1-R) 
b. logic level and 

continuity detect 
9. temperature (K-type 
thermocouple) 

• Peak hold on voltage 
and current functions 

• Selectable audible 
indicator for continuity 
or level detection 

■ 3V;-digit resolution 

• 0.1% basic accuracy 

• LCD display 

■ Overload protection 

• Safety designed 
test leads 

FLU-D800A <fu 

FLU-D802A (Funct 17, s 179 00 

FLU-D804A Fimrt .^ s 229 00 

FLU-D81 (RMS Bench 10A). . . . S 259°° 

FLU-D81 1 (RMS Bench w/Batt). . .299 
FOR ACCESSORIES, SEE OUR 60 PAGE 
DETACHABLE CATALOG IN THE NOV. BYTE 





— GSC- 2001 FUNCTION GENERATOR — 

• Sine, Square, Triangle • Separate TTL Output ■ 1HZ 
to .1 MHz* Vari-DC Offset • 100:1 Sweep ( ± 10V Input) 

• High, Low Level 600 ohms Vari-Outputs. 

list $186.00 SALE $165.00 




w GSC . 4001 DIGITAL PULSE GENERATOR •> 

■ Complement Output Pulse, Square Wave ■ 
Symetrical Square Wave • Variable Output 0.1 to 10V® 
50 ohms. • Drives 40 TTL Loads ■ Pulse Width, Spac- 
ing independently variable • Four Modes-Run, Trig- 
gered, Gated, One-Shot • Sync-Out Leads Main Output 
LIST $235.00 SALE $210.00 




_ GSC-6001 FREQUENCY COUNTER __ 

• 5Hz to 650MHz- 10MHz Crystal Oven timebase • Ex- 
ternal time base input • Selectable 0.1, 1.0, 10 Sec. gate 
■ Switchable low pass 50 KHz Filer • True TTL Com- 
patibility at input. ,_ . _ _ - .___ __ 

list $425 oo SALE $375.00 



PRIORITY ONE ELECTRONICS 

16723 B ROSCOE BLVD. • SEPULVEDA, CA. 91343 

Terms: Visa, MC, BAC, Check, Money Order, U.S. Funds Only. CA residents add 6% sales tax 
Minimum order $15.00 Prepaid U.S. orders less than $75.00 include 5% shipping and handling 
MINIMUM $2.50. Excess refunded. Just in case ... please include your phone no. Prices subject to 
change without notice. We will do our best to maintain prices thru February 1981. 
•SOCKET and CONNECTOR prices based on GOLD, not exceeding $700 per oz. 

"Sale Prices are for prepaid orders only credit card orders will be charged appropriate freight 




Global Specialties Corporation 

formerly Continental Specialties Corporation 




LP-1 LOGIC PROBE-Hand-held logic probe provides 
instant reading of logic levels for TTL. DTL, HTL or CMOS. 
Input Impedance: 100,000 Ohms. Min. Detectable 
Pulse: 50 ns. Max. Input Signal (Frequency): 10 MHz. 
Pulse Detector (LED): High speed train or single event. 
Pulse Memory: Pulse or level transition detected and 



stored. GSCLP1 LIST PRICE $50.00 SALE $45.00 

LP-2 LOGIC PROBE-Economy version of Model LP-1, 
Safer than a voltmeter. More accurate than a scope. Input 
Impedance: 300,000 Ohms. Min. Detectable Pulse: 300 
ns. Max. Input Signal (Frequency): 1.5 MHz. Pulse De- 
tector (LED): High speed train or single event. Pulse 
Memory: none. GSCLP2 _ Art _ nn 

LIST PRICE $28.00 SALE $25.00 
GSLP3— High speed logic probe. Captures pulses as 
short as 10 ns. Input Impedance: 500,000 Ohms. Mini- 
mum Detectable Pulse: 6 ns. Max. Input Signal (Fre- 
quency): 60 MHz. Pulse Detector (LED): High speed 
train or single event. Pulse Memory: Pulse or level transi- 
tion detected and stored, GSCLP3 

LIST PRICE $77.00 SALE $69.00 

GSC DIGITAL PULSER 

The ultimate in speed and ease of operation. Simply con- 
nect clip leads lo positive and negative power, then touch 
DP-1's probe to a circuit node; automatic polarity sensor 
detects circuit's high or low condition. Depress the push- 
button and trigger an opposite polarity pulse into the cir- 
cuit. Fast, troubleshooting includes injecting signals at key 
points in TTL, DTL, CMOS or other popular circuits. Test 
with single pulse or 100 pulses per second via built-in dual 
control pushbutton button selects single shot or continu- 
ous modes. LED indicator monitors operating modes by 
flashing once for single pulse or continuously for a pulse 
train. Completely automatic, probe-size lab/field pulse 
generator for any family of digital circuits, Output: Tri- 
state. Polarity: Pulse-sensing auto-polarity. Sync and 
Source: 100 mA. Pulse Train: 100 pps. LED Indicator: 
Flashes for single pulse, stavs lit for pulse train. 

GSCDPI ... $B3.oo SALE $75.00 





Trace signals through all types of digital circuits. Unit clips 
over any DIP IC up to 16 pins. Each of its 16 contacts 
connects to a single-bit level detector that drives a high- 
intensity, numbered LED readout activated when the ap- 
pliedvoltageexceedsa fixed 2 V threshold. Logic "1" turns 
LED on; logic "0" keeps LED off. A power-seeking gate 
networks automatically locates supply leads and feeds 
them to the LM-1's internal circuitry. Saves minutes, even 
hours in design troubleshooting, debugging of equipment. 
Voltage Threshold: 2 V ±0.2 V. Input Impedance: 
100,000 Ohms. Input Voltage Range: 4-15 V max. across 
any two or more inputs. Current Drain: 200 mA at 10 V. 
Size: 4" I x 2" w. x 1.75" d. when open. Weight: 3 ozs. 

GSCLMI seo.oo SALE $54.00 

GSC LOGICAL ANALYSIS KITS 



GSC Model LTC-1 Logical Analysis Kit— Complete with 
LP-1 logic Probe, DP-1 Logic Pulser, LM-1 Logic Monitor, 
wiring accessories, manuals and molded case. . $220.00 

SALE S189.00 

GSC Model LTC-2 Logical Analysis Kit— For high-speed 
and memory analysis. Same as Model LTC-1 , except sub- 
stitutes LP-3 High-Speed Logic Probe S250.00 

SALE $215.00 



ORDER TOLL FREE (800) 423 5633 



MICROPOLIS" PRICE BREAKTHROUGH 

=E TRS-80ADD 

ON 5 1 / 4 " DISK 

FROM MICROPOLIS THE WORLDS LARGEST 

MANUFACTURER OF HIGH DENSITY 5 1 A" 

FLOPPY DISK DRIVES 




Now at an incredibly low price, you "can "add the 
Micropolis MCP1027M1 floppy disk drive to your 
TRS-80' computer. The MCP1027M1 in fully plug com- 
palable wilh the TRS-80* expansion interface floppy 
disk output. 

SIMPLE INSTALLATION 

Simply plug the MCP1027M1 inlo your data cable, 
and your on-line. There is no need to worry about for- 
mat compatability. Your TRS-80* 35 track 5V«" floppy 
disk programs will operate identically on the 
MCP1027M1. Compatability doesn't end here. 
Micropolis has even matched the colors of the 
MCP1027M1 to theTRS-80". 

WHAT'S A LITTLE TECHNICAL 

SUPERIORITY AMONG 

FRIENDS? 

Anyone can cut price by cutting out capacity or 
valuable features. But there's no long term advantage 
in it. Not for the user. Or the builder. 

Micropolis takes a better approach, even though it's 
harder, using advanced design to provide more 
capability while also lowering cost. 

For example, most 5 1 /j-inch floppy disks cut costs 
by using a cheap, less accurate plastic cam or cam 
follower to position the read/write head. Most 8-inch 
floppy disks use a better approach, with a rolled steel 
lead screw for this function. 




We go them one betterand use an all-steel system, 
with a precision-ground steel lead screw and steel 
follower. It costs more but gives us greater storage 
capacity with lower cost per thousand bytes. Not so 
incidentally, our steel construction (compared to 
plastic) significantly increases reliability, too. There's 
even a built-in File Protect feature that prevents ac- 
cidental loss of valuable data. (A file protected 
diskette cannot be written on.) 

Heat can cause numerous read and write errors that 
can become hazardous to your data. The major heat 
producing power supply components are mounted to 
alarge heat sink, external to thecabinet, by the power 
switch and fuse (located at the rear of the cabinet). 
This design is to assure that the drive components are 
kept as cool as possible to assure reliable data 
recovery. 

MICROPOLIS 
BUILDS 'EM RIGHT 

Reliability just can't happen, and it can't be pasted 
on latter. Micropolis knew you had to have it, so they 
designed it in. Micropolis builds it in every day. Just 
because Micropolis drives are economical doesn't 
mean they're cheap. 

To save unnecessary wear and tear on the diskette, 
Micropolis included an automatic deselection feature 
which relieves head pressure on the recording surface 
when the disk isn't in use. This produces longer 
operating life: more than 10° passes on one track. 

When unloading, the diskette is ejected 
automatically. Just pull it out. 

To cap it all, disk speed is independent of any fluc- 
tuation in line frequency. 

It all adds up to solid operation, year after year. 




The Heart of your Micropolis TRS-80* 
add on drive. 

EXPERIENCE 

How can Micropolis offer so much for so little? No 
need to visit the oracle at Delphi. The Micropolis 
secret is simple. Micropolis is the only disk system 
builder who is completely integrated in manufactur- 
ing. Drawing on the experience gained in producing 
over 100,000 units; Micropolis is able to design and 
build a drive of superior performance. 

This total integration means Micropolis controls 
everything from beginning to end. The result is a bet- 
ter drive for you, backed by a full 120 day factory 
guarantee. 

YOU'RE IN GOOD COMPANY 

As an individual, you can't help but wonder when you 
spend your hard earned money. Have you made the 
proper choice? With so many drives in the 
marketplace, and so few hard facts available to the in- 
dividual, how can you make an intelligent decision? 
One way is to see which drives the large system 
manufactures and OEM's rely on. Companies like 
Commondore, Exidy, Harris, and Vector Graphics de- 
pend on Micropolis for years of reliable performance. 
That is one reason why International Computers Ltd., 
has recently signed a $20 million dollar contract for 
Micropolis disk drives. Years from now, you can look 
back and know you made the best choice: 
MICROPOLIS. 



Disk drives being assembled 
for delivery to Priority 1 Electronics 

INCREDIBLE 
PURCHASING POWER 

Priority One Electronics, the worlds largest stock- 
ing distributor of Micropolis disc drives was able to 
negotiate a special price for the MCP1027M1 when we 
committed to buy an entire production run. The 
MCP1027M1 is a good buy at the list price of $545.00. 
The MCP1027M1 is an excellent buy at our sale price 

$279.00 

Now all that remains is for you to take advantage of 
this truly incredible buy, while the supply lasts. 
Credit card buyer call toll free 

(800) 423-5633 except 

CAAK HI call (21 3) 894-8171 

or if you prefer use the coupon below. 





*TRS-80 is a registered TM of Tandy Corp. u 



(800)423-5633 (213)894-8171 

Priority One Electronics 

V»2 16723 Roscoe Blvd. • Sepulveda, CA 91343 

Please send me the following items: 

MCP1027-1 Micropolis TRS-80™ Ad on drive $279.00* 

APP395 New DOS 80 operating system $149.00 

VRBMD52501 Box of 10 Verbatim diskettes $ 29.95 

MMM744-0 Box of 10 Scotch diskettes $ 39.95 

VRBFD05 Head Cleaning Kit $ 29.95 

PR134CEEE-2 2 drive data cable $ 29.95 

PR134CEEE-4 4 drive data cable $ 39.95 

n lhaveenclosed acheck ormoneyorder Sub 

(6% C A only) Tax 

Bill my □ VISA, D MASTERCHARGE Shipping $2.50 

CreditCard# TOTAL 

Exp. Date ■ Signature 

Name 

Address 

City State Zip 

'These sale prices are for PREPAID U.S. orders only. Credit card orders will be charged appropriate freight. On 

approval, purchase orders for the MCP1027-1 will be accepted at $379.00, FOB Sepulveda, CA. 

BY8101 Good thru Feb. 81 



Circle 319 on inquiry card. 



Best Price and Delivery 



SUPERBRAIN by Intertec 




'''.-■'' 



Self contained computer wilh dual disks and 
two RS232C pons Complete with CP M 2 2 
and BASIC 60C0C 

32K Double Density. List $2995 . YtDOO 

64K Doublfi Density, List $3345 $2883 

6<JK MimrVncroMart upgraded 
to Quart Density . . SPECIAL $3395 

VIDEO TERMINALS 

A/£W EMULATOR (Intertec). List $895$749 
NEW INTERTUBE IIIList $895 , ONLY $749 
SOROC 120. List $995 SPECIAL $ 729 

IQ140, List $1495 SPECIAL $1149 

PERKIN-ELMER 550. List $997 $ 799 

with anti glare screen, $1027 $ 829 

HAZELTINE 1410, List $900 $ 749 

1420 $ 849 

1500, List $1225 $ 879 

1510, List $1395 $1089 

1520, List $1650 $1389 

ADDS R-20. List $995 $ 945 

LEAR SIEGLER ADM3A, Assembled $ 849 

TELEVIDEO 912C, List $950 . . Call for 

920C, List $1030 prices 

PRINTERS 

ANADEX DP 8000 $ 849 

DP-9500, List $1650 $1399 

DP-9501. List $1650 JI399 

PAPER TIGER IDS-440, List $995 $695 

w graphics op., incl. buffer, $1195 . . $879 

NEW IDS PAPERTIGER 460 List 1295 S1 149 

NEW IDS PAPERTIGER 460G List $1394 $1199 

NEC Spinwriters Call for Price 

TELETYPE 43 KSR $1087 

CENTRONICS 
7J0 1 parallel interface ... NE rW LOW $649 
737 parallel interlace SUPER VALUE $829 
779 w Tractor, List $1350 NFW 

702 w Tractor, VFU, List $2480 , !: ** 

703 w Tractor, VFU, List $2975 L0W 

704 w Tractor, VFU, List $2350 PRICES 

Tl 810 Basic. List $1895 $1695 

810 serial & Centronics style 

parallel interlace. List $1940 $1735 

810 w full ASCII IU LC), Vertical 

Forms Control, Compressed Print . . $1895 

Tl 820 KSR, List $2165 $1895 

TI745w full ASCII, List $1695 $1399 

COMPRINT 912 w parallel interface . $ 559 

912 w serial inter-face. List $699 $ 589 

AXIOM IMP I $ 699 

MICROTEK. List $750 $ 675 

OKIDATA Microline 80, List $949 649 

Tractor Feed Option $ 99 

RS232 Serial Interface $ 89 



NORTH STAR HORIZON" 

HORIZON 1 ASSEMBLED & TESTED 

32K, Double Density, List $2695 $2279 

32K, Quad Density, List $2995 ....... $2539 

HORIZON 2 ASSEMBLED & TESTED 

32K, Double Density, List $3095 $2619 

32K, Quad Density. List $3595 $3049 

48K, Double Density, List $3590 $3039 

48K, Quad Density, List $4090 $3469 

64K, Double Density, List $3830 $3239 

64K, Quad Density, List $4330 $3669 



FLOPPY DISK SYSTEMS 

NORTH STAR MDS A 
Assembled, List $899 SPECIAL $ 719 

Kit Version, List $799 $ 669 

MORROWTHINKERTOYS" Discus2D. 

List S1 199 OUR PRICE $1019* 

Discus2D, dual drive, List $1994 $1694* 

Discus 2 • 2. A&T, List $1549 $1319* 

Dual Discus 2 . 2, A&T, List $2748 . . . $2335* 
"Now includes CP M" 2.2 
MICROMATION Megabox, DD w 

8" drives, 1 -megabyte, List $2295 $1949 

2 megabyte, List $3095 $2629 

MICROPOLIS 1041 MacroFloppy" 
w enclosure (no P.S.I, List $695 . $ 625 

1042 MacroFloppy w case & AC PS. . $ 709 
1053 Dual MetaFloppy' , List $1895 . . . $1695 



VIDEO BOARDS 

I/O Mapped 
SD COMPUTER VDB-8024, kit, List $370 $3191 

Assembled, List $470 $ 399 1 

XITEX SCT-100K, Kit ONLY $154.95 

SCT 100A Assembled $174.95 

SSM VB2 I/O. Kit, List $199 Call 

Assembled & Tested. List S269 Call 

Memory Mapped 
SSM VB1C, 16x64, Kit, List $179 

Assembled & Tested, List $242 
SSM VB3.80 Char ,4MHz,Kit, List S48.' Call 

4 MH;, A&T, List $565 Call 

INTERSYSTEMS, 16x64, A&T, List $165 $149 



ESCON CONVERSION 
FOR IBM SELECTRIC 

Complete w microprocessor controller find 
power supply. Factory built User installs 
solenoid assembly or it can be done at Escon 
factory at nominal cost. 
Parallel (TBS 80, Sorcerer, etc.), $575 $514 
RS232 Standard Serial, List $599 ... 534 

IEEh-<»88 (for PET). List $660 584 

TRS 80 Cable 25 



CALIFORNIA COMPUTER SYSTEMS 

280 CPU BOARDS List S299 $269 

DISK CONTROLLER 2422 L.st $399 . . $359 

32 CASE STATIC List $710 $599 

64K DYNAMIC BDARD List $699 $589 



CPU BOARDS 

(assembled unless noted I 
NORTH STAR Z80A (ZPB A Ai. $299 $254 
CROMEMCO 4 MHz IZPU Wi. List $395 $335 

4 MHz (SCC W), List $450 5382 

INTERSYSTEMS (formerly Ithaca Audio) 

new Series II Z 80. 4 MHz. List $395 . $349 
SSM CB1 8080 A&T List $252 

CB1A Kit. List S183 

CB2Z 80 A&T. List S344 

CB2 Kit, List S26J 

DELTA Z 80. w'th I C $289 

SD SBC 100. List $350 $298 

SBC 100 Kit, List $295 $250 

SBC 200. List $400 $332 

SBC 200 Kit. List $320 $272 

MEMORY BOARDS 



32K SD ExpandoRAM Kit 
ONLY $289 T 

ONLY$189without RAM chips 



NORTH STAR 16K Dynamic RAM Boarrt. 

A&T (RAM 16 A A). List $499 $420 

16K Kit Version, List $449 . , . SPECIAL $299 

32K A&T (RAM 32 A), List $/39 $620 

32K Kit, List $669 SPECIAL $499 

CROMEMCO 16KZ-W, List $495 $419 

64KZ W, List $1795 1485 

MEASUREMENT SYSTEMS & CONTROLS 

(Guaranteed performance, incl labor parts 1 yrl 
DM6400 64K Board w all 64K, $795 . . . $659 

DM4800 with 48K. List $695 $589 

DM3200 with 32K. List $595 $509 

DMB6400 64K Board w all 64K $859 

DMB4800 with 48K $789 

MORROW SuperRAM all static, all A&T 

16K. 4 MHz or 2 MHz, List $349 $299 

32K, 4 MHz, List $699 $629 

16K Memory Master, List $399 $339 

24K Memory Master, List $549 ....... $465 

INTERSYSTEMS (formerly Ithaca Audiol 

8K Static 2 MHz, A&T. List $165 $149 

8K Static 4 MHz. A&T. List $195 $176 

16K Static 2 MHz, A&T, List $475 ... $427 
16K Static 4 MHz, A&T, List $495 . . $445 
64K Dynamic, List $995 $895 

CALIFORNIA COMPUTER 
16K Static. A&T, List $349.95 $259 

FLOPPY DISK 
CONTROLLER BOARDS 

NORTH STAR, DD. 

Assembled, List $499 $399 

MORROW Disk Jockey 1, A&T ($213) . $189 

Disk Jockey 2D, A&T, List $479 $429 

SD Versafloppy 1, Kit, List $250 $2121 

Versafloppy II, DD Kit, List $350 $297 1 

Versafloppy II, DD, A&T. List $430 $365 t 

DELTA double density A&T ($385) $345 

CONDUCTOR, double density A&T . . . $269 

INTERSYSTEMS FDC-2, A&T, $495 . . . $439 

MICROMATION Doubler, DD, A&T . . . $399 

TARBELL Floppy Disk Interlace Kit $199 

double density, A&T, List $495 . $444 



NEW CROMEMCO 

DOUBLE DENSITY 

DISK CONTROLLER 

List $595 OUR PRICE $505 



SHIPPING AND INSURANCE Add $2 50 lor boards. $6toi Selectnc Convener or Floppy Disk Drives, $7 bO lor Floppy D<s« Syslems. $l5lor Horizon SHIPPED FREIGHT COLLECT SupetBntir 
anri t i nrintorc rnn ia< us for shinnma information on other Inrmiruils and printers. 



Centronics 



and T, I. printers. Con tat us for shipping mlorniation on other terminals and prm 



Above prices re 



i Lon iai us for snip piny it iiurn itiuuii un uinci iwniuiaia ™«j m< ■■ ■ «*•■ >»■ 

fled a 2% cash discount lorder prepaid prior to shipmenl) Add 2% lo prices for credi: card meters C.O.D.'s. etc. Prices are subject to change and otters subiecl to withdrawal wm-.oul nonce 

- WRITE FOR FREE CATALOG - 

MiniMicroMart, Inc. 



Circle 320 on inquiry card. 



1618 James Street. Syracuse NY 13203 (315) 422 4467 TWX 710-541-0431 



Terminals and Printers! 



TELEVIDEO TVI-912C 



SOROC 



TI-810 




Upper and lower case, 15 baud rates: 75 to 
19,000 baud, dual intensity, 24 x 80 character 
display, 12 x 10 resolution. Numeric pad. Pro- 
grammable reversfble video, auxiliary port, 
self-test mode, protect mode, block mode, 
tabbing, addressable cursor. Microprocessor 
controlled, programmable underline, line and 
character insert/delete. "C" version features 
typewriter-style keyboard . List $950 

OUR PRICE' CALL 

920C (with 11 function keys, 6 edit keys and 
2 transmission mode keys. List $1030 

CALL 
Intertec 

EMULATOR 

Software compatible with a Soroc IQ-120, 
Hazeltine 1500, ADM-3A or DEC VT-52. Fea- 
tures block mode transmission and printer port; 
12" anti-glare screen; 18-key numeric keypad; 
full cursor control. List $895 

OUR PRICE S749 




NEW INTERTUBE III 

List $995 ONLY $749 

12" display, 24 x 80 format, 18-key numeric 
keypad, 128 upper/lower case ASCII charac- 
ters. Reverse video, blinking, complete cursor 
addressing and control. Special user-defined 
control function keys, protected and unpro- 
tected fields. Line insert/delete and character 
insert/delete editing, eleven special line draw- 
ing symbols. 



IQ-120 

List $995 

SPECIAL 




IQ-140 List $1495 
SPECIAL $1149 



HAZELTINE 



1500 
ONLY 

$879 



1410 w/numeric keypad. List $900 $749 

1420 w/lower case and numeric pad .... 849 

1510, List $1395 1089 

1520, List $1650 1389 



NEC SPINWRITER ™ 




Terminal/ Keyboard as well as 

RO Printer Only models available. 

CALL FOR PRICES! 

CENTRONICS 

PRINTERS 

NEW 730, parallel, friction, tractor . . . $649 

NEW 737 parallel, friction, tractor $829 

779-2 w/tractor (same as TRS-80 Line 

Printer I), List $1350 _ 

702 120 cps, bi-direct., tractor, VFU .... Nfcw 

703 185 cps, bi-direct., tractor, VFU .... LOW 

704 RS232 serial version of 703, $2350 . . PRICES 





TI-810 Basic Unit, $1895 . ONLY $1695 
TI-810 w/full ASCII (Lower case), vertical 

forms control, and compressed print . $1895 
TI-745 Complete printing terminal 
with acoustic coupler, List $1695 .... $1399 



PAPER TIGER 

1 ft 




IDS-440 Paper Tiger, List $995. $695 

w/graphics option, incl. buffer, $1194 . . $789 
TRS-80 cable 45 

NEW IDS PAPERTIGER 460List S1295 . S1 149 

NEW IDS PAPERTIGER 460G List S1394 S1 199 

NEW IDS 460 

QUALITY PRINTING AT MATRIX 

SPEED-LOGIC SEEKING 

PROPORTIONAL SPACING 

w/auto text justification 

RNRD€X 

OP9500/DP9501 PRINTERS 



S1399 
SI 399 



ONLY $649 



DP-9500. List S1650 
DP-9501. List S1650 

OKIDATA 
Microline80 

Tractor Feed Option $99 

Serial interface $89 

AXIOM IMP I $699 

COMPRINT 912 w/parallel interf. $559 
912 w /serial interface, List $699 $589 

MICROTEK, List $750 $675 

ANADEX 80-Col. Dot Matrix $849 

Above prices reflect a 2% cash discount (order prepaid prior to shipment). Add 2% to prices for credit 
card orders, C.O.D.'s, etc. Prices are f.o.b. shipping point. Prices are subject to change and offers 
subject to withdrawal without notice. WRITE FOR FREE CATALOG. 



MiniMicroMart, Inc. 



1618 James Street, Syracuse NY 13203 (315) 422-4467 twx 710 541-0431 




Circle 321 on inquiry card. 



Unclassified Ads 



UNCLASSIFIED POLICY: Readers who are soliciting or giving advice, or who have 
equipment to buy, sell or swap should send in a clearly typed notice to that effect. To be 
considered for publication, an advertisement must be clearly noncommercial, typed double 
spaced on plain white paper, contain 75 words or less, and include complete name and 
address information. , 

These notices are free of charge and will be printed one time only on a space available 
basis. Notices can be accepted from individuals or bona fide computer users clubs only . We 
can engage in no correspondence on these and your confirmation of placement is ap- 
pearance in an issue of BYTE. 

Please note that it may take three or four months for an ad to appear in the magazine. 



FOR SALE: Heath H-11A: 32 K bytes, assembled, serial 
and parallel interfaces, high-speed paper-lape punch/ 
reader, and extended arithmetic chip, Everything for 
$1600. Chris Martin, 604 S Remington, Anglelon TX 
77515, (713) 424-1900 evenings. 

FOR SALE: KIM-SI board; $175, 8 K programmable 
memory; $125, CRT controller board TH3216 (32 by 16); 
$175. All working, Canadian funds, postage paid in 
Canada. Will sell to first arrived. Denis Beauregard, 2425 
rue-Saint-Antoine, Lachine Quebec, H8S 1V9 Canada. 

FOR SALE: SwTPC 6600 with 36 K programmable 
memory, MF-68 dual minifloppy, PR-40 printer, four 
parallel and one serial I/O ports. Price negotiable. Ken 
Staton, POB 10490, Stanford CA 94305, (415) 329-9888. 

FOR SALE: Three S-100 8 K static memory boards. They 
have been in use for over one year without a memory er- 
ror. Two are Godbout and one is a ProcessorTech 8KRA. 
$125 each or $325 for all three. Jerry Bass, 2326 Piatt Dr, 
Martinez CA 94553, (415) 445-2435. 



FOR TRADE: Diablo Hytype I multistrike ribbons (recy- 
cled, 37 ea) and new 8-inch floppy disks. Will trade one 
for one for 5-inch floppy disks. Prefer BASF, DYSAN, or 
Scotch (no Verbatim). Paul Holliday, 4807 Arlene St, San 
Diego CA 92117. 

FOR SALE: Polymorphic Systems 8813. An S-100, 
8080A-based system with keyboard, 9-inch monitor, and 
dual single-sided drives. Confidence package and Word- 
master text editor included. John D Flynn, POB 563, East 
Longmeadow MA 01028, (413) 525-3981. 

FOR SALE: BPI Business General Ledger Package for 
Commodore PET. Original, complete with manual and 
instruction booklet. Robert O Williams, 9949 Hawley Rd, 
El Cajon CA 92021, (714) 561-4397. 

FOR SALE: Two WHA-11-16 16 K by 16-bit memory 
boards for H-11A or LSI-11. Perfect working condition; 
making room for disk controller. $350 each. G W 
Schreyer, 412 N Maria, Redondo Beach CA 90277, (213) 
376-9348, 



FOR SALE: BYTE #1 thru December 1978. Also, extra 
copy of #1. PerSci 1070 disk controller and INFO 2000 
S-100 adapter card. Best offers. Scott Crumpton, 233 
Space Sciences Research Bldg, University of Florida, 
Gainesville FL 32611. 

FOR SALE: Anderson Jacobson AJ 841 I/O printer- 
terminal. IBM Selectric mechanism. 130 ch/line. New. 
Plus, Apple parallel-printer interface card. $750. Virginia 
Stern, 215 E 11 St, New York NY 10003,(212)477-6634. 

WANTED: I am interested in contacting computerists 
who are doing advanced forecasting on both stock and 
commodity markets, I retired early and have done very 
well in speculation through system approach. Ted 
Broder, POB 407, Flushing NY 11363. 

FOR SALE: Hazeltine 1500 terminal. Brand new and 
unused. Unopened in original carton. $1000 plus ship- 
ping. Bill Leeson, 1546 Becklow Ave, Baltimore MD 
21220, (301) 574-4797 evenings, (301) 628-4173 days. 

FOR SALE: High-speed paper-tape punch. 120 
character/second Tally Model P-120A. Includes manual 
and Whiteford Laboratory Model P1-12A paper-tape 
winder. $150 for everything. Richard A Libby, 505 
Cascade, Richland WA 99352, (509) 946-7341. 

FOR SALE: A reliable S-100 computer in a solid oak 
cabinet. Partial component list of the computer is: Z80 
processor (2 MHz), 52 K programmable memory, 8 K 
erasable-programmable read-only memory, PerSci flop- 
py disk and controller, cassette and PPT I/O, video 
display, Memory Map Video, Dazzler, 40-column printer, 
and much more. Extensive software library and 
documentation included. All for $4200. Write for detailed 
description. Robert Alkire, 220 E Hellman Ave, Monterey 
Park CA 91754. 



The Sight 
of Musk 




Digital Harmony 

by John Whitney 



BYTE BOOKS is pleased to offer DIGITAL HARMONY a 

major new work by John Whitney, a pioneer of the special effects 
technology used in STAR WARS and 200 1: A SPACE 

ODYSSEY. His book explores the special union of music and 
computer graphics, and expands the frontier between sight and 
sound, synthesizing the two to create a new art form. Whitney tells 
how it's done, provides a thorough theoretical background, and in- 
cludes listings and programs for those interested in joining in the 
discovery of this new art form. DIGITAL HARMONY lays the 
foundation for audio-visual art made possible by microcomputers. It 
is must reading for all art, music and home computer enthusiasts. 

Illustrated in Color. 



382 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



ISBN 07-0700 I 5-X 
Price S2L95 



Please remit in U.S. funds 



>r draw on a U.S. Bank 

Please send D copies of 

Digital Harmony 



Company 



Street 



City 



State/Province 



D Check enclosed in the amount ot $_ 
□ Bill Visa D Bill Master Charge 

Card No. 

Exp. Dace . 



Add 75c per book to co 
postage and handling. 



Available in January 



KUTE 

K1IVS 



Call TOLL FREE: 800-258-5420 
or Mail To: 



70 Main Street, 
Peterborough. N.H. 034S8 



FOR SALE: Dr. Dobb's Reference Journal, Vol I, $10. Basic 
Computer Games by Dave Ahl, $6. Basic Software Library, 
R W Brown, Vol I, $15. Scelbi's three volumes: 8080 
Editor, Assembler, and Monitor with hexadecimal and oc- 
tal listings and full discussion of programs and their 
use, $15. Add $1 shipping for each book or take all for 
$45 postpaid. R Mendelson, 27 Somerset PI, Murray Hill 
NJ 07974. 

FOR SALE: Centronics 101A 165 cps printer. $400. 
Parallel interface. Logic board #2 needs repair or 
replacement. Bill Webb, 180 Winard Ave, Sellersville PA 
18960, (215) 257-1161. 

FOR SALE: 32 K Exidy Sorcerer computer; $685. SD 
VR8024 video board; $295. S-100 mainframe, 28 A power 
supply; $245. SSM VB1B video board; $100. Hank, (714) 
245-5054 weekends or evenings after 9 PM. 

FOR SALE: Rockwell AIM-65: 4 K programmable 
memory, BASIC and Assembler read-only memories. 
Power supply and case. One-year-old; $550. Greg Cran- 
dall, (213)991-7871. 

FOR SALE: IMSAI 80B0A mainframe, fully loaded with 
North Star 280 processor and MDS single-density 
minifloppy. 44 K of programmable memory. Cromemco 
TV-Dazzler color graphics. Processor Tech VDM-1 video 
board and 3P + S I/O board. All documentation and over 
thirty disks of software. Working well for over three 
years. Best offer over $2500 takes it. Will not unbundle. 
Tom Gantner, 233 Woodbourne Dr, St Louis MO 63105. 

FOR SALE: Compucolor II: Model 5 (32 K programmable 
memory), 117-key keyboard, two disk drives, Soundware 
audio, game paddles, programming manual, 
maintenance manual, and more than $500 in software. 
Many games and utilities. Everything in excellent condi- 
tion. Pete Pacione, 2952 N Meade, Chicago IL 60634, 
(312) 889-2674. 

NEEDED: I want to know Loglan. I want learning aids, 
Loglan pen pals, or address of the Loglan Institute. Bob 
Peterson, Apt 1203, 525 E Semoran Blvd, Fern Park FL 
32730. 

FOR SALE: Jade Big Z Z80A processor for S-100 bus. 
Fully assembled; will sell for $110. Doug Kelley, 3312 
Mae Dr, Warren OH 44481,(216)824-3113. 

FOR SALE: Printer: 165 cps, excellent condition, 
variable character size, double-width characters, 
graphics can be added, same mechanism as the IDS 
printers; $399. S Levine, 1802 Melville St, Ocean NJ 
0771 2, (201) 531-8305 after 6 PM. 

WANTED: 6502 macro cross assembler program that 
runs on 6800 or 6809 machines. Must have good 
documentation. J L Peterson, 7150 N Terra Vista #704, 
Peoria IL 61614. 



FOR SALE: IBM Selectric II (Micro Computer Devices, 
Selecterm, system 9710) interfaced for the SOL-20. This 
Selectric is loaded with all the options. It has tractor 
feed, dual pitch, V 2 backspace, self-correction, and soft- 
ware for a North Star drive. Best offer. Joe Lancaster, 
1931 Cedar Ridge Dr #18, Stockton CA 95207, (209) 
957-7018. 

FOR SALE: Intersil IM-6101 programmable interface ele- 
ment. Compatible with the IM-6100 microcomputer, the 
PIE provides control signals to peripheral devices for 
reading or writing on the DX bus by activating the write 
and read control lines with input/output transfer instruc- 
tions. Excellent like-new condition. Asking $1500. Glenn 
Cardinal, (914) 471-9500. 

FOR SALE OR TRADE: IMSAI single-board 8048 EROM 
computer(kit)for$395, cost $499; IMSAI 3 A, 5 V power 
supply for 8048 single-board computer (never used) for 
$75, cost $99; IMSAI programmable memory (kit form) 
for $110, cost $149; or will trade for a video terminal. 
George Kimble, 203 Eleventh St, Genoa OH 43430,(419) 
855-7743 days, (419) 855-4082 evenings. 

WANTED: Would like to exchange TRS-80 newsletters 
with other user groups. I want to exchange the data on 
disks so I will not need to rekey info. If you know of a 
group that does newsletters exchange on disk, please 
let me have their mailing address so I can contact them. 
Also, give them my address so they can contact me. S80 
userNEWSLETTER, POB 28355, Columbus OH 43228. 

FOR SALE: Apple II+ (48 K), DOS 3.3, disk with con- 
troller, all manuals, Sanyo B & G 12-Inch monitor, Videx 
80-column board, Hayes mlcromodem, Qume 5/45 
printer, seriai l/F card, RF modulator, Easy Writer profes- 
sional word processing system, Apple Dow Jones 
Evaluator, Data Capture software. All purchased new on 
1 1/7/80. $6000 or best offer. Whitley Strieber, 300 E 75th 
St, New York NY 10021, (212) 744-5603. 

FOR SALE: HP-67 calculator with standard pack, math 
pack, manuals, soft leather and plastic cases, and 
security cradle. All in excellent condition. Best offer. 
Mark Bellon, 20 Elliot Ave, Centereach NY 11720, (516) 
585-5530. 

FOR SALE: Commodore PET with 24 K bytes of memory, 
library of purchased programs, and vinyl cover. $595. 
Richard Wiesenthal, 145 Central Park W, New York NY 
10023,(212)874-0190. 

FOR SALE: Used Texas Instruments Silent 700 portable 
terminal, Model 745. Purchase price last yearwas $1600. 
Available now for $900. A G Fromuth, (603) 625-2932. 

FOR SALE OR TRADE: Digital Group Z80 computer 
(26 K), dual Phi-Decks, Printer B, extra I/O board, lots of 
software (including Manuscrlptor by MicroWorks and 
Sargon); $1500 or will trade for Apple. Mark Weber, 6515 
Wydown, Box 3812, Clayton MO 63105,(314) 863-7026. 



BOMB 


Onaoina Moniti 


or Box 

Author(s) 


BYTE's 

Article ft Page 


Article 


1 


30 


Radio Shack's Daisy Wheel Printer II 


Kola 


2 


36 


An Extremely Low-Cost Computer Voice 








Response System 


Anderson 


3 


44 


A Computer-Controlled Tank 


Ciarcia 


4 


68 


A Beginner's Guide to Spectral Analysis, Part 1 


Zimmermann 


5 


96 


Infinite BASIC and Infinite Business 


Mitchell 


6 


106 


A Pascal Library Unit for the Micromodem II 


Woteki 


7 


142 


Dynamic Memory: Making an Intelligent Decision 


Malakoff 


8 


152 


Stacking Strings in FORTH 


Cassady 


9 


164 


Articulate Automata 


Fons and 
Gargagliano 


10 


202 


IRV, a TRS-80 Utility Program 


Li 


11 


220 


Image Processing With a Printer 


Calkins 


12 


253 


The Heath H-14 Printer 


Rehm 


13 


262 


Zork, The Great Underground Empire 


Liddil 


14 


312 


A/D and D/A Conversion— An Inexpensive 








Approach 


Mikel 


15 


318 


Turn Your COSMAC VIP into a Frequency 








Counter 


Modla 


16 


326 


A Heating and Cooling Management System 


Hall 


17 


332 


Modifying the SwTPC Computer 


Weaver 



FOR SALE: TRS-80: 16 K, Level II wilh numeric keypad. 
$550. Heath H-14 printer, 110 thru 9600 bps. Adjustable 
pin feed. TRS-232 interface for connection to TRS-80 
without expansion interface. Both for $550. Tony 
Greaves, 1370 Niagara Falls Blvd, Tonawanda NY 14150, 
(716) 838-4957. 

FOR SALE: TEL-IT message and inventory computer 
system. Z80-based terminal with 16-character readout 
(no CRT). Built-in R/W tape, real-time clock. Will inter- 
face to printer. Cost $900; asking $500. Bob Loveless, 
(714)689-7800. 

FOR SALE: IBM 1980 Buffered Terminal (Model 9) and 
IBM 7441 Control Unit. Used less than one year by credit 
company. In perfect working order; terminal has 
Selectric-type ball and could be converted into printer. 
Has transmit and receive abilities compatible with Bell 
Systems. $600 plus shipping. Doug Arnold, Rte #1, Box 
278, Hanceville AL 35077, (205) 734-0390 work. 

FOR SALE OR SWAP: TI-59, reconditioned and fully 
operational with Master Library Module. No case or 
manuals. Will sell for $100 or swap for functional PC- 
100C printer. Robin Haynes,352A Washington Rd, West 
Point NY 10996. 

FOR SALE: Brand-new Heath H-8 microcomputer with 
4 K memory board, serial/cassette interface, BASIC 
tape, all assembly and operating manuals. Fully 
assembled and tested. Total value $614 (assembled) or 
$489 (kit); you get them assembled for only $275, and I 
pay shipping. Robert James, 12010 Cabana Ln, Austin 
TX 78759, (512)837-4749. 

FOR SALE: Intel System 80/10 computer with 19-inch 
chassis, SBC-635 power supply, fans, four-slot card 
cage, SBC-80/10 (single-board computer), SBC-016 (16 K 
programmable memory), SBC-416 (16 K programmable 
read-only memory), SBC-108 (8 K programmable 
memory, 4 K programmable read-only memory, six 
parallel, one serial ports). Also, haveextra four-slot card 
cage with SBC-416, SBC-104 (like 108 but 4 K program- 
mable memory), MCS-80 (SBC card unpopulated). 
Twenty-six 2708 erasable-programmable read-only 
memories included. Will sell for about 25% of list price 
or swap for S-100 bus system. John Gill, Rte 5, Box 370, 
Blountville TN 37617, (615) 323-2453. 



November BOMB 
Results 

Steve Ciarcia found the 
mark with "Home In on the 
Range: An Ultrasonic Rang- 
ing System" (page 32), 
which came in first in the 
voting. Steve receives the 
$100 first-place prize. 

Second place was won by 
one of the articles on the 
issue theme of high- 
resolution graphics, "Micro- 
graph, Part 1: Developing an 
Instruction Set for a Raster- 
Scan Display," by E Grady 
Booch (page 64). He gets the 
$50 second-place prize. 

Graphics-theme articles 
also captured the next two 
positions: "A Simplified 
Theory of Video Graphics, 
Part 1" by Allen Watson III 
(page 180) placed third, and 
"The Future of Computer 
Graphics" by Bruce Eric 
Brown and Stephen Levine 
(page 22) took fourth. 



February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 383 



Reader Service 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



120 
201 



263 
267 

33 
113 

76 
189 

80 
134 
307 

68 
299 

10 

18 
182 
191 

216 
279 

156 
257 



329 
246 
247 
127 



297 
16 
317 
172 
175 
118 
176 
117 
233 
42 
232 
61 
183 
272 
109 

104 
227 



295 

51 

159 

50 
231 
100 
161 

63 
184 

72 
237 

79 

52 
270 
1 
282 
262 
112 



266 

96 

206 

110 
147 
210 
242 
301 
202 
146 

84 
171 
258 
226 
224 

20 
195 
173 



Aardvark Software Inc 285 

Aardvark Software Inc 291 

Abbott, Robert 356 

AB Computers 349 

ABM Products 134 

Action Computer 11 1 

Adaptive Data 8 Energy Sys 362 

Adaptive Systems Inc 310 

Advanced Comp Prod 370, 371 

ALF Products 230 

ALL Electronic 354 

Alpha Omega Comp Sys 354 

Alpha Byte Storage 59 

Alphacom Inc 177 

Altos 121 

Am Comp & Telecom Corp 275 

Am Micro Prod Inc 128 

American Square Comp 201 

AMSI Corp 362 

Anadex 113 

Ancrona 361 

Apple Computer 13 

Applied Analytics 182 

Artec Electronics 24 

ASAP 267 

Ashton-Tate 277 

ATV Research 356 

Automated Equip Inc 299 

Axlon Inc 311 

Ballantine Books 304 

BASF Systems 231 

Beckian 350 

John Bell Engineering 357 

Beta Comp Devices 315 

Beta Comp Devices 352 

The Bit Bucket 283 

Bower-Stewart 8 Assoc 329 

Buss/Charles Floto 333 

BusinessWeek 193 

BYTE Back Issues 323 

BYTE Books C 111, 99, 382 

BYTE Subscriber 291 

BYTE WATS 293 

C 8 A Associates 360 

Calif Comp Systems 20, 21 

Calif Digital 374,375 

Cambridge Develop Labs 256 

Cavri Systems Inc 258 

Central Data 183 

Chrislin Industries 259 

Clev Con Comp 8 Compnts 181 

Colonial Data Serv Corp 311 

CompuMart 72, 73 

CompuMart 311 

CompuServe 104, 105 

Computer Age Inc 268 

Computer City 356 

Computer Disc of Am 158 

The Computer Factory 69 

Computerland 163 

Computer Marketing Corp 306 

Comp Prof Book Club 241 

Computer Room, The 22 

Computer Shopper 360 

Computer Specialties 88, 89 

Computer Tech Assoc 234 

Computer Warehouse 125 

Computers R Us 84, 85 

Computerware 310 

Computers Wholesale 154 

Computers Wholesale 236 

Computex 108 

COMPUTIME268 

Compuview Products Inc 117 

Concord Comp Components 315 

Corvus Systems 127 

Cover Craft 90 

CPU Shop, The 355 

Cromemco 1, 2 

Custom Business Comp 358 

Custom Peripherals 354 

Crystal Computer 175 

Cybernetics Inc 317 

B. Dalton Bookseller 203 

Data Discount Center 112 

Data Hardware 354 

Datasouth Computer Corp 146 

Datasouth Computer Corp 294 

Delta Products 171 

DG Electronics Develpmt 215 

Digiac Corp 296 

Digicomp Research Corp 322 

Digital Systems Eng 362 

Digital Graphic Systems 292 

Digital Marketing 213 

Digital Pathways 133 

Digital Research 255 

Digital Research Computers 351 

Discount Software Group 305 

Disc/3 Mart Inc 303 

Dual Systems Control Corp 26 

DMA 286 

Dynacomp Inc 257 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



170 
122 
293 

207 
198 
188 
149 
220 
229 

19 

83 
128 

41 
250 
193 

25 
305 
145 

38 
150 
166 
209 
130 
131 
291 
196 

60 

13 
7 
9 

254 

44 

45 

168 

280 

62 

21 

70 

154 

27 

28 

180 

121 

29 

264 

5 

6 

313 

314 

230 

287 

302 

298 

259 



285 

67 
225 
194 

34 
238 

89 
169 
222 
281 
275 
177 
124 
204 

43 
152 



303 

249 

36 

78 

174 

71 



46 
139 

58 
165 



Dymarc Industries Inc 254 

Ecosoft 188 

Educational Courseware 360 

Electronic Control Tech 295 

Electronic Specialists 290 

Ellis Computing 278 

Epson America Inc 217 

Escon 301 

Essex Publishing Co 308 

Exatron Inc 25 

Faircom 132 

Farnsworth Comp Center 194 

John Fluke Mfg Co 71 

Fordham 346 

Milton Foster 283 

General Business Computer 34 

Gimix 362 

Godbout Electronics 210, 211 

Mark Gordon Computers 66 

H 8 E Computronics 218, 219 

H 8 E Computronics 247 

Hanley Engineering 295 

TSE/Hardside 196 

TSE/Hardside 197 

Harris Corp 360 

Hayden Book Co Inc 287 

Hayes Microcomp Prod Inc 103 

Heath Company 17 

High Technology Inc 10 

High Technology Inc 12 

MG Hill 283 

Hobbyworld Electronics 348 

Houston Instruments 79 

Houston Instruments 79 

Hughes Aircraft 252 

IDM 358 

Imprint Software 107 

IMS International 27 

Info Unltd Software 115 

Innovative Sftw Appl 229 

Integral Data Sys 49 

Integral Data Sys 51 

Integrand 264 

Intelligent Control Sys 188 

Intertec Data Systems 53 

Ipex Int'l Inc 354 

Ithaca Intersystems 8 

Ithaca Intersystems 9 

Jade Computer Prod 366, 367 

Jameco Electronics 368, 369, 

JDR MICRODEVICES309 

JHC Info Products 358 

Jepsan Group K Inc 362 

Jordon, Jeff MBA 360 

JR Inventory Control 352 

Kemco LTD 91 

Kirk Shrewsbury 283 

Konan Corp 61 

Laboratory Microsystems 358 

Lax Computer Products 162 

Lax Computer Products 303 

Leapac Services 284 

Livermore Data Sys Inc 60 

LNW Research 316 

Lobo Drives Int'l 137 

LomasData Prod 254 

Londe, Parker 8 Michels 302 

Macrotronics Inc 358 

Magnolia Microsystems 356 

Mann, Charles 8 Assoc 260 

Marway Products Inc 190 

Marymac Industries Inc 293 

Maxell Data 75 

MBC Systems Inc 226 

McGraw-Hill Magazines 168, 169 

Meas Sys 8 Controls 29, 129 

Mega Systems Inc 362 

Meta Technologies Corp 335 

Micro Age Computer Store 63 

Micro Appl Group (MAG) 123 

Micro Architect 258 

Micro Business World 116 

Micro Computer Discount 332 

Micro Data Base Sys 139 

Micro Focus 93 

Micro House 80 

Micro Management Sys 205 

Micro Pathways 100 

Micro Pro International 245 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



148 
64 

164 
97 

185 

103 
98 

105 

87 

17 

82 

47 

276 

73 

256 

153 

244 

141 

286 

320 

321 

138 

37 

15 

88 

192 

132 

102 

186 

59 

69 

53 



107 
325 
155 
142 
326 
212 
40 
239 
179 
223 

144 
49 
163 
178 
243 

75 
265 
304 
260 
300 
190 

3 

4 

26 

48 

322 

323 

157 
23 

284 

167 

85 

54 

318 

319 

268 

12 

67 

312 

292 

235 

151 

111 

93 

252 

240 

261 



Micro Works, The 216 

Micro World 109 

MicroAce 239 

MicroByte 147 

Microcomputer Tech Inc 269 

MicroDaSys 161 

Micromail 150 

MicroMint 283 

Micropolis Corp 165 

MICRO-SCI 135 

Microsette 23 

Microsoft 131 

Microsoft (Cons Prod Div) 81 

MicroTech Exports 356 

Microware Sys Corp 1 18 

Mikos 350 

Miller Microcomputer Serv 228 

Mindex Infosystems 328 

Mini Computer Suppliers 206 

Mini Comp Supply (MCS) 358 

Mini Micro Mart 380 

Mini Micro Mart 381 

Miro Computers Inc 204 

Morrow Designs 65 

Mountain Computer Inc 19 

Mountain Computer Inc 136 

mpi 279 

MT Microsystems 199 

MTI Inc 160 

Mt. View Press 272 

MUSYS 102 

Nautilis Systems 114 

NEBS 92 

Netronics62, 224, 249 

NNC Electronics 167 

Northern Tech Books 281 

NRI Schools 209 

Ohio Data Products Corp 166 

Ohio Scientific Instr C IV 

Ohio Scientific Instr 184, 185 

OK Machine 8 Tool 207 

Oliver Advanced Eng 283 

Olympic Sales Co 297 

Omega Micro Computers 70 

Omega Research 317 

Omega Sales Co 263 

Omikron 303 

onComputing 225 

Optimal Technology 208 

Orange Micro 83 

Orthocode Group 238 

Osborne/McGraw-Hill 261 

OSM Computer 323 

Owens Associates 1 56, 157, 326 

Pace Inc 120 

Pacific Exchanges 354 

Pacific Exchanges 362 

Page Digital 353 

Pan American Elec 361 

Passport Design 276 

Passport Design 333 

PCD Systems Inc 6 

Percom Data 7 

Percom Data 35 

Percom Data 35 

Percom Data 35 

Percom Data 35 

Personal Computer Festival 319 

Personal Computer 232 

Personal Software 31 

Petronics 358 

Phase One Systems 227 

Pickles 8 Trout 248 

pk systems inc 1 34 

Power One Inc 94 

Priority One 376, 377 

Priority One 378, 379 

The Purchasing Agent 354 

QT Computer Sys 16 

QT Computer Sys 162 

QT Computer Sys 364, 365 

Quality Computer Parts 360 

Quality Software 313 

Qantex 223 

Quasar Data Products 173 

Quay Corp 141 

Quest 347 

Quiet Designs Inc 319 

Quintrex Inc 354 



Inquiry No. 



Page No. 



214 R 8 B Computer Systems 298 
241 Racet Computes 321 

22 RCA 28 

106 RKS Enterprises 166 

245 RNB Enterprises 329 

213 Rochester Data 297 

234 S 8 M Systems 313 

91 S-100lnc138 

309 SC Digital 362 

140 Scientific Eng Labs 206 

2 Scion Corp 5 

211 SciTronics Inc 297 

283 Scotia Software 358 

65 Scottsdale Systems 110 

181 Seattle Computer Prod 265 

218 Shepardson Microsystems 299 
' Kirk Shrewsbury 283 

11 Shugart 14, 15 

" Sinclair Research 151 

35 SKP Electr 283 

290 Sluder360 

14 Small Business Appl 18 

30 Snapp Inc 55 

160 Softech Microsystems 235 

39 The Software Federation 67 

200 The SoHo Group 291 

205 The SoHo Group 293 

• Solid State Sales 82 

90 Sorrento Valley Assoc 138 

129 Southern Semiconductors 195 

324 Southwest Tech Prod Corp CM 

158 Spectrum Software 233 

8 SSM 1 1 

219 Street Electronics 301 
126 SubLOGIC 192 

311 Sunny Int'l 363 

• SuperSoft 98, 179, 191,295, 307 
101 Sybex 159 

• Synchro Sound 101, 256 
32 System Kontakt Inc 58 

294 SZ Software Sys 360 

123 Tarbell Electronics 189 

95 Tech Sys Consultants (TSC) 145 

277 Technical Innovations 356 

162 Tec-Mar Inc 237 

55 Tercer Medio 96 
271 Terminal Data 356 
199 Texas Comp Sys 290 

' Texas Instruments 95 

99 3M Company 153 

215 Thunderware 300 

133 Mitchell E Timin Eng Co 200 

" Robert Tinney Graphics 155 

115 TNW Corp 180 

273 Toolsmith, The 356 
328 TPA 283 

77 TransNet122 

• United Software of Am 76, 77 
137 Univair Inc 204 

316 US Micro Sales 372, 373 

135 US Robotics 202 

143 US Robotics 208 

274 US Robotics 356 
197 VANDATA 289 

56 Vector Graphics 97 

31 Verbatim 56,57 

327 Vertical Data Sys Inc 283 

296 Videx 360 

94 Vista Computer Co 143 

289 Vista Computer Co 359 

119 Voicetek1B7 

187 Votrax 273 

251 VR Data 346 

253 Wameco 348 

• Westico Inc 148, 149,354 
24 White Computer Sys 33 

• Whitesmith's Ltd 243 
221 Wild Hare Comp Sys 301 
288 Wintek Corp 358 

217 Winterhalter 8 Assoc 299 

308 Worldwide Electronics 362 

310 WW Component Supply Inc 363 
« Zobex 119 



To get further information on the products advertised in BYTE, fill out the reader service card with 
your name and address. Then circle the appropriate numbers for the advertisers you select from the 
list. Add a 1 5-cent stamp to the card, then drop it in the mail. Not only do you gain information, but 
our advertisers are encouraged to use the marketplace provided by BYTE. This helps us bring you a big- 
ger BYTE. The index is provided as an additional service by the publisher, who assumes no liability for 
errors or omissions. * Correspond directly with company. 



384 February 1981 © BYTE Publications Inc 



K V 1 1; READER SERVICE 

For fastest service transfer mailer label from wrapper to 
coupon provided at the right. Requests cannot be honored 
unless zip code is given. This card valid for 90 days only. 
NOTE — If label is missing or defaced fill out coupon 
carefully — PLEASE PRINT — this is the only way to get 
requested material to you. 

1 21 41 61 81 101 121 141 161 181 

2 22 42 62 82 102 122 142 162 182 

103 123 143 163 183 

104 124 144 164 184 

105 125 145 165 185 

106 126 146 166 186 

107 127 147 167 187 

108 128 148 168 188 

109 129 149 169 189 

110 130 150 170 190 

111 131 151 171 191 

112 132 152 172 192 

113 133 153 173 193 

114 134 154 174 194 

115 135 155 175 195 

116 136 156 176 196 

117 137 157 177 197 

118 138 158 178 198 

119 139 159 179 199 

120 140 160 180 200 



Name . 



February 1981 
4121 



|Title) 

Address . 
City 



. fCompany) 



. State . 



-Zip. 



3 23 


43 


63 


83 


4 24 


44 


64 


84 


5 25 


45 


65 


85 


6 26 


46 


66 


86 


7 27 


47 


67 


87 


8 28 


48 


68 


88 


9 29 


49 


69 


89 


10 30 


50 


70 


90 


11 31 


51 


71 


91 


12 32 


52 


72 


92 


13 33 


53 


73 


93 


14 34 


54 


74 


94 


15 35 


55 


75 


95 


16 36 


56 


76 


96 


17 37 


57 


77 


97 


18 38 


58 


78 


98 


19 39 


59 


79 


99 


20 40 


60 


80 


100 



201 


221 


241 


261 


281 


301 


321 


341 


361 


381 


202 


222 


242 


262 


282 


302 


322 


342 


362 


382 


203 


223 


243 


263 


283 


303 


323 


343 


363 


383 


204 


224 


244 


264 


284 


304 


324 


344 


364 


384 


205 


225 


245 


265 


285 


305 


325 


345 


365 


385 


206 


226 


246 


266 


286 


306 


326 


346 


366 


386 


207 


227 


247 


267 


287 


307 


327 


347 


367 


387 


208 


228 


248 


268 


288 


308 


328 


348 


368 


388 


209 


229 


249 


269 


289 


309 


329 


349 


369 


389 


210 


230 


250 


270 


290 


310 


330 


350 


370 


390 


211 


231 


251 


271 


291 


311 


331 


351 


371 


391 


212 


232 


252 


272 


292 


312 


332 


352 


372 


392 


213 


233 


253 


273 


293 


313 


333 


353 


373 


393 


214 


234 


254 


274 


294 


314 


334 


354 


374 


394 


215 


235 


255 


275 


295 


315 


335 


355 


375 


395 


216 


236 


256 


276 


296 


316 


336 


356 


376 


396 


217 


237 


257 


277 


297 


317 


337 


357 


377 


397 


218 


238 


258 


278 


298 


318 


338 


358 


378 


398 


219 


239 


259 


279 


299 


319 


339 


359 


379 


399 


220 


240 


260 


280 


300 


320 


340 


360 


380 


400 



401 421 

402 422 

403 423 

404 424 

405 425 

406 426 

407 427 

408 428 

409 429 

410 430 

411 431 

412 432 

413 433 

414 434 

415 435 

416 436 

417 437 

418 438 

419 439 

420 440 



441 461 481 

442 462 482 

443 463 483 

444 464 484 

445 465 485 

446 466 486 

447 467 487 

448 468 488 

449 469 489 

450 470 430 

451 471 491 

452 472 492 

453 473 493 

454 474 494 

455 475 495 

456 476 496 

457 477 497 

458 478 498 

459 479 499 

460 480 500 



501 521 541 

502 522 542 

503 523 543 

504 524 544 

505 525 545 

506 526 546 

507 527 547 

508 528 548 

509 529 549 

510 530 550 

511 531 551 

512 532 552 

513 533 553 

514 534 554 

515 535 555 

516 536 556 

517 537 557 

518 538 558 

519 539 559 

520 540 560 



561 


581 


562 


582 


563 


583 


561 


584 


565 


535 


566 


586 


567 


587 


568 


588 


569 


589 


570 


590 


571 


591 


572 


592 


573 


593 


574 


594 


575 


595 


576 


596 


577 


597 


578 


598 


579 


599 


580 


600 



601 
602 
603 
604 
605 
606 
607 
SOS 
609 
610 
611 
612 
613 
614 
615 
616 
617 
618 
619 
620 



621 641 

622 642 

623 643 

624 644 

625 645 

626 646 

627 647 

628 648 

629 649 

630 650 

631 651 

632 652 

633 653 

634 654 

635 655 

636 656 

637 657 

638 6=8 

639 659 

640 660 



661 681 

662 6S2 

663 683 

664 684 

665 685 

666 686 

667 687 

668 688 

669 689 

670 69D 

671 691 

672 692 

673 693 

674 694 

675 695 

676 696 

677 697 

678 698 

679 699 

680 700 



bl I C J HUIVIH is your direct line to the editor's desk. Each month, the two top-rated authors receive bonuses based on your votes. To cast 
your vote, first look at the list of this month's articles and corresponding article numbers |located in the unclassified ads section on the page preceding the 
Reader Service list), then rate each article as Excellent. Good, Fair, or Poor by circling the appropriate number in each column below. Your feedb£c.'< helps 
to produce the best possible magazine each month. 






Article No. 


1 


2 


3 


4 


5 


6 


7 


8 


9 


10 


11 


12 


13 


14 


15 


16 


17 


18 


19 


20 


Excellent 


801 


805 


809 


813 


817 


821 


825 


829 


833 


837 


841 


845 


849 


853 


857 


861 


865 


869 


873 


877 


Good 


802 


806 


810 


814 


818 


822 


826 


830 


834 


838 


842 


846 


850 


854 


858 


862 


866 


870 


874 


878 


Fair 


803 


807 


811 


815 


819 


823 


827 


831 


835 


839 


843 


847 


851 


855 


859 


863 


867 


871 


875 


879 


Poor 


804 


808 


812 


816 


820 


824 


828 


832 


836 


840 


844 


848 


852 


856 


860 


864 


868 


872 


876 


880 


Comments 





BITE 



READER SERVICE 



February 1981 
4121 



Name . 



For fastest service transfer mailer label from wrapper to 
coupon provided at the right. Requests cannot be honored 
unless zip code is given. This card valid for 90 days only. 
NOTE — If label is missing or defaced fill out coupon 
carefully — PLEASE PRINT — this is the only way to get 
requested material to you. 



jTitle) . 



.(Company) 



Address . 
City 



. State . 



20 



21 41 

22 42 

23 43 

24 44 

25 45 

26 46 

27 47 

28 48 

29 49 

30 50 

31 51 

32 52 

33 53 

34 54 

35 55 

36 56 

37 57 

38 58 

39 59 

40 60 



61 


81 


62 


82 


63 


83 


64 


84 


65 


85 


66 


86 


67 


87 


68 


SB 


69 


89 


70 


90 


71 


91 


72 


92 


73 


93 


74 


94 


75 


95 


76 


96 


77 


97 


78 


98 


79 


99 


80 


100 



L 

BUI 



101 121 

102 122 

103 123 

104 124 

105 125 

106 126 

107 127 

108 128 

109 129 

110 130 

111 131 

112 132 

113 133 

114 134 

115 135 

116 136 

117 137 

118 138 

119 139 

120 140 



141 


161 


181 


142 


162 


182 


143 


163 


183 


144 


164 


184 


145 


165 


185 


146 


166 


186 


147 


167 


187 


148 


168 


188 


149 


169 


189 


150 


170 


190 


151 


171 


191 


152 


172 


192 


153 


173 


193 


154 


174 


194 


155 


175 


195 


156 


176 


196 


157 


177 


197 


158 


178 


198 


159 


179 


199 


160 


180 


200 



201 221 

202 222 

203 223 

204 224 

205 225 

206 226 

207 227 

208 228 

209 229 

210 230 

211 231 

212 232 

213 233 

214 234 

215 235 

216 236 

217 237 

218 238 

219 239 

220 240 



241 261 281 

242 262 282 

243 263 283 

244 264 284 

245 265 285 

246 266 286 

247 267 287 

248 268 288 

249 269 289 

250 270 290 

251 271 291 

252 272 292 

253 273 293 

254 274 294 

255 275 295 

256 276 296 

257 277 297 

258 278 298 

259 279 299 

260 280 300 



301 321 

302 322 

303 323 

304 324 

305 325 

306 326 

307 327 

308 328 

309 329 

310 330 

311 331 

312 332 

313 333 

314 334 

315 335 

316 336 

317 337 

318 338 

319 339 

320 340 



341 361 381 

342 362 382 

343 363 383 

344 364 384 

345 365 385 

346 366 386 

347 367 387 

348 368 388 

349 369 389 

350 370 390 

351 371 391 

352 372 392 

353 373 393 

354 374 394 

355 375 395 

356 376 396 

357 377 397 

358 378 398 

359 379 399 

360 380 400 



401 421 

402 422 

403 423 

404 424 

405 425 

406 426 

407 427 

408 428 

409 429 

410 430 

411 431 

412 432 

413 433 

414 434 

415 435 

416 436 

417 437 

418 438 

419 439 

420 440 



441 461 481 

442 462 482 

443 463 483 

444 464 484 

445 465 485 

446 466 486 

447 467 487 

448 468 488 

449 469 489 

450 470 490 

451 471 491 

452 472 492 

453 473 493 

454 474 494 

455 475 495 

456 476 496 

457 477 497 

458 478 498 

459 479 499 

460 480 500 



501 521 

502 522 

503 523 

504 524 

505 525 

506 526 

507 527 

508 528 

509 529 

510 530 

511 531 

512 532 

513 533 

514 534 

515 535 

516 536 

517 537 

518 538 

519 539 

520 540 



541 561 581 

542 562 582 

543 563 583 

544 564 584 

545 565 585 

546 566 586 

547 567 587 

548 568 588 

549 569 589 

550 570 590 

551 571 591 

552 572 592 

553 573 593 

554 574 594 

555 575 5S5 

556 576 596 

557 577 597 

558 578 598 

559 579 599 

560 580 600 



-Zip 



601 621 

602 622 

603 623 

604 624 

605 625 

606 626 

607 627 

608 628 

609 629 

610 630 

611 631 

612 632 

613 633 

614 634 

615 635 

616 636 

617 637 

618 638 

619 633 

620 640 



641 661 681 

642 662 682 

643 663 683 

644 664 684 
545 665 685 

646 ESS 686 

647 667 687 

648 668 388 
S4E SS9 689 
SED 670 690 
351 671 691 
652 672 692 
652 373 693 

654 S74 694 
S5E S75 S95 

655 676 696 

657 377 697 

658 878 698 
S5S 679 699 
66C 5S0 700 



READER SERVICE 



PLACE 
FIRST 

CLASS 
POSTAGE 

STAMP 
HERE 



Bill 



READER SERVICE 
PO BOX 2114 GPO 
NEW YORK NY 10116 
USA 



PLACE 

FIRST 

CLASS 

POSTAGE 

STAMP 

HERE 



KITE 



READER SERVICE 
PO BOX 21 14 GPO 
NEW YORK NY 10116 
USA 



I 



■bite 






SUBSCRIPTIONS 

For a subscription to BYTE, please complete this card. 
Name 





USA 


Canada 






Mexico 


□ 1 year 


□ S19 


□ S21 


□ 2 years 


□ S34 


□ S3B 


□ 3 years 


□ S49 


D S55 



Address . 

City 

State 



■ Zip. 



. Country 



Card No. 



Expiration date 



Four digits above name — Master Charge only 

Signature Date 



Please allow eight weeks for processing. Thank you. 



□ S43 Europe (air delivery) payment enclosed 

□ S35 Elsewhere (surface mail) payment 
enclosed 

(Air mail rates available upon request) 

Pleat* r«mlt In US funds drawn on a 
US bank. Thank you. 

□ Check enclosed (Bonus: [North America 
only] one EXTRA issue — receive 1 3 issues for 

the price of 1 2) 



4121 



G OB □ r 

□ Bill me (North America only) 



ATE 

SUBSCRIPTIONS 

For a subscription to BYTE, please complete this card. 
Name 







USA 


Canada 
Mexico 


a 


1 year 


□ S19 


□ S21 


a 


2 years 


□ S34 


□ S38 


D 


3 years 


□ S49 


D S55 



Address . 

City 

State 



-Zip. 



. Country 



Card No. 



Expiration date . 



Four digits above name— Master Charge only 

Signature Date 



Please allow eight weeks for processing. Thank you 



□ S43 Europe (air delivery) payment enclosed 

□ S35 Elsewhere (surface mail) payment 
enclosed 

(Air mail rates available upon request) 

Picas* remit In US funds drawn on a 
US bank. Thank you. 

□ Check enclosed (Bonus: [North America 
only] one EXTRA issue — receive 13 issues for 

the price of 1 2) 



4121 



Z Bill me (North America only) 




L 



Don't Miss An Issue! 



Have BYTE 
delivered to 
your door. 

Each month BYTE will bring you the 
latest in microcomputer technology. 

DISCOVER and IMPLEMENT new 
ideas. Don't miss the original informa- 
tion presented in the pages of BYTE. 



With BYTE you'll always be among 
the first to know about the important 
breakthroughs, worthwhile new 
equipment, and innovative projects in 
the world of computing. 

CHALLENGE US to deliver the very 
best ideas in microcomputers and ad- 
vanced technology to you. Return the 
attached card todayl 

Subscribe to BYTE— the world's 
leading computer magazine. 





PLACE 

STAMP 

HERE 




KV 1 K SUBSCRIPTIONS 
PO Box 590 
Martinsville NJ 08836 
USA 














PLACE 

STAMP 

HERE 




KV 1 K SUBSCRIPTIONS 
PO Box 590 
Martinsville NJ 08836 
USA 







The 

Brains of Men 

and Machines 



by Ernest W. Kent 

When the "Brains of Men and 
Machines" series of articles originally 
appeared in BYTE magazine, the re- 
sponse was immediate and enthusiastic. 
Now Ernest W. Kent has expanded his 
ideas about the brain into a full-length 
book. 

As researchers begin to unravel the 
mysteries of the brain's chemical, elec- 
trical, and synaptic circuitry, their find- 
ings are becoming immediately ap- 
plicable to advances in robotic behavior 
and computer design. The Brains of 
Men and Machines "dissects" the 
brain to provide new insights into com- 
puter design and artificial intelligence. 

It is one of the rare books that tran- 
scends disciplinary boundaries. In it the 
ever increasing relationship between 
man and machine is freshly examined — 
a relationship, Professor Kent con- 
cludes, that is today being reexamined 
in the light of man's own neurological 
self-image. 

... r,r, . Call TOLL FREE: 800-258-5420 

Hardcover 304 pages rMaiiTo ; 



Blifl 

El 1%5 



Peterborough, NH 03458 



ISBN #0-07-034123-0 

Price $15.95 

Please remit in U.S. funds or draw on a U.S. Bank 



Pie 


ase send D copies 
The Brains of Men and Machines 


of 


Name 






Title 


Company 


Street 

D Check 
D Bill V 
Card 


en 
sa 
No 
Da 


City 

:losed ir 
D 


State/Province 

[be amount of $ 
Bill Master Charge 


Code 


Exp 


te. 









Add 75a per book to cover 
postage and handling. 



m 




Automated Information Management 



The revolutionary new 
way to computerize 
your business quickly 
and economically. 

Until now you have had just two 
choices in computerizing your 
business operations. You could 
buy an economical system with 
"canned" or "turnkey" software 
or you could have an expensive, 
custom-system programmed 
specifically for your business. 

If you decide to go the economical 
route, you have to compromise the 
way you do business to conform to 
the standardized software you pur- 
chased.* The custom approach can 
yield a system which fits your needs 
exactly. But it is very costly, can take 
years to install, and in many cases, 
results jn a permanent, in-house 
software and data processing staff. 

Ohio Scientific has developed a new 
approach: Automated Information 
Management. 

This system allows you to replace 
rooms of filing cabinets with one 
small computer system. Your office 
and clerical employees can instantly 
file and retrieve information, gen- 
erate lists, reports, labels, forms 
and perform computer analysis — all 
without any programming. This 
system allows you to computerize 



the office functions which are most 
vital to your business immediately, 
without programming; whether it be 
inventory, client records, mailing 
lists, personnel, prospective cus- 
tomers, orders, quotes, jobs, material 
costs or accounts receivable / 
payables. Virtually any files of 
important and often-referenced 
information can be immediately 
computerized on this system. 

The system uses Information Man- 
agement software built on a data 
base manager. This concept is not 
new, it's been used for years on the 
biggest business computers. Until 
now it has been impractical for use 
by small businesses and depart- 
ments of larger businesses, because 
it has required a computer with a 
large amount of disk storage 
capacity which typically costs 
$100,000 or more. 

Ohio Scientific has developed.a 
revolutionary new line of small, fast, 
economical computers which store 
from 7 million alphabetic characters 
to 80 million characters "on line", 
and can access this information in 





thousandths of a second. These new 
low-cost, ultra-powerful computers, 
combined with highly simplified and 
easy to use Information Management 
software, yield a system that can be 
computerizing your vital functions in 
days, not months, and saving you 
money via improved efficiency, 
accuracy, capacity and time. 

OhioScientific Automated Informa- 
tion Management systems start at 
under $10,000, with a typical system 
which has the capacity of about a 
dozen filing cabinets costing approx- 
imately $15,000. Although Informa- 
tion Management should be the 
primary use of your system, it incor- 
porates a general purpose computer 
which can also be expanded to word 
processing, interoffice electronic 
mail, payroll processing and other 
specialized noninformation intensive 
applications via canned packages or 
custom software. 

Ohio Scientific Automated Informa- 
tion Management systems are sold 
and supported by over 350 dealers 
nationwide. 

For more information and the 
name of the dealer nearest you 
call 1-800-321-6850. 



1333 SOUTH CHILLICOTHE ROAD 
| AURORA, OH 44202 • [21 6] 831 -5600 

Circle 325 on inquiry card. 




