THIRD 2éovecad WAR 





THIRD ZIONIST WAR 


By 
GEO. W. ARMSTRONG 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 


Chapter Page 
Petition sei eee Sheena teres 5 

1. Third Zionist Wat......00..0.0.cccc ccc eee eee ee cneeeneeetsneeenseeenes 7 
2. The President’s Message of July 19, 1950.20.00... 10 
8. United Nations a Sham and a Fraud... 17 
Ao Ue Vira Trap ookicckcs Seti a tert ey Geinieng ata 22 
5. Douglas MacArthur, Soldier and Patriot.......00.0000000 24 
6: POUWCE foie ac all nie eth rhcats oun AGN outa OR nace 28 
FSA OCR BG eset: ce eaecadee cities otetedetannbaetauehtonvet adie isaatesden gies: 33 
8. Veto of Internal Security Act... cereeees 39 
9. The Second Trap.............00c ccc eeeteeeeeeeteceeeetetcnsesinenses 42 
10: :Dictatorship »:)..}i0s.c4 Saotetelteetniydins ded eet: 47 
VA. “ZiOMIStS 2. ca ste ee ese seein te ac Sen A ee eS ste etal 53 
12). Isolationism..0):..3s/:scicdeShe ieee hte eines bec ictee 66 


The People of the 


TO: UNITED STATES 

THE CONGRESS OF THE / jvs. 

UNITED STATES HARRY S. TRUMAN, ET AL. 
PETITION 


Now comes Geo. W. Armstrong, and respectfully represents 
the following: 


1. That President Harry S. Truman, Secretary of State Dean 
Acheson, and Justice of the Supreme Court Felix Frankfurter are 
traitors and should be impeached and prosecuted ; 


2. That the members of the firms of J. P. Morgan & Co., 
Kuhn, Loeb & Co., and Lehman Bros. Co., and the members of 
the B’nai B’rith, Anti-Defamation League, Anti-Nazi League and 
American Jewish Committee are traitors and should be prose- 
cuted as such; 


8. That the Zionists are aliens and are citizens of the State 
of Israeli and that they are communists and should be banished; 


4, That the purpose of said traitors and Zionists is to destroy 
our system of government and create a Zionist super state; that 
in pursuance of said purpose they fraudulently established the 
United Nations and created the Atlantic Pact, and caused our 
government to intervene in the Korean war. 


WHEREFORE, I pray you to impeach and prosecute the 
traitors and to cancel our membership in the United Nations and 
the Atlantic Pact. 


I respectfully submit the following brief and argument in sup- 
port of these allegations. 


GEO. W. ARMSTRONG 


March 1, 1951 


BRIEF AND ARGUMENT 


THIRD ZIONIST WAR 


“Our present war with Russia and China is sivigitaly: our 
Third Zionist War. All three of them were for the same purpose, 
viz: to establish a Zionist: World Empire. All of them were ini- 
tiated by a shocking disaster to arouse us to war: the first one by 
the sinking of the passenger ship Lusitania; the second by the 
destruction of our Pacific fieet at Pearl Harbor; and the third by 
the Korean attack. The first resulted in the League of Nations, 
the second in the United Nations, and the third is obviously in- 
tended to convert it into a Zionist World Empire for the pre- 
tended purpose of preserving peace. 


THE ZIONISTS OF NEW YORK AND MOSCOW | 
INSTIGATED THE WAR 


The North Koreans as well as the South Koreans are victims 
of the machinations of the Zionist communists. It is unfortunate 
that the Koreans must suffer. They have been betrayed into this 
fratricidal war by the Zionist communists of New York and Mos- 
cow. We should strike boldly to destroy the head of the snake and 
not its tail. Bomb. Moscow with the atomic bomb and not the Chi- 
nesé or the Koreans, and hang the New York and Washington 
Zionist traitors. There will never be peace on earth until Zionism 
is destroyed. Its mission is to aeeeey. Christianity and to destroy 
and enslave Christians. 


WHY THIS WAR? 


The Zionists pretended that the Korean war was to establish 
free ‘elections and a democratic government in Korea. They 
represented that the North Koreans are communists and _ the 
South Koreans are democrats. That is all we know about them. 
The North Koreans are savages and the South Koreans may be 
also. The North Koreans murder their prisoners and the South 
Koreans murder non-combatants, according to press reports. They 
fight to the death rather than surrender. It is at best a brutal 
savage war with savages, for the alleged purpose of compelling 
them to establish a democratic government. It is in fact a Zionist 
war for the purpose of establishing a Zionist Empire. 


asp 


The armies of communist China joined the North Koreans 
and at this time (March 1, 1951) they are reported to be 
losing and retreating. Our casualties have been heavy and we ap- 
pear to be in for a long destructive war. It may be a life and 
death struggle between Christians and communists, and between 
freedom and slavery. 


While the President called our intervention “police action,” 
his message to Congress and his press interviews and his conduct 
reveal it as war. It was necessary to color it as “police action” 
to give it the semblance of legality, for the President under our 
Constitution has no power to declare war; that is the exclusive 
province of Congress. It is in fact war, and a war initiated by 
the President and his advisers, Dean Acheson, Felix Frank- 
furter, David Niles, and other Zionist traitors. 


We are a gullible, charitable, unsuspecting Christian people, 
and are easily deceived. We excuse Roosevelt because he was in 
poor health, and Truman because of his early training as a Pen- 
dergast ward heeler and because of his ignorance. But they both 
had sense enough to select their associates, and they both selected 
Hiss, Niles, Acheson, et al. 


CHINESE NATIONALISTS 


The Associated Press of Nov. 30, 1950 reported General 
Claire Chennault, retired, formerly of the Flying Tigers, as say- 
ing that the Chinese Nationalists are good soldiers and will fight 
with and for us; and that only 1% of the 450 million Chinese 
are communists. That is less than the percentage of traitors in 
our own country. He said also that Chiang Kai-shek is a patriot 
of great integrity. 

' Chiang Kai-shek offered to send 33,000 trained soldiers: to 
Korea, which is more than all of the other 52 nations offered or 
contributed. Truman and Acheson not only rejected the offer 
but stationed a part of our Navy in the strait between China’s 
mainland and Formosa on condition that the nationalists stay: 
out of the war. In spite of it, the nationalists appear to be wag- 
ing a successful guerilla war. 


Truman and Acheson evidently plan to deliver Formosa and 
the Chinese nationalists to the communists through the United 
Nations or a four- or seven-power treaty. The British govern- 
ment is a socialist, pro-Zionist government dominated by -the 
Rothschild money trust, as is our own. It recognized communist 
China for the alleged purpose of protecting its interests in Hong 
Kong and Malaya. It would, no doubt, vote. to deliver Formosa 
and the nationalists to the bolsheviks. France is.at best an un- 
certain and unreliable member of the United Nations and the 
Atlantic Pact. 


It is reported that the French have changed their government 
sixteen times since 1944. The government of France is now en- 


—g— 


gaged in a losing war with the communists of Indonesia and 
‘want and need our help. The French and British governments 
are so indifferent to their own security as to oppose the re-arma- 
ment of Germany, which is necessary for their protection. Both 
the French and British will agree to surrender Formosa to the 
communists if by doing so they can promote their commercial 
interests. They are not interested in protecting Formosa for the 
protection of the Chinese Nationalists or for our protection; nor 
are President Truman and Dean Acheson and Secretary of De- 
fense George C. Marshall and the Zionists interested in doing so. 
They want to change our system of government and to establish 
a “welfare state.” 


Be it remembered that the Nationalist Government is in 
Formosa because of the treachery of our State Department. 
We promised to furnish them munitions and supplies for 
waging their war against the communists on the mainland. - 
They were compelled to go to Formosa because our State De- 
partment failed to carry out its agreement at a critical period 
of the war. It was cold-blooded treachery for the purpose of 
communizing China, for which no one has yet been punished. 


It is the duty of the 82nd Congress to establish an im- 
partial tribunal] of competent men to ascertain the truth, 
the whole truth, and nothing but the truth about the crimi- 
nals who initiated the second world war and also the Korean 
war. They should be empowered to investigate the Zionists 
and their organizations, viz: the B’nai B’rith, Anti-Defama- 
tion League and Anti-Nazi League, et al. If they are found to 
be Communistic, their members should be banished. 


2. 


THE PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE OF © 
“JULY 19, 1950 


President Truman sent a message to Congress on July. 19, 
1950, requesting authority to mobilize the resources of the 
United States in support of the United Nations. In his message 
he said 52 of the 59 nations had pledged their support. He de- 
scribed our support of the South Koreans as “police action’ to 
enforce the orders of the United Nations. On the request of 
President Truman the United Nations appointed General Doug- 
las MacArthur commander of the United Nations Army. It is 
estimated that we supplied 150,000 combat troops, South Korea 
100,000, all other countries 24, 300; and that to date we have 
had about 50,000 casualties. This is more than twice the number 
of troops furnished the other 52 nations of the United Nations 
that signed the resolution on Korea.* It is estimated that we 
have furnished 95% of the supplies for the army. Less than a 
dozen nations have supplied anything. 


The President, in his message to Congress of July 19th, said: 


“Already aircraft of two nations: Australia and Great 
Britain, and naval vessels of five nations: Australia, Canada, 
Great Britain, the Netherlands and New Zealand, have been 
available, for operations in the Korean area.” 


He also said: 


“This outright breach of the peace in violation of the 
United Nations Charter created a real and present danger to 
the security of every nation; ... it was a clear challenge to 
the basic principles of the United Nations.” 


He also said: 
“The speed, the scale and the co-ordination of the attack 
left no doubt that it had been plotted long in advance.” 


He said that the United States was “going to the aid of the 
nation (Korea) established and supported by the United Nations 
and unjustifiably attacked by an aggressor force.” 

*Congressional Record Jan. 12, 1951, page 200. 


—10— 


He said further: 


“For our part we shall continue to support the United 

_ Nations action to restore peace in the Korean area ... We 

are determined to support the United Nations in its effort 

to restore peace and security ... We have also taken action 

to bolster the military defenses of individual free nations, 
such as Greece, Turkey and Iran.” 


The President also said in this message: 


. _ “[ will transmit to Congress specific requests for appro- 
priations in the amount of approximately ten billion dollars.” 


He asked Congress to enact legislation authorizing the gov- 
ernment “to establish priorities and allocate such materials as 
necessary to promote the national security and the increase of 
taxes, as our basic weapon in offsetting the inflationary pressure 
exerted by enlarged government expenditures, and to control 
credit.” He said further that “if a sharp rise in prices should 
make it necessary, I shall not hesitate to recommend the more 
‘drastic measures of price contro] and rationing.”* 


These are the powers of a dictator which the President pro- 
poses to. invoke to enforce the “police action” of the United Na- 
tions. If granted they will not end soon. Certainly not until the 
“nolice action” is ended. He obviously aspires to be our dictator. 


The President’s message was received with acclaim by Con- 
gress and the press. They approved the defiance of Russia and 
the apparent repudiation of the Asiatic program of the Secretary 
of State and the appointment of General MacArthur as Com- 
mander-in-Chief. 

The President’s message plainly implied that the Korean in- 
vasion has been and is being prosecuted and directed by the 
Kremlin. If so, it means a long and costly war. It may mean the 
death of millions of men and the probable destruction of our 
‘government, © 


“POLICE ACTION” 


Less than 25,000 combat troops of other nations have been 
used and only a limited number. promised, except by the Nation- 
alists of China, which offer was rejected. Only a limited number 
of small naval vessels and a limited quantity of supplies have 
been furnished or promised. This alleged “police action” has 
demonstrated the impotence of the United Nations as a peace 
agency and the hypocrisy of the Marshall Plan. We have given 
the people. and governments of Europe and Asia more than 
fifty billion dollars to restore their economy. They are all inter- 
ested in protecting themselves, but they have put the heavy bur- 
den of the alleged “police action” on us. .. . 


*Congressional Record, 81st Congress, page 10781-5. 


The contribution of the 52 nations is mainly limited to an 
expression of good will. The government of France says they 
are engaged in Indonesia, and the government of Israeli that. she 
is busy at home with the Arabs. The governments of the world 
evidently do not accept our intervention as “police action” to 
enforce the orders of the United Nations. They regard it as our 
war with the communists and they prefer to remain neutral. 
They may suspect that it is another Zionist war for a super gov- 
ernment (which in fact it is). We have practically nothing to 
show for the billions we have spent through the Marshall Plan, 
the UNRRA, and in support of the United Nations, except a few 
pious expressions of good will and the promises of limited as- 
sistance at some indefinite future date. : 


If it was in fact mere “police action” to enforce the orders 
of the United Nations, then we are obviously the world’s police- 
men. The President and not Congress, has assumed for us the obli- 
gation of enforcing the peace of the world. The President had 
no authority to-do so; it was exclusively a subject for congres- 
sional action and Congress was then in session. It has already 
involved us in about 50,000 casualties to our young men and an 
estimated 18 billion dollars. It has involved us in war with Rus- 
sia and China, a temporary suspension of constitutional govern- 
ment, and a threatened dictatorship which may become perma- 
nent. 


IT IS IN FACT A THIRD WAR TO PROMOTE A 
ZIONIST EMPIRE 


There are many circumstances that support this conclusion: 


(1) The President’s message to Congress which was written 
by his Zionist advisers, is a strong circumstance. He has request- 
ed more power than Roosevelt enjoyed in the last war. He seeks 
to complete the bankruptcy of America through deflation, debt 
and taxation. Korea is connected with Russia and China by land 
and by two railroads,—one to Mukden and the other to Vladivos- 
tok, and is separated from us by about 6,000 miles of ocean and 
was probably selected for our defeat. 


(2) Our government has known for more than a year that 
this attack would be made. Rear Admiral Roscoe Hickenloetter, 
until recently chief of our central intelligence agency, testified 
before the House Armed Services Committee that Russia and 
North Korea made a secret agreement in May 1949 under which 
fifty Russian military officers were sent to the North Korean 
capitol. This number was later increased to one hundred. The 
duties of these military officers was to plan strategy for the 
coming invasion and it was agreed that Russia would provide 
North Korea with ammunition, artillery, aircraft, tanks, trucks 
and other war equipment. 


—12— 


This was reported by the Intelligence Agency to the proper 
Officials fifteen months before the attack. Truman and Acheson 
were warned until two days before the invasion, that the attack 
would come any day. They were not surprised but they were to- 
tally unprepared.* Admiral Hickenloetter was made the “scape 
goat,” and has been discharged. 

Congress appropriated $112,000,000 for the defense of Korea 
but only $200,000 was used for South Korea, the balance being 
used “directly and indirectly” for North Korea.** 


The State Department’s representative, Owen Latimore, de- 
scribed by Senator McCarthy as “the architect of our Far East- 
ern policy,” said on January 15, 1950 that “the problem in Korea 
is to allow Korea to fall but not appear that we pushed her.*** 


Our State Department had known for more than a year that 
the communists have been training and arming the North Ko- 
reans for war, but it disarmed the South Koreans and withdrew 
our troops and support. 

(3) One of the most potent circumstances is the fact that 
Dean Acheson is still Secretary of State with the power of handi- 
capping General MacArthur. If the President actually repudi- 
ated Acheson’s administration of our Asiatic program, as he ap- 
parently did, Acheson would have indignantly resigned or the 
President would have demanded his resignation. 

(4) The appointment of the pro-Zionist George C. Marshall as 
Secretary of Defense and his appointment of the Zionist Jewess 
Anna Rosenberg and Jew Max Leva as his assistants reveal 
Truman’s sympathies and character. They have the power to de- 
feat General MacArthur. 

(5) War is necessary to preserve the socialist United Na- 
tions and to mobilize our manpower and resources and to estab- 
lish a dictatorship and to silence critics, all of which the Zionists 
desire. The endorsements of Henry Morgenthau, the head of the 
American Zionists, and of the Zionist Bernard Baruch, chief 
high priest of the Zionist Sanhedrin, are significant. 

(6) The Zionists planned this Zionist war through the trait- 
ors Roosevelt, Marshall and Hiss at Yalta, and through Truman 
and Hiss at Potsdam. It was disguised by the traitors Roosevelt 
and Hiss and Stettinius in the creation of the socialist United Na- 
tions at San Francisco. 


WAS OUR DEFEAT PLANNED BY TRAITORS? 


The foregoing circumstances indicate that our defeat in 
Korea was planned. The Zionist “saint,” F. D. Roosevelt, was 
authority for the axiom that “things don’t just happen, they are 


*Congressional Record, 81st Congress, page 9373. 
**Congreasional Record, 81st Congress, July 24, 1950, page 11001. 
***Congressional Record, 81st Congress, page 9862-3. 


aig 


planned that way.” Have the Zionists planned our defeat? They 
armed North Korea and disarmed South Korea. They knew that 
an attack would be made and selected the weakest point for it. 
Evidently the Zionists of America are co-operating with the 
Zionists of Russia. 


They will profit whether we win or lose. If we lose, we will 
have lost our government and our liberty and they will have 
gained their communistic United Nations and World Empire, 
and will acquire undisputed title to the enormous mineral wealth 
of Palestine, Iran, and other countries. 


If it was in fact “planned that way” the scheme originated 
immediately following World War II. We then had billions of 
dollars of war equipment and material. The Zionists caused the 
greater part of it to be destroyed. The Yalta and Potsdam agree- 
ments and the United Nations were all in pursuance of it. 


UNDECLARED WAR 


The communists of Russia and China are waging an unde- 
clared war on us and not on the United Nations or Britain or 
France, and we can’t rely on them to win it for us. The Reds 
have defiantly and insultingly declared war on the United States. 
through their special envoy Wu. He said that we must get out 
of Korea or be driven out. Our alleged allies, the British and the 
French, through their representative the British Prime Minister 
Attlee, sought to influence us to surrender Korea and Formosa 
and Asia to the communists. The British have already. recog-: 
nized the communist Chinese government of Mao and are sup- 
porting him with munitions and supplies, some of which came 
from us through the Marshall Plan, and are now being used 
against us. 


Senator Eastland said of this appeasement: — 


_ “It would check off the vast resources of Asia to commu- 
nism, and would tremendously weaken the United States 
_ throughout the world. In fact, if we lose Asia with its vast 
manpower and resources, the foundation is laid for Commu- 
nist control of the world. The truth is that if the Commu- 
nists are permitted to absorb and digest Asia, their conquest 
of Europe will be simple. The control of Asia will place them 
75 percent of the distance on the road to world control for 
communism. I note that the British and French desire, 
. among other things, to take Communist China into the Unit- 
ed Nations, and want us to sacrifice Formosa. 


“Mr. President, to take Communist China into the United 
Nations would be like placing a rattlesnake in a playpen with 
little children, and would raise the crime of blackmail to one 
of the cardinal virtues of mankind. Communist China, in 


94s 


conjunction with the Soviet Union, is bent upon world con- 
quest. We must recognize this fact and act before she be- 
comes any stronger.’’* 


Both the British and French have coalition socialist-com- 
munist governments. The British Secretary of Defense Eman- 
uel Shinwell and Minister of Labor and Supplies Aneurin Bevin 
are avowed communists. France’s Secretary of Defense is the 
communist Louis Kahn; the French have taken no part in the 
Korean campaign; they are themselves. waging a losing phony 
war with the communists in Indonesia. Neither of them is a 
loyal or sympathetic ally. We do not need them for our defense 
and we cannot rely on them for help. 


The French government is an off and on proposition. At 
the moment it is a socialist communist coalition government; 
it has changed sixteen times in the past six years. The British 
government is controlled by the Rothschilds, who finance the 
labor party, and it is also a socialist communist coalition govern- 
ment. 


We are able to protect ourselves and incidentally Christianity 
and the greater part of the world without the help of the British 
and French or the United Nations; nor do we need the “hydro- 
gen bomb,” which is only a figment of the imagination and 
may be a Zionist scheme to divert our resources and weaken us. 
What is the use of having a bomb if we do not use it? And how 
many years will be required to develop this visionary destructive 
bomb? It is by no means certain that Russia has the A bomb.** 
We have only President Truman’s and Senator McMahon’s word 
for it, and they are both pro-Zionist and are not reliable witnesses. 
It may be only a bugaboo to scare us into accepting their plans. 


COMMUNISM OR FREEDOM 


Senator Eastland said that we must support the nationalist 
army of Chiang Kai-shek, which was betrayed by the traitors 
Roosevelt, Acheson and Truman; and we must arm the Japa- 
nese. Chiang recently stated that he had 750,000 trained troops 
in Formosa and that he could raise about 2,000,000 more on the 
mainland of China. The traitors hogtied him by not furnishing 
him with munitions and supplies which they had promised, other- 
wise he would have won the war with the communists. They also 
defeated MacArthur temporarily by enabling Mao to divert his 
troops from Formosa and China to Manchuria and Korea. 


Senator Eastland also said in this speech of December 5, 1950: 


“Our whole military strategy in the Orient has to be re- 
vised, and the time to do it is now, without waiting for 62 
different nations to submit 62 different interpretations of a 


*Congressional Record, December 5, 1950, page 16264. 
**Congressional Record, December 8, 1950, page 16565-6. 


15 


new Munich by which to guide us. The American people must 
understand that with America’s future hanging in the bal- 
ance, with American boys pouring out their lives, with the 
American people financing with their earnings and savings 
the struggle to stop the spread of communism in Europe, 
the time has come for the American Government to stand on 
its own feet with a realization that it is our destiny with 
which we gamble... 


“We must immediately clamp an iron blockade upon the 
China coast and seal her ports to all commerce with anyone. 
American air power must attack and destroy Chinese indus- 
trial potential and China’s transportation system. In fact, 
she has no highways, but depends upon a thin spread of rail 
lines to supply her industries and feed and clothe her people. 

. This transportation system can be destroyed by American 
air power from bases which we now possess. These two 
things, Mr. President, will do more damage than a great 
armed invasion of the China land mass. In addition, we must 
aid Chiang Kai-shek and assist him in returning to the main- 
land and destroying the communists. We must aid and help 
the million anti-communist guerrillas now in China and thus 
create havoc and confusion there.”* 


Senator Eastland points out the only way that we can win 
the war with Russia and China. We cannot win it by diverting 
our resources to Europe. The Europeans can protect themselves 
with Germany’s aid and a capable commander and capable gov- 
ernments without our help, but they cannot win it without Ger- 
many and we should not extend help unless Germany is included. 


Senator Eastland’s view is supported by General Claire Chen- 
nault, retired, former commander in China of the “Flying Ti- 
gers.” He is reported by the Associated Press of November 29, 
1950, to have said that he is well acquainted with Chiang Kai- 
shek and that he is a courageous, incorruptible, patriot who ear- 
nestly seeks to protect his country from communism, which is 
more than we can say of our government. It is also supported by 
former President Hoover. 

It is obvious that if Chiang attacks Mao from Formosa that 
his army will soon be moved from Manchuria and that MacAr- 
thur can then occupy both Korea and Manchuria. It is the sure 
route to victory. It is our war and we are in it up to our necks 
and we must win it. 


*Congressional Record, December 5, 1950, page 16265. 
eos 


3. 
UNITED NATIONS A SHAM AND A FRAUD 


The United Nations is a sham and a fraud, designed and 
promoted by traitors and scalawags for the purpose of destroy- 
ing our government and merging it into a Zionist World Empire 
and dictatorship. The annual cost of the United Nations is esti- 
mated at $100,000,000.00. The United States is assessed 40% of 
it, Britain 11%, Russia only 7%, and the remaining 44% is di- 
vided among all of the other nations. We are underwriting the 
outfit and probably paying the greater part of its cost. 


We have financed the Korean War and supplied about 150,- 
000 troops, the other countries of the U. N. an estimated 24,300. 
We have suffered about 50,000 casualties and they are increasing 
daily. There are no reported losses for any other country except 
about 200 to Great Britain. Our casualty and financial cost for 
this alleged “police action” are more than the casualty list and 
cost of our first three wars, viz: the American Revolution, the 
British War of 1812, and the War with Spain; the total casual- 
ties of these three wars are estimated at 28,000. 


The United Nations was conceived by the traitor Roosevelt 
and his Zionist assistants and written by the traitors Pasvolsky, 
Hiss, and other Zionists of the State Department. It is “a snare 
and a delusion,” and a very costly one. There is nothing to be 
gained by our continued membership in it, and everything to 
be lost. We can protect the Americas without the help of our 
alleged allies and they can protect themselves without our help. 
We must return to our Constitution and our time-tested foreign 
policy of isolationism and the Monroe doctrine. 


The Zionists seek to undermine and destroy our Constitution 
under Article VI of the Constitution which provides that “all 
treaties made under the authority of the United States shall be 
the supreme law of the land.” The United Nations Charter 
(Chapter IX, Article 55) provides that “the United Nations 
shall promote .. . universal respect for and observance of human 
rights and fundamental freedoms for all without distinction as 
to race, language or religion.” Article 55 has been expressly 
adopted by the United Nations General Assembly. The District 
Court of Appeals in California held that the adoption of this 


—17— 


declaration of “human rights” by the United Nations Assembly 
superseded our Bill of Rights and transferred jurisdiction over 
these subjects to the United Nations! Fugii vs. State, 217 Pa- 
cific 2nd, page 481. 


The Zionists have submitted to the states and to Congress 
the “Genocide Convention ;” and to Congress also treaties on the 
subjects of labor, known as I.L.0., and the tariff, known as 
I.T.0., which if adopted will, under the decision mentioned, 
transfer jurisdiction on these subjects from Congress to the 
pee Nations, ae from our courts to the United Tations 

ourts 


GENOCIDE CONVENTION 


The “Genocide Convention” (or treaty) is particularly ob- 
noxious for it makes anti-Zionism a felony, punishable in for- 
eign courts. Under the terms of this convention I would, if 
charged with anti-Semitism, be subject to prosecution in a for- 
eign country and in a foreign court, despite the fact that I have 
carefully sought to distinguish the Zionist communist Jew from 
the Christian Jew, who believes in our Lord and Savior, Jesus 
Christ, and our system of government. The Genocide Convention 
will become the supreme law of the land if adopted by 36 states. 
It was adopted by 22 states before its real purpose was known, 
and seven.of them have since withdrawn. The campaign was pro- 
oe financed by the Zionist James Warburg, of Kuhn, 

0 


The Zionists sought to suppress criticism of the Jews during 
the last war by the War Securities Act. The bill actually passed 
the House of Representatives. They will seek to do so again for 
that is one of the purposes of the present war. They have had 
similar laws adoptd in several of our cities and states. If they 
are innocent, why do they object to criticism? No other race or 
class of people seeks such exemption. 


President Truman appointed the socialist Eleanor Roosevelt 
as one of our delegates to the United Nations and she is at the 
head of its “Human Rights” branch. Her division declared the 
following “human rights,” viz 


“The right of social security; 3” “the right to just and 
favorable conditions of work;” "éthe right to protection 
against unemployment;” “the right to rest and leisure;” 
“the right to food, clothing, housing, and medical care and 
necessary social services;” “the right to security in the event 
of unemployment, sickness, disability, widowhood and old 
age;” and “the right to education.” 


These rights are, of course, to be enforced through the Unit- 
ed Nations. No penalty for disobedience, or method of providing 
the money are stated, but they will be provided later. 


—13— 


There are three known communists on Mrs. Roosevelt’s com- 
mittee and the balance of them are socialists. Their program is 
a socialist-communist program and for the purpose of promoting 
socialism and communism. That is in fact the purpose of the 
United Nations and not the prevention of war, as pretended. 
Trygve Lie, its manager, is a Norwegian socialist, and his sub- 
ordinates are either socialists or communists. 


THE CELEBRATION 


The President stated the purpose of the United Nations in his 
speech at Flushing Meadow, November 4, 1950. He said that “our 
soldiers died in order that the United Nations might live,” and 
that as a result the United Nations is “stronger than ever be- 
fore.” He said also: 


“The people of the world look to the United Nations as a 
source of direct help in their daily lives, to them it is a case 
of food or a box of school books or a doctor who vaccinates 
their children. It is an expert who shows them how to raise 
more rice or wheat. It is the flag which marks a safe haven 

_ to the refugee, an extra meal to a nursing mother.” 


Where does the President find authority for transferring us 
and our government to such a “glorious” super-government? 
Where will it get the money to carry out his seductive promises? 
What is left for our national, state and city governments to do, 
and why not abolish them? How can the President reconcile his 
advocacy of such a government with our Constitution and his 
oath of office? His entire speech adds up to socialism and com- 
munism. If the President understood the meaning of his speech, 
which is doubtful, he is either a socialist or a communist and is 
unfit to be President of these United States. 


The Flushing Meadow meeting was a celebration of the fifth 
anniversary of the United Nations and the occasion of the 
“Freedom Bell Crusade” sponsored by President Truman, Gen- 
eral Ike Eisenhower and the Zionist Senator Herbert H. Lehman 
of New York. In preparation for this great hullabaloo our De- 
partment of Agriculture sent materials to county agents 
throughout the country to be made into United Nations flags 
and distributed through the school children. The “victory” bell 
was sent to Berlin and a great celebration was reported to have 
been held there on “United Nations Day,” viz: October 24, 1950. 


What did we celebrate? And what did the Germans celebrate? 
We are the freest people of the world and are guaranteed freedom 
of life, liberty and property by our Constitution, and we are sat- 
isfied with it. The Germans had no occasion for a celebration, 
and Truman, Lehman and Eisenhower would not have sponsored 
a real German celebration. It was in fact an insult-to the Ger- 
mans. 


—19— 


The excitement appears to have been a celebration of surren- 
dering our system of government to the Zionist United Nations, 
but it was premature. They have not yet established the “Geno- 
cide Convention,” their I.L.O. and I.T.O. treaties. When and if 
they are ratified our pro-Zionist Supreme Court will probably 
hold that they supplant our National Constitution and then the 
Zionists will have an occasion to celebrate. 


Congressman Wood of Idaho said of the United Nations flag: 


“The United Nations flag is not American. It has no 

heredity back of it except that of crime, treason, lies, hate, 

’ suspicion and double-dealing. It has nothing in it which is 

’ American, except our money, and it holds little promise of 

ever being anything but a wilted, blood-stained rag against 

the glorious history and tradition of our flag of America— 
our beloved Stars and Stripes.”* 


“AMBASSADOR” DULLES 


President Truman appointed the republican Zionist stooge, 
John Foster Dulles, as our Ambassador plenipotentiary, and sent 
him on a mission to General Douglas MacArthur. His firm 
(Sullivan & Cromwell) are reported to be attorneys for J. P. Mor- 
gan & Co., agents for the Zionists firm of N. M. Rothschild & Son. 
At a conference of the Federal Council of Churches (a communist 
front) in Delaware, Ohio, Dulles submitted the following resolu- 
tion, which was adopted “as a requisite principle of peace,” to-wit: 


“World government, strong immediate limitations on 
national sovereignty, international control of all armies and 
navies, world wide freedom of immigration, elimination of 
tariffs and quota restrictions, and an international bank.’”’** 


That was the purpose of the Roosevelt-Stettinius-Hiss United 
Nations and of the Truman-Acheson-Frankfurter Russian 
Chinese War. That is the program of J. P. Morgan & Co., Kuhn, 
Loeb & Co., and of the Rothschild money trust. It is the program 
of the Zionists and communists. While the Russian representa- 
tives often appear to be recalcitrant and antagonistic to the 
United Nations, they are not so in fact. They are only shadow- 
boxing for public consumption and to deceive the gullible Chris- 
tians. There can be no harmony between Christ and anti-Christ, 
or between Christian and anti-Christian. 


“World government” as advocated by President Truman’s 
Ambassador-at-Large Mr. Dulles, and as established by the 
United Nations, involves the absorption of our government and 
tts subordination to the United Nations. There is no need for two 
governments “controlling our Army and Navy.” Their interests 


*Congressional Record, Feb. 6, 1951, page 1073. 
**Time Magazine, March 16, 1942. 


—20— 


will conflict and in that case the super-government will of course 
control. Mr. Dulles’ “world government” will abolish our immi- 
gration laws and protective tariff, and that is practically what 
the Truman “fair deal’? administration has accomplished. Mr. 
Dulles’ world government scheme correctly represents President 
Truman or he would not have been appointed Ambassador-at- 
Large to deal with other governments. 


—21— 


4. 
THE FIRST TRAP 


The victory celebration with its victory bells and United 
Nations flags was premature. The Chinese hurled an estimated 
1,350,000 troops from Manchuria against the United Nations 
Army and drove them back regardless of their own losses. The 
Chinese troops were said to have been doped to make them 
reckless. They surrounded a part of the United Nations Army 
and cut them off from their base of supplies. General MacArthur 
was prohibited from attacking the Chinese base of supplies on 
the alleged ground that such attack might provoke them to war! 


The Zionist press of the world, of course, blamed General 
MacArthur. They were particularly gleeful over the fact that he 
was said to have expressed the hope that he would be able to 
send our soldiers home by Christmas (of 1950). The Zionists 
never intended for General MacArthur to win the war and it will 
be a miracle for him to do so, handicapped as he has been by Tru- 
man, Acheson, Frankfurter and Niles. The loudest critics were 
the Zionist British Defense Minister Emanuel Shinwell, and the 
French, whose government has not contributed a soldier or a 
dime, and the Zionist mouthpiece Drew Pearson. 


The Associated Press reported December 2, 1950 that General 
MacArthur said that “he had received no suggestion from any 
authoritative source” that his North Korean drive should have 
been halted some distance short of the Manchurian border. He 
was asked whether “military operations” were handicapped by 
orders not to attack Chinese bases. He replied that “the order 
was an enormous handicap and without precedent in military 
history.” He said that the communist “sanctuary of neutrality 
behind their lines protected them from air attack and gave them 
the advantage of moving troops at night in difficult terrain.” 


He declined to discuss the use of the atomic bomb and 
expressed the belief that the situation was not hopeless. It was 
revealed that the order to refrain from attacking the Chinese 
bases was given by Truman and Acheson and not by the United 
Nations. It was also revealed that the Chinese assembled an 
estimated 1,350,000 seasoned troops on the Manchurian border 
at night during a period of several weeks prior to the attack. 


—22— 


This was unknown to General MacArthur, who had been 
prohibited from sending planes across the Manchurian border, 
but it was probably known to Truman and Acheson. In an open 
letter to President Truman, published by the Associated Press 
December 2, 1950, Senator Joe McCarthy said: “If this treason- 
able farce of insisting that only American boys can die while 
refusing the help of the soldiers of allies continues, then the time 
is long overdue for the Congress in the name of America to stand 
up and be counted and immediately impeach you.” Amen! Amen! 

men! 


Senator McCarthy added that it is “beyond conception that 
your State Department, which either bungled or planned us into 
this war now bars the use of any of Chiang Kai-shek’s troops in 
Korea.” No, it is not beyond conception if they planned us into 
the war, for that is precisely what to expect. He said that Chiang 
had “358,000 well-trained and well-equipped soldiers” that he 
was ready and willing to contribute. This treacherous Korean at- 
tack is consistent with the Zionist and communist system of war- 
fare; and the treachery of Truman and Acheson with that of 
Roosevelt, Stimson and Marshall. This “treasonable farce’’ is 
exactly similar to the Pearl Harbor and Lusitania treasonable 
farces. A traitor is a loathsome creature that will commit any 
crime to accomplish his treacherous purposes. He is as a general 
rule a Zionist and an anti-Christian. 


The trap was set by President Truman and Dean Acheson. 
They stationed warships in the strait between Formosa and 
China upon the agreement with Chiang Kai-shek that he would 
not attack the Chinese army on the mainland. Obviously the 
purpose was to protect the army of Mao, and to enable him to 
transfer it to Manchuria, which he did. They prohibited General 
MacArthur from sending planes over Manchuria and required 
him to stop at the Manchurian border for ten days, to enable 
Mao secretly to send an estimated 1,350,000 fully equipped 
soldiers into Korea. 


It is difficult for the Christian mind to comprehend the 
depravity of treachery but it is a part of the religion of the 
Zionist. It is their method of warfare. They are taught it by their 
Talmud and Protocols and Rabbis. It explains Truman’s peevish, 
childish letters to the music critic Hume and to Congressman 
Hebert; they were the outbursts of a guilty conscience and a 
disordered mind. 


—23— 


5. 


DOUGLAS MacARTHUR, SOLDIER AND 
PATRIOT 


The Zionists made the mistake of permitting President 
Truman to recommend General Douglas MacArthur as com- 
mander in chief of the United Nations forces. They did not think 
that he could win, disarmed as he was, and with them directing 
me campaign and in control of his supplies. They underestimated 

im. 


He was, of course, the logical man for the job. He was not 
only on the ground but he was the recognized military genius 
of the age. They sought to revive the decadent and useless United 
Nations and they thought they could rally its members and the 
American people to its support more effectively through him 
than the pro-Zionists Mark Clark or Ike Eisenhower. Moreover, 
they wanted to discredit him by defeat. 


He said in his short address at Seoul to the people of Korea: 
“It is through the spirit that we must save the flesh ... In 
humble and devout manifestation of gratitude to Almighty God 
for bringing this decisive victory to us I ask that all present rise 
and join me in reciting the Lord’s Prayer,” which they did. We 
ome imagine such humility in Mark Clark or Ike Eisenhower 
or Truman. 


What a contrast between this great Christian American 
patriot and our vain little pro-Zionist President who seeks to be 
our dictator, cavorting around in his private yacht, “The 
Williamsburg,” and his private plane, “The Enterprise,” main- 
tained at public expense. What a contrast between MacArthur and 
our real rulers the traitors Felix Frankfurter and Dean Acheson.* 


Acheson evidently planned that we should lose the Korean 
War; and such was the scheme of the Zionists. They disarmed 
the South Koreans and armed the North Koreans. They selected 


*Our dictator Truman said that he would not appoint John L. Lewis “dog 
catcher,” to which Mr. Lewis replied that if he did he would have more 
brains in the dog department than in the State, and that one of his first acts 
would be to discharge the “pusillanimous pups in the State Department.” If 
we must have a labor dictator Mr. Lewis is preferable to Mr. Truman. 


—24— 


General MacArthur as commander for the purpose of rallying 
the American people to the war, and if lost, of eliminating 
MacArthur as a probable presidential candidate on the republi- 
can ticket. If the demand in 1952 is for a military president, 
they want Hisenhower. 


But MacArthur, the great soldier and patriot, refused to be 
crushed. What a pity he is not now our President. He will win 
the war if given a free hand. The only possible way to defeat him 
is by the treachery of Truman and Acheson and their Zionist 
assistants. 


The President, at the instance of Acheson, endeavored to 
suppress an address of General MacArthur to his fellow Veterans 
of Foreign Wars at their annual convention in Chicago. In this 
speech General MacArthur said: 


“Our line of defense is a natural one and can be main- 
tained with a minimum of military effort and expense. It 
envisions no attack against anyone nor does it provide the 
bastions essential for offensive operations, but properly 
maintained would be an invincible defense against aggres- 
sion. If we hold this line we may have peace,—lose it and war 
is inevitable.” 


He said also: 


“To pursue any other course would be to turn over the 
fruits of our Pacific victory to a potential enemy. It would 
shift any future battle area 5,000 miles eastward to the 
coasts of the American continents, our own home coasts; 
it would completely expose our friends in the Philippines, 
our friends in Australia and New Zealand, our friends in 
Indonesia, our friends in Japan, and other areas, to the 
lustful thrusts of those who stand for slavery as against lib- 
erty, for atheism as against God.”* 


It is reported that this is also the view of former Secretary of 
Defense Johnson and General Omar Bradley and the “high com- 
mand.” General MacArthur bowed to the command of his com- 
mander-in-chief and did not authorize the delivery of the address. 
Senator Wherry said of Truman’s attempted gag: 


“In the press and over the radio we hear reports of 
President Truman’s order putting a gag on General Douglas 
MacArthur’s message on Formosa to the meeting of the 
Veterans of Foreign Wars in Chicago yesterday. Such action 
is outrageous and will be resented by every American. 


“Apparently there are fundamental differences over Far 

East American policy between Secretary of State Dean 

Acheson and General MacArthur, but General MacArthur, 
*Congressional Record, Aug. 28, 1950, page 13769. 


—25— 


as a good soldier, is obeying and carrying out the orders of 
the Commander in Chief as dished up to him by the bungling 
Acheson.”* 


Senator Knowland said of it: 


“Our moral leadership was undermined by the secret 
deals of Yalta, regarding which neither the Congress of the 
United States nor the American people had information until 
later years. The suppression of the Wedemeyer report on 
China for two years, and the report of General Wedemeyer 
on Korea, which has now been held in secrecy for three 
years, has allowed the State Department to lose for us in 
the Far East all that our fighting men had won in World 
War II at great sacrifice ... Now once again the adminis- 
tration is gagging a patriotic soldier, who sees the danger 
facing our Nation in the Far East, and want to warn our 
people before it is too late.”** 


If this war was in fact only a “police action” to enforce the 
orders of the United Nations, as Truman proclaimed, then 
General MacArthur would be the commander and not President 
Truman, and his effort to gag MacArthur was sheer imperti- 
nence. General MacArthur is entitled to credit for accepting the 
job and obeying orders. But the Korean war is not now regarded 
as police action by the members of Congress, as revealed by 
their speeches, nor by the President, as revealed by his messages. 


Truman said of the Marines that they were the “Navy’s 
police force” and that they maintained a “propaganda machine 
that is almost equal to Stalin’s.”” The Marines resented it and the 
President saw that it might cost votes for the democratic “fair 
deal’ candidates for Congress. On the following day he wrote 
to General Clifton B. Cates, the Marine Corps Commander: “I 
sincerely regret my unfortunate choice of language,” etc., and 
later appeared before the Marine convention and made an abject 
apology, which was featured pictorially in the daily press. 


THE TRUMAN-MacARTHUR WAKE ISLAND CONFERENCE 


There was much speculation as to President Truman’s pur- 
pose in calling for the Wake Island conference with General 
MacArthur pending the war. The pro-communist columnist Drew 
Pearson wrote that it was Truman’s purpose to tell Douglas 
MacArthur “who was boss.” The commentator Fulton Lewis said 
that Truman’s purpose was to prevail on General MacArthur 
not to resign his command. The President may have revealed 
his purpose in his San Francisco speech following the conference. 
If so, it was to dramatize his dictatorship and to promote the 
United Nations. 


*Congressional Record, Aug. 28, 1950, page 13678. 
**Congressional Record, Aug. 28, 1950, page 13770. 


—26— 


He said in substance: 


“J, Harry Solomon Truman, hereby pledge the people of 
the world that the American people will preserve the peace 
of the world through the United Nations and that we will 
defend any and all countries against aggression.” 


He had no authority to make any such commitment, for that 
is a subject over which Congress has exclusive jurisdiction, and 
Congress had not spoken. 


The 82nd Congress may not be willing to assume such a grave 
responsibility without submitting the issue to the people. It is 
true that a prior Congress subscribed to the United Nations, but 
it was without authority to subordinate our government to the 
United Nations. The Zionists and communists and socialists wish 
to do so, but the white Christians are the majority and can and 
should repudiate the membership. Congress did not then know 
that the United Nations charter was written by the traitor Alger 
Hiss and other traitors in the State Department. They did not 
understand that its effect would be to make our government a 
minority state in a world Zionist super government and abolish 
our own government. 


It now appears that this dramatic Wake Island conference 
was to use General MacArthur and his victories to promote the 
United Nations and the democratic party. The meeting was 
planned by the bunch of traitors who seek to destroy our govern- 
ment. On October 8, 1950 they announced their program to 
increase our army to three million men, according to the 
Associated Press and United Press of that date. It was reported 
that this program has the support of Chairman Vinson of the 
House Armed Services Committee. It means a military govern- 
ment and confiscatory taxation; it means bureaucracy, bank- 
ruptcy, and a dictatorship. 


General MacArthur declined to comment on the conference 
with President Truman further than to assure the Asians that 
America would protect them against Russia, which was his mis- 
sion. 


General MacArthur performed a miracle in rescuing more 
than 100,000 of his men in sub-zero weather who were sur- 
rounded in mountain passes by an overwhelming number of well 
clothed and well equipped Chinese red bandits. The hands and 
feet of many of our men were frozen and had to be amputated. 
The United Nations was requested to denounce this treacherous 
Chinese attack. Some of its members objected and the decision 
was postponed. It is within our power to punish the depraved 
traitors who designed the trap, but no punishment is adequate; 
the most that we can do is to try them for treason and if con- 
victed execute them in disgrace and confiscate their property. 


~—27—~ 


6. 
POLITICS 


In his St. Louis campaign speech, Nov. 4, 1950, President 
Truman said, “Isolationism and greater strength and prosperity 
are the major campaign issues.” The Associated Press reported 
that there were several hundred vacant seats and that “hundreds 
of police, detectives and secret service men guarded the audi- 
torium.” Obviously they constituted a large part of his audience. 
He paid tribute to the many “honorable men and women in the 
republican party who have backed bi-partisan foreign policy.” 


Truman condemned the republicans who attacked the 
bi-partisan policy and who attacked his administration “and 
sought to destroy the United Nations and labor unions through 
the infamous Taft-Hartley law.’’ He promised its repeal. He 
boasted that the democratic party had “broadened and increased 
social security and raised the minimum wage from 40c to 75c an 
hour.” He asserted that a “vote for isolationism would be a vote 
for national suicide.’”’ This speech was made over a nationwide 
radio three days before the 1950 election and was paid for by 
the National Democratic Committee. It was the platform and 
program of that committee. 


ISOLATIONISTS 


We must return to our ancient moorings, viz: Constitutional 
Government and isolationism. Dean Acheson sought to reflect on 
Senator Taft by saying he is an “isolationist.” If he is, in fact, 
it is to his credit. It is to be hoped that some of our alleged states- 
men will have the courage to stand for constitutional government 
and our ancient isolation foreign policy. We were a happy and 
prosperous people with a solvent government until they were 
abandoned by Roosevelt, followed by Truman. We are now at 
war and are an over-taxed people with a bankrupt government 
seeking to find something else to tax. 


Isolationism was not the issue in the 1950 campaign; it was 
discussed only incidentally. The issues were Dean Acheson, Felix 
Frankfurter and the other traitors in our government, the C.I.0., 
A.F. of L., the Taft-Hartley Act, the Truman administration, and 


—238.- 


Truman and his Zionist-labor government. They were all repudi- 
ated, even in the strongholds of organized labor. 


The democrats of the South are as strongly opposed to Tru- 
man and his “fair deal’ and “welfare state” and his pro-Zionist 
Wall Street labor administration, as are the people of the West, 
who turned against him. In Oklahoma, where the democrats 
elected the governor, they repudiated the United Nations and the 
World Federalist “Genocide Convention” by a vote of more than 
four to one, despite the fact that the Genocide Convention had 
previously been approved by the legislature. The American people 
are obviously satisfied with their Constitution and system of gov- 
ernment but not the present administration of it. That is the cor- 
rect interpretation of the election. 

There was no political party or candidate that would stand 
for our system of government in preference to the United Na- 
tions, or for isolationism as against internationalism; these im- 
portant issues were not, therefore, directly involved in the elec- 
tion. Senator Taft accepted the challenge as to the repeal of the 
Taft-Hartley Act, and won by a majority of more than 430,000 
votes. William Green, president of the A.F. of L., and Philip 
Murray, president of the C.I.0., campaigned to defeat him. The 
Zionist communist, Jack Croll of the C.L.0O., undertook to raise a 
campaign fund of $12,000,000 by an assessment on the C.I.O. 
membership. He reported a campaign contribution of $460,000. 
The balance, if collected, was obviously misappropriated. The 
election results must be interpreted as an approval of the Taft- 
Hartley Act and a repudiation of their leaders by the member- 
ship of organized labor, which is to the credit of the membership. 


ELECTION RESULTS 


The election of Senator Taft in Ohio and the defeat of the 
President’s spokesmen, Lucas in Illinois, Myers in Pennsylvania, 
and Tydings in Maryland, was a repudiation of his administra- 
tion, but it did not faze him or change his plans. 


The Associated Press reported on November 15, 1950, that 
Truman wrote Chairman Doughton of the Ways and Means Com- 
mittee to prepare an excess profits tax bill at the short session 
of Congress that would provide for $4,500,000,000. He recom- 
mended that profits be subject to this tax after July 1, 1950. He 
also recommended that government agencies begin “blueprinting 
at over a new multi-billion dollar foreign aid program for pres- 
entation to Congress in January.” Thus it appears that the 
President adopted Lenin’s plan of communizing America, viz: 
to cause us to “spend ourselves into bankruptcy.” It is a slow but 
sure route. 

The American people have impeached Truman, Acheson, and 
Frankfurter as shown by the results of the November election. 
Self-respect and decency should compel them to resign. It was a 


—29— 


vote of want of confidence in the Truman administration. In 
England or France it would have meant an election to bring 
about a change of government in order that the government rep- 
resent the will of the people. Our system does not require it. It 
demonstrates a weakness in our Constitution. Congress should 
elect the president every two years instead of the politicians elect- 
ing him every four years. Under our present system the presi- 
dent dominates Congress through his power to give jobs to them 
and their friends. The suggested change would make the presi- 
dent responsive to the will of Congress. They would dictate to 
the president instead of he to them, for they would have the 
power of removal without impeachment. 


THE TRUMAN PROGRAM 


President Truman in his message to the adjourned session 
of the 81st (lame duck) Congress, which convened on Novem- 
ber 27, 1950, urged Congress to grant statehood to Hawaii and 
Alaska, and to appropriate $17,800,000,000 for the Korean war, 
continue rent control and levy an excess profits tax. He sched- 
uled statehood for Alaska and Hawaii as the first order of busi- 
ness. Congress rejected it on the ground that it was packing the 
senate for the adoption of the Truman program. It would also be 
important to Truman and Acheson in case of impeachment by the 
82nd Congress. 


Senator Wherry, the republican minority floor leader, said 
that the first order of business should have been the “removal 
of Dean Acheson,” to which should be added Truman and Frank- 
furter. Congress should promptly create an impartial non-par- 
tisan board or committee to investigate the Pearl Harbor disas- 
ter (which has been twice white-washed), the Korean war, and 
Zionist responsibility for them. It should then take the necessary 
steps eo relieve us of traitors and to restore constitutional gov- 
ernment. 


The House of Representatives adopted an excess profits tax 
bill providing for a tax of 77 per cent, retroactive from July 1, 
1950, on profits above “normal” as defined by the bill, which is 
estimated to raise about $3,000,000,000 additional revenue. The 
taxpayers, as represented by the United States Chamber of Com- 
merce and the National Manufacturers Association and about 
100 voluntary witnesses, appeared before the House Ways and 
Means Committee in opposition. It is an unjust and discrimina- 
tory method of taxation that will discourage private enterprise 
and be harmful to our country. The representatives of the tax- 
payers proposed an increase in the rate as an alternative, which 
arr aes adopted, but not as an alternative; both plans were en- 
acted. 


A better plan is to issue $4,000,000,000 of currency and 
thereby relieve the overburdened taxpayer of the added tax load. 


—30— 


This would increase prices and wages, called inflation, but infla- 
tion is better than deflation and bankruptcy. It is better than 
debt, slavery and communism. Our money is inflated as compared 
with the monies of other countries. They cannot trade with us 
reriry Me give or lend them the money. The dollar ought to be 
deflated. 


A still better plan is to withdraw from the Roosevelt-Hiss- 
Zionist United Nations and from the Atlantic Pact. Let the Euro- 
peans create their own “United States of Europe” or pacts, with- 
out us. They can defend themselves against Soviet Russia with 
Germany’s help, but can’t without it, — not even with our help. 
We should protect Formosa and arm the Chinese nationalists so 
that they can defend themselves. 


Major General Claire Chennault, retired Air Force Comman- 
der in China during World War II, says that the nationalists of 
China can win with our support and that all that is necessary is to 
equip them. We should equip Chiang’s men and let them finish 
the war. Congress should then demand the retirement of General 
Marshall as Secretary of Defense and the appointment of Gen- 
eral MacArthur as his successor. 


The President, in his economic message to Congress of Janu- 
ary 12, 1951, called for huge new “pay as you go taxes, strict 
price and wage and rent controls.” He said everybody will have 
to make “big sacrifices for years to come, all the way down to 
using towels and sheets longer.” He estimated that we will “re- 
quire $140,000,000,000 in this and the next fiscal year,” and 
asked Congress to “drastically increase taxes and to curb specu- 
lation.” He told Congress that “1,000,000 more men and women 
may be added to the armed forces within the next few months,” 
and he claimed the power to add them without consulting Con- 
gress. 


Stalin could not have devised a better and more certain pro- 
gram for communizing America and for the destruction of our 
government. We have reached the saturation point on income 
taxes, called “diminishing returns,” where increasing the rate 
will reduce production and create less revenues. The democratic 
“fair deal” House leader McCormick proposed through the press 
of the same date (January 12, 1951) a national sales tax. This is 
an indirect, disguised and comparatively painless tax upon the 
consumer. We have reached the limit or nearly so, of providing 
revenue by income taxation, and must adopt a sales tax if the 
President creates another emergency or sends a large army to 
Europe. 

There are in fact two better methods of providing the re- 
quired revenue, viz: 

(1) To confiscate the wealth of the rich Zionist traitors 


who euchered us into this war. Justice, as well as our neces- 
sity, requires the adoption of this plan. It will involve a trial 


—31— 


of traitors and an adjudication. We are entitled to know the 
truth about this war and also World War IT. When we know 
the truth the remedy will suggest itself, “and the truth will 
make us free.” 


(2) To pay in currency “as we go” and not by taxes and 
bonds which will produce inflation, unless prices and wages 
are frozen. But inflation is better than deflation and bank- 
ruptcy and price and wage controls and communism. Infia- 
tion simply means high wages and prices, and cheap money. 
It benefits the debtor, the producer and the farmer, and it 
injures the bond holder, the creditor and salaried people. 
But it does not produce poverty and bread lines and soup 
kitchens and socialism. It is admittedly bad, but is better 
than deflation. 


The President’s plan will result in communism and a dicta- 
torship, if indeed that is not the purpose of it. He has practically 
established himself as a dictator by usurpation. In a press state- 
ment on the same date (January 12, 1951) he asserted that he 
had power to send troops to Europe in support of the Atlantic 
Pact and that while he would consult Congress, he would do as 
he pleased regardless of Congress, and if Congress refused to ap- 
propriate the money to pay for the troops he would “go to the 
mat” with them; that he “had licked them once and could do so 
again.” 

The press commentators have interpreted this to mean that 
Truman would seek re-election. But it is also subject to the inter- 
pretation that he would abolish Congress, which I think is what 
he meant, for it is what he wants and what his Zionist advisers 
want, and is only another step — a very long one — in his pro- 
gram to make himself our dictator. He can only obtain that goal 
by usurpation and theft, for he cannot obtain it by the ballot. 


7. 
SABOTAGE 


The Associated Press reported on August 14, 1950 that four 
republican members of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, 
viz: Wiley of Wisconsin, Hickenlooper of Iowa, Smith of New 
Jersey, and Lodge of Massachusetts, charged that “the Truman 
administration policy invited Russia to grab whatever it could in 
China, Korea, and Formosa.” Attacking presidential agreements 
at Yalta and Potsdam, they said “the Roosevelt and Truman Far 
Eastern policy consistently temporized with and capitulated to 
the ruthless program of the communists.” They said further that 
they “disintegrated onr armed forces in 1945” and caused the 
senseless destruction of billions of dollars worth of military 
equipment which the United States and its friends so desperately 


need today. 
OR WAS IT “PLANNED THAT WAY”? 


They ascribe this conduct to “incompetence and bungling,” 
which is a charitable view to take. Was it in fact “incompetence 
and bungling” that caused Roosevelt to select Alger Hiss as his 
adviser at Yalta, and as Secretary of the San Francisco conven- 
tion that created the United Nations Charter? Was it “incom- 
petence and bungling” that caused Roosevelt to select Stettinius 
of J. P. Morgan & Co., as Secretary of State; Henry Stimson, at- 
torney for Kuhn, Loeb & Co., as Secretary of War; the Zionist 
Henry Morgenthau as Secretary of the Treasury; the Zionist 
Felix Frankfurter as United States Supreme Court Judge; and 
fe ae Neyhaus alias Niles, and Baruch as “assistant presi- 

ents”? 


Was it in fact “incompetence and bungling” that caused 
Roosevelt to doublecross Chiang Kai-shek and to cede Manchuria 
to the communists at Yalta? Was it “incompetence and bungling” 
that caused him to select the communist Sidney Hillman as the 
dictator of the Chicago democratic convention and Truman as 
Vice President and his probable successor? 


Was it “incompetence and bungling” that caused Truman to 
ratify Roosevelt’s program at Potsdam, and to divide Germany 
into four zones giving the bolsheviks the eastern fertile agricul- 


—_33— 


tural section and agreeing to the confiscation of the property of 
the inhabitants of the eastern zone and the expulsion of 12,000,- 
000 of them from their homes? Was it “incompetence and bung- 
ling” that caused Truman to continue Roosevelt’s Zionist ad- 
visers and program; to select Dean Acheson as Secretary of 
State and the pro-communist George C. Marshall as Secretary of 
Detenee and the Zionist Jewess Anna Rosenberg Assistant Sec- 
retary? 


We may excuse Truman on the ground of “incompetence and 
bungling” and ignorance, but it is a. lame excuse for a President 
of the United States and not a valid one. We are all legally re- 
sponsible for the consequences of our conduct. It is a severe tax 
on our charity and credulity to find an excuse for President Tru- 
nee but no excuse is valid for the conduct of Roosevelt and 

cheson. : 


The Zionists designed and partially executed a most adroit 
and cunning plan to communize the world, including America, 
and it is now in process of accomplishment. A very large part of 
Europe and Asia have already fallen, and our government is ser- 
iously threatened. If we lose the war with Russia and China, we 
are sunk; if we win, we still have the Zionists and the Socialists 
to deal with. If we lose, we lose our liberty and our system of 
government and our Christian religion. We will not be safe until 
we hang the traitors and banish the communists, 95 per cent of 
whom are Jew Zionists. We must imprison them in concentration 
camps until we can transport them. 


Congress should repudiate the Yalta, Teheran, Quebec and 
Potsdam agreements; the bolsheviks have already done so. Their 
intent and purpose was to communize the world. President Tru- 
man in his radio report to the Nation on September 1, 1950 now 
admits that this is true. He said, 


“The Soviet Union has repeatedly violated its pledges of 
international co-operation. It has destroyed the independence 
of its neighbors. It has sought to disrupt those countries it 
could not dominate. It has built up tremendous armed forces 
far beyond the needs of its defense.” 


He said in substance that the Soviet politburo are liars, that 
their purpose is to communize and dominate the world, and that 
they are the instigators of the Korean War. 


All of that is true but the President is rather late in recog- 
nizing it. If it is true, then what in the name of common sense 
is the use of having a conference with them about a Japanese 
treaty and the disposition of Formosa? 


—34— 


GERMANY 


It was Truman and not Roosevelt who made the Potsdam 
treaty that gave Berlin and East Germany to Stalin, which re- 


sulted in the forced migration of 12,000,000 Germans and the 
confiscation of their homes and property. Senator Langer, who 
recently returned from a visit to Germany, says of their con- 
dition: 

“Those famiiles were driven from their homes, away 
from their churches, away from their schools. Where are 
they today? We have heard a great deal of the displaced per- 
sons; but the situation of these millions of people is just as 
bad as the worst we have ever heard about displaced per- 
sons. I saw them. They live in single rooms, three or four 
families in a room. They live in camps and shacks. Children 
are without proper food, and are getting no education. How 
can they when the heads of families are without work and 
fathers and mothers see no hope of re-establishing a 
home?” 


He also said that the fate of Europe is dependent on the 
Germans. 


“Let me repeat the warning that if Western Germany 
should fall a victim to Russia, the hundreds of millions of 
dollars which we have spent in France, Italy, and England 
will have been spent in vain, for those nations, too, will fall 
before Communist aggression.” 


He said of the Nuremberg trials: 


“Moreover, the rules under which the defendants were 
tried were not the rules and laws prevailing in Germany, but 
were the rules written specifically for the purpose of the 
trials. Though the laws were drafted by Americans they did 
not follow American standards of procedure at all. ... 


“There has been much discussion, both pro and con, with 
respect to the war-crimes trials which we held in Nuremberg. 
I am not now speaking of the first Nuremberg trials, in 
which the Russians openly participated, to try Goering and 
the other Nazi leaders. I am speaking of the subsequent war- 
crimes trials, which were conducted by American judges, 
ander American law written especially for the purpose. The 
prosecutors were Americans. ... 


“The other trials were conducted by American judges 
and American prosecutors according to American laws spe- 
cifically enacted for that purpose. The difference between 
them was as great as the difference between day and night. 
For the second Nuremberg trials we sent from all over the 


—35— 


United States judges to try between 2,000,000 and 3,000,000 
Germans who were arrested and tried at what were called 
the denazification trials ... 


“If the payrolls of the Nuremberg prosecution staff were 
subpoenaed by the Judiciary Committee, headed by the dis- 
tinguished Senator from Nevada, it will be seen that PRAC- 
TICALLY THE ENTIRE PROSECUTION STAFF WAS 
COMPOSED OF LEFTISTS AND MEN WHO SINCE THEN 
HAVE BEEN EXPOSED AS COMMUNISTS, AND MEM- 
BERS OF COMMUNIST-FRONT ORGANIZATIONS. They 
were, and still are, leftists. The tactics they pursued at Nur- 
emberg were partisan. They were not the sort of tactics we 
expect to see followed in an American courtroom. They acted 
under the Moscow principle that the state can do anything to 
its enemies, and they decided who were those enemies.”* 


The Christian Germans cannot be enthusiastic over the ap- 
pointment of the pro-Zionist Ike Eisenhower as commander. He 
restrained General Patton from taking Berlin; he was the first 
administrator of the Morgenthau Plan and was responsible for 
stationing Negro soldiers in Berlin. 


LEHMAN 


Senate Resolution 187, providing for a review of the policy of 
dismantling German industrial plants, was before the Senate on 
the consent calendar on August 8, 1950. Under the rules of the 
Senate no resolution or bill can be "considered on the consent cal- 
endar if there is objection by any senator. The New York Zionist 
international banker, Senator Lehman, objected. The following is 
a colloquy between Senator Wheery, minority leader, and Senator 
Lehman, regarding this resolution: 


MR. WHERRY: I was assured by various members of 
the Senate Foreign Relations Committee that Senate Resolu- 
tion 187 would be given early consideration. I had hoped it 
would be agreed to during the call of the calendar. Of course, 
I realize that any Senator has a right to object.... 


The first resolution for this purpose had the signatures 
of approximately 50 senators upon it. All that it calls for is 
a review of the dismantling program in Germany ... We 
have had this matter before us for two years. For two years 
we have tried to have this resolution agreed to and now it is 
here before us on the consent calendar, and it will be impos- 
sible to bring it up again before the adjournment of Con- 
gress... 


MR. LEHMAN: I object. 





*Congressional Record, December 18, 1950, page 16872-4. 
—36— 


MR. WHERRY: What is the objection to the resolution, 
may I inquire? 


MR. LEHMAN: I object to both the declarations and con- 
clusions of the resolution and I do not think its adoption is 
necessary. 


MR. WHERRY: Of course, the Senator from New York 
knows that it will be impossible to bring up the resolution for 
debate at any other time in the present session. 


MR. LEHMAN: I continue my objection to the present 
consideration of the resolution.* 


The dismantling and destruction of German factories con- 
tinues in both the British and French zones. The French profess 
to fear the revival of German military power, and the British her 
economic powers, but both need German help to check the March 
of Bolshevism. Indeed, it is necessary; for if Germany lines up 
with the communists, Europe is doomed and America is seriously 
threatened. Senator Lehman knows that this is true. His objec- 
tion to the consideration of the resolution was to help the com- 
munists. It brands him as a communist sympathizer and traitor. 


DUAL CITIZENSHIP 


Senator Lehman provides an apt illustration of dual citizen- 
ship. The Zionists claim to be dual citizens wherever they reside. 
It is reported that the governments of Greece, Austria, Sweden, 
and Denmark have acquiesced, and that Britain, France and 
America will not revoke citizenships on the ground that the Zion- 
ists are citizens of the State of Israeli. Never has such privilege 
been granted to any other nationality or race of people. It is 
contrary to sound public policy. 


No man can serve two masters for he will “forsake the one 
and cleave to the other.” No man can be a Zionist and a Chris- 
tian, for the Zionists are anti-Christ and anti-Christian. No man 
ean be a communist and a loyal citizen of the United States,— 
and all Zionists are communists or socialists. The international 
banker Zionist Senator Lehman, the reputed father-in-law of 
Henry Morgenthau, should be expelled from the United States 
Senate and from America. 


Lehman is loyal to the State of Israeli and the Zionists, and 
he is disloyal to America. If the communists win, Zionists and 
Zionism will win, and we will lose our Christian religion and our 
Constitutional system of government. His objection to the con- 
sideration of the senate resolution served to neutralize Germany 
in the present war and to help the communists to win it. 





*Congressional Record, August 8, 1950. 
—37— 


Lehman and the other international Zionist bankers are the 
head and front and the master minds of the American traitors. 
They secured the appointment of Jno. J. McCloy of the Chase 
National Bank, and the Zionist Benjamin Buttenweiser of Kuhn, 
Loeb & Co., as West German administrators in pursuance of the 
Morgenthau-Eisenhower program. The West Germans are white 
Christians and would be our friends, despite our brutal treat- 
ment of them. What a contrast between the humane administra- 
tion of Japan by General Douglas MacArthur, and the Morgen- 
thau-Eisenhower administration of Germany! 


GEORGE C. MARSHALL 
Secretary of Defense 


I have doubted the loyalty of General Marshall since the Pearl 
Harbor disaster and his attempt to communize China. He revealed 
his true character in the appointment of his two assistants, viz: 
the Zionists Anna M. Rosenberg and Max Leva. General Marshall 
was a Roosevelt pet and is now a Truman pet. He appears to be 
a sanctimonious hypocrite. 


—38— 


8. 
VETO OF INTERNAL SECURITY ACT* 


This bill provided a practical and correct test of loyalty of 
our government employees. It was not only actively opposed by 
all of the Zionist members of Congress, but by all of the Zionist 
political organization, viz: American Jewish Committee, Ameri- 
can Jewish Congress, Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B’rith, 
Anti-Nazi League, Jewish Labor Committee, Jewish War Vet- 
erans, and Union of Hebrew Organizations. All of these or- 
ganizations are political Zionist communist organizations. Presi- 
dent Truman vetoed the bill for them and at their request, which 
is in itself sufficient ground for his impeachment. 


Promptly after the President’s veto message was read in the 
House of Representatives, Congressman John E. Rankin of Mis- 
sissippi said, “This document should be answered on the floor. 
I have never heard so many mis-statements (lies) in the same 
number of words. I am sure the President did not write it and 
I doubt if he even read it. It sounds like communist propaganda.” 
(And was). 


“The rumor is that Felix Frankfurter wrote it. They say 
that he and a man named Russell from the Justice Department 
spent a large part of yesterday and this morning in the White 
House preparing this message.”** Fulton Lewis, Jr., suggested 
over the radio that the rumor was that the message was written 
by the President’s assistant, the Zionist David Niles (Neyhaus). 


Whether the message was written by the Zionist Frankfur- 
ter or Niles or some other Zionist, it was a Zionist communist 
message and a disgrace to the office of president. It is a disgrace 
to the office of president that the occupant must have Zionist 
approval of an act designed to restrain them. The President said 
in his message that the act would help the communists and not 
restrain them. The communists and “fellow travellers” in the 
House and Senate and the patriots in Congress did not take that 
view of it. The veto was rejected by a House vote of 286 to 48.*** 


*H. R. 9490, Congressional Record, September 22, 1950, page 15672-76. 
**Congressional Record, 81st Congress, page 15672. 
***Congressional Record, 81st Congress, page 15676. 


—39— 


Every communist and communist sympathizer, led by the 
Zionist Emanuel] Celler and the pro-Zionist Franklin D. Roose- 
velt, Jr., and the communist Marcantonio, voted to sustain the 
veto. The same was true in the senate, where the vote to sustain 
was supported by the vote of every communist and pro-Zionist, 
led by the Zionist Lehman. It was rejected by a vote of 59 to 10.** 


The President’s veto of this bill is another ground for his 
impeachment. By a vote of about 6 to 1 our representatives in 
Congress, irrespective of party, have sought to protect our se- 
curity. Their principal purpose was to intern traitors pending 
war, as revealed by the act and the discussion of it. 


The President, in his lengthy discussion of the bill, did not 
mention the all important subject of incarcerating communists. 
That was-the chief objection of the Zionists to the bill. He dis- 
cussed elaborately (in 5500 words) “thought control business” 
and the “freedom of expression of opinion.” He said, “We need 
not fear the expression of ideas but we do need to fear their sup- 
pression.” He said also: “To permit freedom of expression is 
primarily for the benefit of the majority because it protects criti- 
cism and criticism leads to progress.” Granted, but what a 
mockery, coming from Truman, Frankfurter or Niles.* 


Truman said as to the section of the bill that limited the immi- 
gration of aliens: “The bill would deprive our government and our 
intelligence agencies of the valuable services of aliens in security 
operations.”” As charitable as we may want to be toward his 
Zionist message, we cannot concede that their services are so 
very valuable. We did pretty well without them before the Roose- 
velt and Truman administrations and we can manage somehow 
to worry along without them. 


Nor can we accept his assurance that there are no commu- 
nists in the Executive Department as long as he retains Acheson 
and Niles. The Executive and State Departments are “lousy” 
with them. It should be remembered in this connection that Tru- 
man still “sits on the lid” and refuses to permit congressional 
committees to examine their records. By his message the Presi- 
dent convicts himself of being pro-Zionist and pro-communist. 
He obviously prefers them and their welfare to that of the Amer- 
ican people, and obviously the Zionists have more influence in 
our government than our elected representatives in Congress. 


PERVERSION OF INTERNAL SECURITY ACT 


This measure was designed by Congress to prevent the influx 
of Zionist Communists and was opposed bitterly by the President 
and the Zionists of Congress. Since its enactment the President 
has not only refused to enforce the law but has perverted it; not 


**Congressional Record, Sept. 23, 1950, page 15872. 
*I hope that the Zionists will take that view of this brief and argument. 


—Ao= 


a single communist has been confined; and his judges continue 
to release the convicted communists on technicalities. The immi- 
gration officials have applied the law with great severity to the 
homeless and friendless Germans. Senator Langer said in his 
speech regarding his visit to Germany: 


“However, that is not all. Mind you, Mr. President, more 
than 200,000 of those persons had applied to come to the 
United States, under the quotas; but following the passage 
of that act, their visas were canceled. Why was that done? 
At one time at Ellis Island, 1,200 persons were stopped. Some 
of them were the brides of American soldiers. Some of them 
had sold their furniture. Many of them had given up their 
jobs to come here.”’* 


The immigration officials acted under the authority and by 
direction of Attorney General McGrath, whose duty it is to en- 
force the law. A joint committee of twelve Congressmen headed 
by Senator McCarran from the Senate and Congressman Woods 
from the House, both democrats, protested this perversion of the 
act to Attorney General McGrath. He did not deny responsibility 
but said it was the law and that he was not responsible for writ- 
ing the law. 


This can not be true. The act was scrutinized and debated for 
a long period of time by the members of Congress, many of whom 
are able lawyers. It was supported by all of the Christian patri- 
otic members of Congress and opposed by all of the Zionists and 
pro-Zionists. It was vetoed by the President, presumably on Mc- 
Grath’s advice. He would not have vetoed it if it applied only to 
the Germans. If it is true then evidently some scoundrel changed 
ees its adoption, and the President was the last person 
© handle it. 


Senator Langer states that the Germans deeply resent their 
exclusion from America, and justly so. This is confirmed by the 
recent elections in Bavaria and the other German states in which 
rearmament was an issue, and the people by an overwhelming 
majority voted against it; they repudiated Adenaur who advo- 
cated it. The allies have proposed that they will lift controls and 
grant them independence if they will co-operate, but still they 
refuse. The situation is not helped by the appointment of Eisen- 
hower, their arch enemy, as European commander. 


*Congressional Record, Dec. 18, 1950, page 16875. 
AL 


9. 
THE SECOND TRAP 


President Truman and his mentor, Dean Acheson, seek to 
provide a second trap for our defeat. They seek to surrender 
Formosa and China to Russia, and to fight Russia and China in 
Europe where we have no dependable allies. 


With the help of the Chinese Nationalists we can defeat 
them in Asia; but without the help of Germany which we have 
no right to expect and can not get, we can not do so in Europe. 
No war is necessary in Asia other than to retain our position in 
Korea and to arm the Japanese and Nationalist Chinese; but the 
Zionists urge that we must promptly send an estimated 100,000 
troops to Europe in order to protect Europe. 


In addition thereto we are told that we must draft our 18 
year old boys and tax ourselves to the extent of confiscation; and 
mobilize our resources and submit to Zionist bureaucratic gov- 
ernment and practice self denial. It is to be observed that Presi- 
dent Truman, with his yacht and plane and tax exemptions and 
his high salaried Zionist bureaucrats,—does not participate in 
the privations of war. And he proposes to wage a losing land war 
in Europe and to send our troops there regardless of Congress 
and of Germany. 


GENERAL IKE EISENHOWER 


I do not know whether Mr. Eisenhower is a Swedish Jew as 
he was reputed to be by his schoolmates at West Point. All that 
I know about him is “what I read in the papers.” And they give 
him a great deal of publicity. He is a socialist and is president of 
Columbia University, which has a number of socialist professors 
and is supported in part by the communist government of Poland. 
He was a receptive candidate for president on the democratic 
ticket in 1948 and supported by the A.D.A. and Franklin D. 
Roosevelt, Jr. and other Zionists. He is now a receptive candidate 
for president on the republican ticket and is supported by “me 
too” Dewey and the Zionists. Drew Pearson proposed that he be 
drafted as a bi-partisan candidate. He reported that President 
Truman said that “if Ike wants the job I’ll nominate him my- 
self.” 


—A2— 


He was appointed commander of the European Army by Tru- 
man and Acheson and the socialist governments of Britain and 
France. He was Franklin D. Roosevelt’s choice for commander of 
our European Army in the last war. He gave the order that re- 
quired General Patton to halt his army in order to permit the 
bolsheviks to capture Berlin, which later made it necessary for 
us to employ the air lift to feed the people. He stationed Negro 
soldiers in Berlin who rounded up 4,000 German girls in a tunnel 
and ravished them. He did not punish these infernal black fiends 
for their terrible crimes. 


President Truman sent him on a tour to Germany and our 
other proposed Atlantic allies. He is reported to have shed croco- 
dile tears over the grave of General George Patton, of whom he 
was intensely envious, and to have told the German people that 
he once hated them but now needs their help and that he is will- 
ing to “let by-gones be by-gones.” 


EISENHOWER’S REPORT TO CONGRESS 


The Associated Press of Feb. 1, 1951 stated that General 
Eisenhower “in glittering military uniform” reported the results 
of his European trip to a joint session of Congress. 


He stated that the French would furnish 25 divisions by 1952 
or 1953; and that Great Britain and Norway would fight, but did 
not specify the troops; that he thought he could assemble an 
army of 6 or 700,000 soldiers; that he was opposed to “dragoon- 
ing the Germans;” that we must send troops to Europe or 
ses tan away and suffer economic atrophy and then finally 
collapse.” 


Commenting on HEisenhower’s oration, Senator Johnson, 
democrat of Colorado, said: 


“The general character in the General’s report was very 
general. I could find no disagreement with the generalities.” 


It is to be observed that the General recognizes that he can 
only get German support by “dragooning’”’ them, which he does 
not want to do. Congressman Gross of Iowa expressed his esti- 
mate of the Eisenhower report as follows: 

“According to Eisenhower, if England, if France, if Italy, 
if all the rest can rise to the patriotic grandeur, we might not 
need some help. 

“Does he mean the kind of help we are not getting in Ko- 
rea? In other words and according to the Eisenhower fermu- 
la, if we will provide the ham we will be sure to have ham 
and eggs, if we will also provide the eggs.”* 


*Congressional Record, Feb. 5, 1951, page 1023. 
—43— 


The European countries can not be defended without German 
help, and the Germans are not likely to enlist under Eisenhower. 
His selection as commander is, of course, acceptable to the com- 
munist British Secretary of Defense Shinwell and to the commu- 
nist Louis Kahn, France’s Secretary of Defense, and to our Sec- 
retary of State Dean Acheson, and Felix Frankfurter, for it in- 
sures the communism of Europe and probably of the world; and 
it insures our defeat. 


AMERICAN TROOPS TO EUROPE 


President Truman appears to have asked Congress for au- 
thority to send four divisions, 72,000 men, to Germany, despite 
his defiant statement that he would send them regardless of 
Congress. It is reported that we now have two divisions in Ger- 
many. The Zionists claim that such a small force is insufficient 
and that in case of attack may be destroyed. Obviously this is 
true, and it is also true that six divisions may also be destroyed 
if the attacking force is large enough. 


What do these 36,000 men do in Germany? What business 
have we or they in Germany? How much have they cost us and 
are they now costing us? Who is keeping them there and by what 
authority and for what purpose? Why not bring them home, to- 
gether with John J. McCloy and the Zionist Benjamin Butten- 
weiser, and permit the Germans to govern themselves? 


The 72,000 troops are not enough to defend Europe against 
the many millions of Russia and China. President Truman has 
warned us that the Europeans will soon need a million men for 
their defense and that we must increase our army to 3,500,000 
men aus further increase our taxes,—but that still will not be 
enough. 


We are headed for another destructive war. What is the 
purpose of it, and who are the aggressors? Stalin accuses 
“Wall Street” which he aptly and truthfully calls our “ruling 
class.” Wall Street accuses Stalin and his Politburo, saying that 
they are constitutional liars, will not abide by their compacts 
and plan to conquer the world. They each tell the truth about the 
other. They are both governed by Zionists and their objectives 
are the same. They both seek to establish a Zionist Empire and to 
enslave the Christians. The war is primarily directed against the 
United States because we are now the principal bulwark of Chris- 
tianity and freedom. Destroy us, fortify the United Nations, and 
they have their Empire. 


These four divisions (72,000 men) are but an entering 
wedge,—the beginning of an endless demand for troops for the 
defense of Europe. The Europeans will eventually get the most 
of our troops, our munitions and our wealth. It is a lying treach- 
erous scheme to destroy and enslave us. It is a second trap by the 
same traitors who set the first one, and for the same purpose. 


Ade: 


England, France, Italy and East Germany are partially com- 
munist. The greater part of Europe is now governed by either 
socialists or communists. It is their privilege. The Europeans 
have the right to have the sort of government they want without 
let or hindrance from us. Communism will defeat itself if the 
people do not want it. Wars will not destroy it; they will only ag- 
gravate it. America will not “wither away and die” if we refuse 
to send an army to Europe, as General Hisenhower asserts. We 
have lived and thrived with all kinds of European governments 
and will continue to do so provided we ourselves maintain a good 
government. 


STALIN’S THREAT 


It is reported that Stalin threatens that if we re-arm West- 
ern Germany that Russia will invade her. We can not regard this 
as an idle threat, for it is the logical move for Russia to make. 
Nor will the Germans and our alleged allies so regard it. The 
probability is that if President Truman sends troops to Europe, 
as he threatens to do, he will initiate war on the European front 
while we are as unprepared for it there as we were in Korea. 


BOMB RUSSIA 


If it is true, as the President asserts, that the communists 
are determined to conquer and rule the world, and that they will 
not abide by their agreements,—then there can be no negotiated 
peace with them, and war is inevitable, and the sooner we have it 
and get it behind us the better. We can now win it with the A 
bomb. As destructive as it is, we should employ it, for it is not 
an more so than a long war. We should bomb Russia without 

elay. 


Major General Orville A. Anderson, commandant of the Air 
War College, is reported by the Associated Press on September 
1, 1950 to have said: 


“To assume that the Russians won’t use their A bombs 
if we sit by and watch them build them is a dangerous as- 
sumption ... Give me the order to do it and I can break 
Russia’s five A bomb sites in a week. And when I went up 
to Christ I think I could explain to Him that I had saved 
civilization.” 

Why has not the order been given? Why is it necessary to 
draft one million men and increase taxes and empower the 
President to control prices and our economy if the war can be 
terminated in a week’s time? The obvious answer is that Truman 
does not want to destroy the bogey-man. It would destroy his 
prospective “welfare state.” 


45 


No one has challenged the truth of General Anderson’s dec- 
laration, but the Administration answered it by discharging 
him. By bombing and destroying Russia’s five bomb factories 
they would destroy the bogey-man by which they scare us into 
appropriations and into war, and the eventual “welfare state” 
and a communist dictatorship with Zionist dictators. It has been 
suggested that we use the bomb on the Chinese soldiers who have 
crossed the Yalu River. But these ignorant soldiers do not know 
what it is all about. If we must use the bomb in war, the Krem- 
lin in Moscow is the proper target. 


THE WELFARE STATE 


The purpose of all these shenanigans is the establishment of 
a Truman dictatorship and a Zionist welfare state. That is what 
the Zionists have in Russia, with Stalin as dictator. That is what 
Congress has delegate in the War Production Act of 1950, pro- 
posed by Baruch and advocated by Morgenthau. That is what 
Truman advocates. 


God alone can save us from a dictatorship and communism. 
He will do so if we will only do our part and trust Him and 
serve Him. We do not deserve His help for we elected Roosevelt 
and Truman, and the representatives in Congress who have 
granted Truman the powers of a dictator. 


10. 
DICTATORSHIP 


In a radio speech December 15, 1950, the President an- 
nounced an emergency and the appointment of Charles E. Wilson 
as Director of Mobilization to mobilize our resources and man- 
power. Soon thereafter he departed in his private yacht, the 
Williamsburg, for a pleasure cruise. He said in his pronouncement 
that certain articles were in scarce supply (steel and copper) 
and should be rationed immediately and that he would specify 
others later. This is the Baruch Zionist scheme for the purpose 
of creating a dictatorship, and not for increasing production, as 
they pretend. 


This plan of “increasing production” originated during the 
Wilson administration and Baruch was our first “War Production 
czar.” It has never yet “increased production” but it has always 
-hampered it and created bureaucratic government with Zionist 
bureaucrats, and that is the present purpose. 


PRICE AND WAGE CONTROL 


The President actively opposed the resolution to empower a 
congressional committee to determine when and to what extent 
wage, price and rationing controls should be imposed on our econ- 
omy. He sought to obtain a free hand to regulate it, when and 
as long as he pleased, and Congress granted it to him by a bi- 
partisan vote. This means that Frankfurter, Rosenman, Neyhaus 
(Niles), Acheson, and other Zionists and pro-Zionists will be our 
dictators. This means also that the communist Zionists will be 
in control of our government and our economy during the period 
of the war and probably long afterwards. 


Price and wage control and bureaucracy are wholly unneces- 
sary. If this war is in fact only “police action’ to enforce the 
order of the United Nations, we can accomplish it with 200,000 
or 300,000 soldiers and without straining our economy; and we 
can prepare for a still greater war without doing so. In fact, 
price and wage controls will hamper us. 


_ Truman said apologetically as to price and wage control that 
“Sn these fields where price control is imposed, the government 


—AT— 


will also undertake to stabilize wages, as the law requires.” He 
said also, “in the immediate future a series of control orders will 
be issued by the Economic Stabilization Agency.” DiSalle is the 
stabilizer, Symington is the Co-ordinator, Valentine was then at 
the head of the N.R.B. or the N.P.A., and Ching of the E.S.A. 
All of these bureaus have been created by the President and sal- 
aries fixed and duties prescribed, in violation of our Constitu- 
tion. The principal purpose appears to be to hold down prices and 
wages, which is also the purpose in part of the Director of Mo- 
bilization. 

Truman showed his contempt for Congress by usurping these 
powers while Congress was in session. The members of Congress 
are our elected representatives. They alone can create offices, 
prescribe their duties and fix their salaries. They have the power 
to remove the president, withdraw from the United Nations and 
the Atlantic Pact. They have the exclusive power to create emer- 
gencies and the office of Director of Mobilization and to pre- 
scribe his salary and duties; the President can only recommend. 


In his speech of December 15, 1950 he said: “I am establish- 
ing an office of Defense Mobilization. I am appointing Charles 
E. Wilson to be director of this office.” Observe the “I am estab- 
lishing an office,” not that “I establish it subject to the approval 
of Congress.” He announced that Wilson had accepted, and gave 
him power to ration certain materials, which he said were 
scarce; and said that he would ask Congress for additional 
power. 


We don’t know much about Wilson other than that he is 
president of the General Electric Company, that this company 
is a huge monopoly and that it is controlled by the Zionists of 
Wall Street. He will be more useful to the Zionists as our dictator 
than as president of this company. The press reported that Wil- 
son appointed Sydney Weinberg of the international Zionist 
banking firm of Goldman, Sachs & Co., as his assistant and that 
Weinberg would select his staff. It does not require the gift 
of prophecy to predict that they will all be Zionists, and that 
Weinberg will be our actual dictator. Wilson and Clay, who is 
at the head of the Continental Can Company, another Zionist 
outfit, are only ornamental Christian (?) stooges. The firm of 
Goldman, Sachs & Co. is a Rothschild agency. The Rothschild 
money power has bankrupted and destroyed the British Empire 
and they plan to bankrupt and destroy our government. 


We do not need a dictator to make us work or to increase 
production. If given the incentive we will do the work. Congress 
should dismiss the director of mobilization, and economic and 
price stabilizers and permit the just law of supply and demand 
to operate. We will produce more if permitted to do so under our 
free enterprise system than under bureaucratic control. One is 
freedom, which we love; the other is slavery, which we abhor. 


—Ag— 


We work for profit as an incentive, and not from compulsion 
and fear of punishment. God made us that way. What if we do 
make money! The government gets a large part of it in taxes. 
What if we have a little inflation! It makes it the easier to pay 
our taxes and debts. 


It is infinitely more important to get rid of the traitors in 
our government than to increase production, or create a bureau 
for that purpose. We can’t win the war with traitors running it; 
or through the United Nations or the Atlantic Pact. 

I nominate General Douglas McArthur for commander-in- 
chief of our armed forces with power to use the atom bomb 
when and where needed. If appointed, we will win the war speed- 
ily; I predict that it will not continue ninety days longer, and 
will save multiplied thousands of our young men and our gov- 
ernment. 


MOBILIZATION PLAN 


The Magazine Time reported in its issue of Jan. 29, 1951, 
that: 

“The same day that Mobilizer Wilson sounded the call for 
industrial control President Truman announced that if ‘vol- 
untary measures failed’ he would use his present powers and 
ask Congress for additional ones... 

1) to tell employers the numbers and kinds of workers 
they may have, 2) see that individuals serve in the jobs for 
which they are best fitted, 3) require the hiring of women 
and members of minority groups, 4) import workers from 
friendly countries if necessary.” 


This is the scheme of Frankfurter and other Zionists to es- 
tablish their dictatorship and to enslave us. It will be put into 
effect unless Congress intervenes. 


The plan appears to be to send our able bodied men and boys, 
18 years old and up, to Europe, and put the women to work in 
the factories and to import aliens (minority groups) to take 
their places. Thus we will lose our government and our liberty. 


This action is the result of an “emergency” which the Presi- 
dent illegally declared, and to enforce “police action” by the 
United Nations which he illegally undertook to do. It is the 
scheme of a power mad President and his power mad Zionist 
advisers to overthrow our government. It is for the pretended 
purpose of increasing production for a war that Russia has not 
declared and is not in position to wage. 


USURPATION OF POWER 


These acts of usurpation are in themselves sufficient grounds 
for the impeachment of President Truman. He flaunts our Con- 


—49— 


stitution and ignores our Congress. He delivers our Government 
to the Zionists of Wall Street and the Zionist United Nations. 


“Upon what meat doth this our Caesar feed, 

That he is grown so great? Age, thou art sham’d! 
Rome, thou hast lost the breed of noble bloods! 
When went there by an age, since the great flood, 
But it was fam’d with more than with one man?’’* 


We do not need a dictator to mobilize us and our activities, 
but we do need a patriot to purge our government of traitors and 
to win the Russo-Chinese war. I nominate fighting Senator Joe 
McCarthy for that job. The emergency now exists and the Presi- 
dent has declared it. Congress should confirm it and adopt the 
remedy. Give Senator McCarthy all of the authority that Tru- 
man has given or proposes to give Wilson, with the authority 
to withdraw from the United Nations and the Atlantic Pact, to 
use the A bomb, and to purge our government of traitors and to 
prosecute them. 


IMPEACHMENT AND PROSECUTION 


Truman intervened in the Korean War for the purpose of 
creating a dictatorship. There is strong demand for the impeach- 
ment of the President and Acheson, and they should be im- 
peached and prosecuted. Truman’s administration was impeach- 
ed oy ae electorate in the November election. Congress should 
confirm it. 


The prosecution of Truman’s administration should include his 
appointees and assistants, Frankfurter, Acheson, et al. There 
is ample ground for Truman’s impeachment and prosecution in 
the fact that he was selected by the traitors Roosevelt and Hill- 
man to betray the United States, and he has done so. Every im- 
portant act of his administration has been one of treachery and 
deceit; his selection of the communist traitor Niles, Frankfurter, 
Acheson, et al, as his advisers; his adherence to the socialist 
treacherous United Nations; his euchering us into the war with 
Russia and China; and his usurpation of power. 


I grant that these are radical measures but our liberty is at 
stake. However, they are not any more radical than those pro- 
posed by the President and those by which he and his predecessor 
have brought us to this unhappy state. We must undo, as far as 
possible, everything they have done during the past twenty years 
of their rule, and put Truman where he cannot continue to in- 
jure us. 





*¥rom Shakespeare’s “Julius Caesar.” 
—50— 


INDICTMENT 


Harry Solomon Truman should be impeached and prosecuted 
as a traitor, upon the following grounds: 


1. He seeks to subordinate our government to the United 
Nations, a world super government; 


2. He has selected communist traitors as his advisors, 
viz: Dean Acheson, Felix Frankfurter, David Niles, et al., 
and his administration is governed by their advice; 


3. He seeks to destroy our government by war and ex- 
cessive taxation; 


4. He seeks to establish himself as a dictator and has 
usurped the powers of one; 


5. He involved us in the disastrous Korean war with 
Russia and China without authority of Congress; 


6. He has ratified the treachery of Dean Acheson who 
seeks to bring about our defeat in this war; 


7. He has not the moral character or intellectual ability 
or the integrity to fill the highest office of government: 
he is either a Zionist or a Zionist stooge; 


8. He is a socialist or communist and seeks to destroy 
_ constitutional government and to establish a welfare state; 


9. He failed or refused to enforce the Internal Security 
Act; and 


10. He made the Potsdam agreement with the communists, 
giving them control of Berlin and East Germany for the 
purpose of destroying Germany and promoting communism. 


Impeachment is a slow and an inadequate remedy. President 
Truman and his accomplices, including Acheson, Frankfurter, 
Lehman, Niles, Marshall, Morgenthau, et al., should be prose- 
cuted and punished for treason and as conspirators to commit 
treason, and the President should be suspended from office 
pending trial. We are fighting for our lives and our liberty and 
Christianity, and we cannot win with delays and technicalities 
and with traitors controlling our government. We can have a 
mass trial of them as conspirators, where the acts of one is evi- 
dence against the others. It may be preferable to have two tri- 
bunals and two mass trials, one of the traitors and the other of 
the communist Zionists. 


Congress should then elect a president to serve out Truman’s 
unexpired term. This is indeed a beter system than our present 
electoral system. It is defensible as an emergency measure at this 
time, and more so than price and wage control, for there will 


Ses 


be a real emergency and not a “cooked up” one. We need a 
patriot as President, who believes in our system of government. 


President Truman’s first message to the 81st Congress is 
sufficient ground for his impeachment, for his “Point Four” 
program is in plain violation of our Constitution and his oath 
of office. He swore to uphold and defend the Constitution, which 
he has not done. His Point Four program was not only unconsti- 
aoe but involved a change of our government toe a Welfare 

tate. 


There can be no reasonable doubt about the treachery of 
Dean Acheson. He has surrounded himself with traitors, and his 
foreign administration has been in the interest of Bolshevik 
Russia and Zionist Wall Street and Zionist Israeli. His adminis- 
tration of our tariff has been and is to destroy American in- 
dustries. He condoned the treachery of Alger Hiss; and his law 
partner is the communist Donald Hiss. 


President Truman clings to Acheson knowing him to be a 
traitor, and despite universal protest. He is reported to have 
defiantly said in one of his press conferences that Acheson would 
remain Secretary of State as long as he (Truman) remained 
ee Let them both go together, for they are “birds of a 
feather.’ 


What more could an enemy have done to us than Acheson 
and Truman have accomplished surreptitiously? They disarmed 
us so that Russia might communize the world. They seek to give 
Russia all of Asia for that purpose. They seek to destroy our 
economy and to communize us by free trade and deflation and 
pias aoe Four program. Impeach them and prosecute them 
as traitors. 


11. 
ZIONISTS 


Zionists simply cannot live peaceably with Christians, pri- 
marily because they are anti-Christ and anti-Christian. Our 
moral and political principles and our laws are based on our 
Christian religion, to which the Zionists are opposed. The moral 
and political principles of the Zionists are based on their Talmud, 
which is anti-Christ and anti-Christian. The Protocols represent 
their political code. They explain the history of the world since 
they were promulgated, for the Zionist Jews have directed it. 

The remedy is obvious. It is the age old remedy that has been 
adopted by every Christian country, and some of them twice,— 
England, France and Spain: It is the expulsion of the Zionists. 
It has always been followed by long periods of peace and happi- 
ness in the country that applied it. 


Jewish historians admit that it is their religion and rabbis 
that have prevented their assimilation with other races. They 
denounce segregation on the part of Christians, but they them- 
selves practice it; segregation is a part of their religion. The 
Christian is a rare exception who attends a Jewish synagogue 
or has ever been present at a B’nai B’rith meeting; and no Chris- 
tian is or ever has been a member of the anti-Defamation League 
or anti-Nazi League. They are strictly closed to Christians for 
they are anti-Christian and anti our system of government. 


ZIONIST DEPRESSIONS 


I have personal knowledge of all of our depressions since 1907 
and including it, and can, therefore, write with authority regard- 
ing them. In 1907 I was president of the Stock Yards National 
Bank of Fort Worth and owned three private banks, viz: Geo. 
W. Armstrong & Co., at Sour Lake, Saratoga and Batson. Sud- 
denly and without warning the officers of all of the banks of the 
country woke up to the fact that they could not get the money 
with which to conduct their business. 

Under the system that then prevailed, the banks were re- 
quired to deposit their reserves in banks in reserve cities, and 
the banks of New York City were the central reserve banks. The 
New York banks refused to pay their customer banks which in 


a1 6o- 5 


turn caused all other banks to refuse to pay their customers. The 
New York banks were then the ultimate reservoirs of both cur- 
rency and credit. Congress created the Pujo Committee to inves- 
tigate the cause, and the Aldrich Commission to find a remedy. 
George F. Baker, president of the First National Bank of New 
York, James B. Forgan, president of the First National Bank of 
Chicago, and George M. Reynolds, president of the Continental 
Commercial of Chicago, were witnesses before the Pujo Commit- 
tee. All of them testified with singular unanimity that there was 
a “money trust” and that it should be curbed. The Aldrich Com- 
mission conducted an extensive investigation and recommended 
a system which is substantially our present Federal Reserve 
system. | . 


~The frame work of the bill was written by Paul Warburg 
of Kuhn, Loeb & Co., (who was the actual author of the bill), 
Davidson of J. P. Morgan & Company, and F. A. Vanderlip, 
president of National City Bank, at a rendezvous on Jekyll 
Island. The bill, in its original form, provided for a central bank- 
ing system, but there was opposition to it by Wm. J. Bryan 
and Senator Robert L. Owen of Oklahoma and others, with the 
result that it was amended, and the original act provided for a 
decentralized, locally controlled system. It was, in fact, a good 
banking measure, but these amendments were all soon changed. 


The system is now a slick money and credit hoarding and 
manipulating device and it now controls the economy of the 
country. It brought about the depressions of 1920, which bank- 
rupted me, and of 1930 and 1937. The Zionist New York banks 
still dominate it and still control our volume. of money and our 
economy. Tom McCabe, president of a Morgan institution, is now 
chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and is the active head 
of it. They have recently applied the screws on installment buy- 
ing and warned the banks to restrict credit, which they will not 
disregard. We will have a depression when the management of 
the Federal Reserve system decrees it, which will be when the 
Zionist bankers want it. 


IMPORTANCE OF VOLUME OF MONEY IN CIRCULATION 


Our prosperity is dependent on the volume of money in cir- 
culation. Increase the volume and we will have high prices and 
wages, called “inflation.” There is no need for an O.P.A. to regu- 
late them. The Zionists manipulate our Federal Reserve System 
and inflate to “let the suckers in,” and deflate to ‘“‘squeeze them 
out,” and thus the Zionists have acquired through their control 
of the exchanges, the greater part of the wealth of the world. 


I became a student of the money system and its Zionist au- 
thors following my bankruptcy in 1923. I wrote “The Crime of 
20,” “The Calamity of ’30,” “The Iniquitous Dawes Scheme,” 
and. “A State Currency System,--To Hell With Wall Street,” 


oA 


which were followed by my discussions of the Zionists and their 
wars. .. : 


I made an independent race for governor of Texas in 1932 
upon “A State Currency System—To Hell with Wall Street,” as 
my platform, and was defeated. I entered the race for the demo- 
cratic nomination but withdrew upon the nomination of Franklin 
D. Roosevelt for president upon a so-called “sound money” (gold 
standard) democratic platform. 


BANISH THE ZIONISTS 


Jewish usury and deception and greed became so offensive to 
the Christians of other countries that they brought about Jewish 
pogroms where Jews were killed without trial and without ex- 
ception. The mere fact that they were of Jewish blood was a 
warrant of death or expulsion. We, however, have a few good 
Jews and there were a few good ones ‘at the time they crucified 
our Saviour. It takes rare courage to be a Christian Jew, for they 
are always ostracized by the Zionist Jews. Christian Jews should 
not be punished simply because they have Jewish blood. 


It is quite easy to segregate them for they have separated 
themselves into groups of “reformed” Jews and “synagogue” 
Jews. They have further separated themselves in their societies, 
the B’nai B'rith, the Anti-Defamation League, the Anti-Nazi 
League, etc. Every synagogue Jew and every member of the B’nai 
B’rith should be presumed to be a Zionist communist until proven 
otherwise; and contra, every reformed Jew is presumptively a 
good American citizen. All member of the A.D.L. and A.N.L. 
should be expelled. 


The Zionists have pointed out the judicial remedy in their 
Nuremberg mass trial. Congress has taken a long step in the 
right direction in the enactment over President Truman’s veto 
of the Internal Securities Act of 1950, but which is not likely to 
be enforced as long as Truman is president. It commands the 
Administration to imprison the traitors in concentration camps. 
Our sense of justice and our judicial system require that they 
be tried before impartial judges and punished according to their 
guilt. The active traitors should be executed and their ill-gotten 
wealth confiscated, and the others banished. 


This will be a vast improvement over the Zionist Nuremberg 
farce where the judges were all Zionists or pro-Zionists and made 
fascism (anti-Semitism) and the service of government, crimes, 
and prescribed penalties for them. Ignominious death and confis- 
cation of property is the ancient common law penalty for traitors. 
It is a just penalty for the rich Zionist Wall Street Jews because 
they have acquired our wealth fraudulently and illegally through 
their Zionist made wars and depressions. 

.The effect will be not only to rid our nation of traitors, but 
to restore its solvency. We should restore the solvency of other 


= Ree 


Christian countries by appropriating the wealth of the minerals 
of the Dead Sea and surrounding countries, and dividing it 
among them, which would ipso facto destroy the State of Israeli. 
This wealth belongs to us by right of conquest, and if it is as rich 
as it is reputed to be, it will revive every Christian country. If it 
is taken from the Zionists they will quickly abandon the State of 
scree and migrate elsewhere, and will also abandon their United 
ations. 


INDICTMENT 


I indict the Zionists of Wall Street and their stooges upon the 
following charges: 


1. That they initiated the first world war by sinking the 
passenger ship Lusitania during the war between Germany 
and England and France, blaming the act on the Germans. 
We entered the war for the pretended purpose of establish- 
ing the freedom of the seas, as declared by President Wilson; 
and it resulted in the League of Nations;* 


2. That they initiated the second world war through the 
treacherous destruction of our Pacific fleet with about 3,000. 
of our Navy at Pearl Harbor during a second war between 
the allies and Germany and Japan;t 


3. That the purpose of both the League of Nations and 
the United Nations was to destroy our nationality and sys- 
tem of government, and to subordinate them to a world 
government ;** 


4. That the United Nations charter was created under 
the auspices of Secretary of State Edward Stettinius, of the 
firm of J. P. Morgan & Co., at a convention in San Francisco, . 
of which the traitor Alger Hiss was chairman. The charter 
is reported to have been written by Jacob Pasvolsky and 
Alger Hiss, both of the State Department. The purpose was 
to establish a Zionist World Empire; 


5. That the Zionists were responsible for the concessions 
made by Roosevelt at Quebec, Teheran and Yalta, and Tru- 
man at Potsdam; and for the Morgenthau plan; 





*The Zionists’ responsibility is admitted in the British Secret Report No. 
1919, called the “Col. E. M. House Letter” which is discussed in my pamph- 
lets “High Treason” and “The Zionists.” 

tThere has never been an impartial investigation of the traitors responsible 
for this catastrophe. It has been white-washed and hushed up twice. It re- 
sulted in the United Nations. 

**The League of Nations Charter was created by Woodrow Wilson, Lloyd 
George of England and Clemenceau of France. Wilson’s adviser was Bernard 
Baruch; Lloyd George had as his adviser Philip Sassoon, and Clemenceau’s 
adviser was Georges Mandel (Jeroboam Rothschild). Sassoon and Mandel 
were descendants of Amschel Rothschild. : 


ae foe 


6. That they promoted the infamous Nuremberg trials 
which resulted in the imprisonment and death of thousands 
of innocent men; 

7. That they seek to destroy our system of government 
and to communize us and our children; 

8. That they suppress the truth about their treacherous 
plans to destroy our government, by intimidation and cor- 
ruption. The following is a sample of their method. 


THE ANTI-NAZI LEAGUE 


One of the letters issued by the Anti-Nazi League to its mem- 
bers under date of October 20, 1950, fell into the hands of a 
friend of mine who passed it on to me. It is here re-produced: 


OGL peTTVo szo tudued 
0} ZNNGIUL OOVOIHD 943 UT SOUTT PBC SAT. 
kquedo morzy sem OFF TTS seoBuer -- poeoueu 





pyran 
~BO0A0L 


-Tz Atyavoy Lea st qotys -- epuvssedoid styuy 


- SWY_ 91004 ‘rem UvSTOY 043 JO 41898 OG COUT, 
*103930T SoueZ10me uv st sTUL 


SIOQUOR 120g 


{IV UPTO OUT FACTS SNOT OUT PTA «= FOCTANS 
OS6T ‘08 1090300 
O6t8-2 OD seucydee] NYSON ‘®8esppy ®140D 


AN ‘61 MHOA MAN * LIZULS W9P LSAM S9I 
‘oul ‘SLHSIY NYWNH NOIMWYHO OL 


BODMIG, MONGIOR “sere 
SLEZUOD “A VIG ‘CEN 
QGNASEVID Isnohy 


WSWAPEYD CoppaspspupUIpYY 

wowing ‘hy sanvf ‘408g 

ee0ps0ug fo pavog es 
gue es0Z9 


UIAWUZANG) TARWYG AG 
C66) NI GlqNnOy 


ANDVAT IZVN-ILNY ems 


pets 2e0ef 4seT CUM Te ou) BT STUL ‘“Suczzemr1y 
‘A OB100H ‘OITBUOTTTTw-T4 Tne sexer ey. fq petra 
-dus fouom st epue8edord sty, go yonm putyog 


*£14un00 OY} 1940 [TU slONVW-oTqQno14, yeTpung z10m107 
pues oTyTmeg-Tyue Aq pox,oeTJeol ST CUTT ems eu 





PeTTBO gotudered snottisnos ATuetTnoTQued @ BSuyysnd st 

ugtmg ‘sornsodxe ,fds woye, 043 £q pesnous vti106e4ysiyq 

eseid Jo e8eyueape Bute] °,SsouenTjuy ysTMosr, 

UO 18M UBEIOY 042 omBTQ 03 OF TQnd oy dn Zutszst 48 

‘£1guN0O eT} 1G0AO TTe Ss#utzoom BSuptpiog st ‘siexeu 
-oTQnory oseq, Jo sepeeT-Buzs ‘qQITWg “HT pTesey 


*uogsuTyseg 

UT SOTZTFATIOY BuyAqqoyT pus spusBvdorg But 7. 
-F9SOAULT 90474TmMM0D TBUOTEseuBUu0g e473 Aq ur8e0u00 
TeToTsso Jo yoefqns @ emo0eq eaey 04 SB panDUBApR 
ABZJ os APVOATS St UoTZVYTFe snorseBZuep sty] 







OTApY L0G Susy “WeTqoig MO’ Ud Pesnjudg sojTT 

SATPoOSaSOTG soupttpseq eBed {nj stqy yim pouvodde 

qanf seq -- UOT ZTPes OMTY-1EM OJ POYOTPUT GO0Ud 
ATJoom 48800 480m -- ROOUA AHL ‘+oTduexe 104 





ANGLINVZ XV 

aun NéBsO 
WawnvivA AIUENY 
NITARL, “Y NOLIDY 
WUVL ‘7 MVITHM NVEG 
; NWBIg NNVNWSHY 
NIBLSWEATIO KVIQ 
O1DuEg Very ty 
WANIG INO] CBI 

‘uf ‘vavag dq WwvITTHM ‘400g 
WEQOUNIS 5 GevNw 
.NOSNIGOY GIAVG 
ZLMOMIEV Y-RAY 
SSENV J ‘ONIANE 
NOCNINIVAY “7 WANLEy 
SOUMLO] “S) TIVNOG ‘AzY 
M107 ‘HK ‘A 
sanv{ ‘Wo NaHaaig ‘ATYy 
WENVIION ‘Hl NVHVESY 
ABauvy ‘ff unniuy 

C1UNVES NVITUYT “Cay 
GMVEVET BNA¥l BEY 
OUBENAEUS) VNNY ‘SOY 


»’Sovrz~dsuoo ystaor we st IBM STUY ++ wezoy Ut 
gfoq iano emoYy Sutade :sfes YOTyM “SQnTO ,S1OUZOM, YETUOTIVTOST 
0G} JO UBB10 OBvotyD 042 ‘HOTOA S.NHNOM ST eTdwexa 19qz0Uy 


{UY FSuTeBe Buyaysts Jo pweqysuy 1oTyTH pozszoddns 

Suyavey Ou uy Bucim etem BOTIOMY pue pUs{TBug uy, MOUS TTTA 

£2048FY orngny 38q3 seretoop ATyUeTOSUT Buyueoy gous uy ‘epto 

-tns s8,3upy190H exozeaq yenf TTTyoArnyD uoysuTm of Bupacsop uemreg 

£q 4uUes 19330T snofzozou oyy Jo 4utadeu @ 034 o8ed guorzzy 847% Jo 

JIOY poyoaop BUNijpPOZASPing oBvoyyy oyy ‘oertduexe uzeg_g ‘uotytsod 
peq ATAVT IMs B uoHe, sey ecsord oFenBuvel uvwmiepn ey. JO YyonyA 


a’ oTatssod fem Aue ut 

seo10s ZeTunum0g o43 drteq pus soy tddns 50 queumdtys pasyert TTta 

pus Awoue 044 WiTM SutyA10m ore LOUL °° BOLOY UT SOTITITZ SON 

JO Averqyno 044 10J psom ueaTs oaeg °**syspTuotz eal, safes 

‘systpusSedoid ueltimts pus Suor1ysmiy Word qsoddns [epfoueuts 
Wyte sesrof mo ut pousttqnd ATHoem-Tq eG} ‘ASNHS NONNOD 


‘Buty, ewes o43 

QnoQe UVOM TTS 4ISTUOTZ, PUG wISTUNUMIOD, ‘yMOLy, SPIOM OY 3VT} 
qJoosjo uy sondue STsTuot, Say pb ey mou 6,3u01ysmry ‘ondvey 
TZBN-Tyuy oy 4q peddogs pue pesodxs AT Inysseoones yotd eBnyq 

B -- quemMopUS 000‘000'OS$ BF UFTM ~OBOTIOO O30, BV COUBUTS 09 





WeUL FTO eee aan tA SHC 


*eorrouy 10930q @ 10J sz 


Etteu yxou oy, £q “Ltdeox anok avy ow Lem “svek stay eynqts4 
-uoo 0% uetTd zo poyngtiquoo Apeerte eavyg Lem nok BSuzyydue eaoqge 
pue 16AO -- UOT UNGTIZU0O LOUSBIOWS [BUOTYT PPS uw UT pues 04 
nok 04 Tvedde yf ‘uoTyengTs snoreBuep ALToeynoe Sty UTM UoTzooOU 
“u0O UT e0Vl MOU OM YOTUM STSTIO OYZ JO osneoeg pues -- eNnsveT 
FZVH-TyUy ogy so soqxOddns szetNZe1 wv useq Buot savy nox 


*(uostad UT S0UEqUeS B ButAIes Mou) davy 

ydesor 10 ‘suetqumtoD ey, ‘uuNY 24,1g ITM YTeOp om yey sem 

@ATJOOZJO oes 94} UT [TAS JO SYUBYOISW OgoNy AITM [VAP 9% ETQV 

eq TIT om he anof UTM ‘peposoons oavey om ‘u0Tz0B8 4anoo puV 

sesodxe oftTqnd Zuyunoes 03 zuyzod 944 03 UOTYSBTAseauT use Ysnory3 
£1180 03 Arevsseoou AQuUOM O44 PSY sey onNFvoy’ oy, 10OAQUOTA 





LOW Sf YOM 8, *mou ei erpaenedeca 

[tae oseyy doys pue esodxe 0% suvem 04} eAv YZoenm Om ‘U0TZR4 
“38 snoleSuep 19440 pue Us{TzTMeg-t4uB JO pooTs pozucpecerdun 
we £q peomoTTos oq 0% 30U ST 19M UBOLOW 0% JT *3210q8 UT 


This is my second warning and the second collection taken up 
by this “League” for use in “dealing with” me and others. The 
courageous columnist, Westbrook Pegler, said that the Anit-Nazi 
League is “a furtive spying organization conducted by Isidore 
Lipshutz, a Belgian immigrant.’’* It is in fact a lying, spying . 


Zionist communist criminal organization supported by Zionist 
communist criminals who seek to suppress the truth by bribery 
and otherwise. 


LIARS AND TRAITORS 


It is reported that this outfit has 2,000,000 members. It is an 
executive branch of Zionist Communists, of which the Zionist 
James Sheldon (whose true name is reported to be Aaron Sha- 
piro) is the “administrative chairman,’ but the real head is the 
Belgian alien Zionist Isidore Lipshutz, who is their vice-president 
and treasurer. 


They made a “special appeal” for money on my account on 
November 29, 1949, in order to “stop the hate factory” (quoting 
from their letter of that date.) They have not “stopped” me 
nor can they do so short of murder. I speak for Gerald L. K. 
Smith and other patriots named in the letter, in saying that 
each and every one of us would welcome death if necessary to 
save our Christian civilization and our freedom. Every one of us 
will be liquidated when and if the Zionists think they can safely 
have the job done. Our Lord and Saviour, Jesus Christ, de- 
nounced these bigoted Zionists as “liars, hypocrites and murder- 
ers,” and they murdered Him. So they were then, and so they 
are today. 


Their system is spying, lying, bribery and murder. It is the 
system which they employ in Russia and Poland and that they 
employed while they governed Germany and Hungary. It was the 
plan adopted in the Nuremberg trials and in the trials of Emory 
Burke, William D. Pelly and others. They seek always to suppress 
truth. This explains their anti-Semitic and “Genocide” cam- 
paigns, and the above letter. It is both their religion and their 
policy as revealed by their Talmud and Protocols. They are anti- 
Christ and anti-Christian. 


The Anti-Nazi League and the Anti-Defamation League are 
both communist Zionist societies with the same objectives, and 
composed of liars and traitors. The difference between them is 
that the Anti-Nazi League is financed and supported by volun- 
tary subscriptions and Isidore Lipschutz, while the Anti-Defama- 
tion League is financed and supported by the Zionist B’nai B’rith. 
They both seek the destruction of our government and of Chris- 





*The Anti-Nazi League is now taking up a collection for the suppression of 
Mr. Pegler. 


—62— 


tians who interfere with their plans. They both employ spies 
to gather and/or manufacture evidence about Christians; it is. 
reported that the A.D.L. has 2,000 of them. 


TRY THE ZIONISTS 


The American Zionists established the precedent for their 
own trials in the de-Nazification Nuremberg trials. They tried 
between two and eight million Germans in absentia. Senator 
Langer said of these trials that they were “a sham and not jus- 
tice,” and that they were “aimed at property rights.” It was in- 
tended to “try the accused aggressors, convict them of having 
started a war, and then confiscate their property as a penalty. 
Thus Moscow hoped to give a death blow to the capitalistic sys- 
tem.” He said further that “practically the entire prosecuting 
staff was composed of leftists, who since have been exposed as 
communists and. members of communist organizations.”* 


The British established a precedent for the banishment of 
the Zionists in their second expulsion of the Jews. The Parlia- 
ment enacted a law fixing a time limit for the exodus of the Jews. 
The act provided that any Jew found in England after a fixed 
date would be executed, which as I recall, was after six months; 
and the Jews migrated. 


. Our situation is different, but the precedent is. applicable. 
We have approximately 15,000,000 Jews and the British had 
only about 30,000. The Christian Jews estimated at from 15,000 
to 50,000, should be protected, and the law should apply only 
to Zionist Jews (communists). All of those remaining here after 
the expiration of the fixed period should be tried, ‘and if found 
guilty of Zionism, executed.. Membership in Zionist political or- 
ganizations such as the American Jewish Congress, Anti-Defama- 
tion League, and Anti-Nazi League should be conclusive proof of 
guilt. The probability is that they would migrate and that there 
would not be very many to try. : iz 


It is estimated that there are 20,000,000 Jews in the world 
and that we have about three-fourths of them. There has been a 
great influx during the Roosevelt and Truman administrations; 
and ‘it continues despite the internal Security Act of 1950. It is 
reported that they are now pouring in at the rate of 2,200 a day. 
The immigration officials are Zionist or pro-Zionist and have been 
for the past twenty years. 


TREASON AND TRAITORS 


' ‘Treason is the worst of all crimes. It is the only crime defined 
by our Constitution which declares that it shall “consist in levy- 
ing war against the United States or adhering to their enemies, 
*Congressional Record, Dec. 18, 1950, page 16874. , 


—63— 


giving them aid and comfort.” Chief Justice Marshall, in the 
case of the United States vs. Aaron Burr, held that there must 
be proof of an “overt act of treason by two witnesses,” for which 
he was hanged in effigy. The Constitution leaves it to Congress 
to fix the penalty. It should be death and confiscation of prop- 
erty. By the common law of England the penalty was “hanging 
Se by disemboweling and quartering,” and confiscation of 
prope 


The United States Supreme Court has held that eases is 
“ag breach of allegiance and can only by committed by one who 
owes allegiance.” It has also held that an alien while domiciled 
in a country owes a local and temporary allegiance, which con- 
tinues during the period of his residence. 


THE ROTHSCHILDS AND THEIR AGENTS SHOULD BE EX- 
ECUTED AND THEIR ILL-GOTTEN GAINS CONFISCATED 


These arch traitors are responsible for all of our wars, in- 
cluding the present war, and should be made to pay for them. 
Their conviction and punishment will establish world peace much 
more effectively than their United Nations. It will also restore 
the solvency of our country. 


The common run of Zionists should be banished to Rusia: 
the ancient home of the Khazar Jews, or to Madagascar. Let them 
establish their own government and make their own living from 
the soil, as we Anglo-Saxons have done. 


Let us have a mass trial of all of the Zionists, as they had 
of the fascists in Nuremberg, Germany, and punish them ac- 
cording to the degree of their guilt. Every statement in my 
book, “The Zionists,” is confirmed by their record and is true. 
The most of them are traitors and should be executed. They seek 
to destroy our Constitution and to promote a welfare state. None 
of them are loyal to our system of government. They are all 
communists or socialists. The spies and traitors that have been 
found in our State and other departments of government are, 
with few exceptions, Zionists. There are probably no exceptions, 
for those who appear to be gentiles may have only changed their 
names. They are our enemies and the enemies of our sven 
ment. 


WAKE UP! 


Wake up, my fellow Americans, wake up! I beseech you to 
wake up. The Zionists have clandestinely imposed on us a welfare 
state. They operate through Wall Street bankers and the labor 
leaders. They plan to communize our government and to trans- 
form it into a dictatorship. The principal danger is not from 


aga 


Communist Russia but from Zionist Wall Street and the labor 
leaders; it is not from Stalin, but from Truman and Frankfurter 
and Acheson and Green and Murray and Reuther. 


We have had two Zionist or pro-Zionist scalawag presidents 
—Roosevelt and Truman—and nineteen years of Zionist rule in 
the Executive Department of our government. The Zionists are 
extremely influential in both our judicial and legislative depart- 
ments. They dominate our financial and economic and publicity 
systems. We are well on the road to their Zionist World Empire 
and our slavery. Awake, my fellow Americans, awake, I beseech 
you. 


12. 
ISOLATIONISM 


The Associated Press of December 20, 1950 quoted former 
President Herbert Hoover as saying in a radio address: 


“America’s defense lines must be the Atlantic and Pa- 
cific Oceans and not the continents of Europe or Asia. Any 
attempt to make war on the Communist mass by land inva- 
sion through the quicksands of China, India or Western 
Europe would be sheer folly.” 


He said further that the prime responsibility of defending 
Europe rested on the Europeans and that “we should not land 
another man on their shores or lend them another dollar until 
they organized and equipped combat divisions of such huge num- 
bers as would erect a sure dam against the red flood.” 


He proposed “arming the United States Navy and Air Force 
to the teeth, and to hold the two oceans with possibly one frontier 
on Britain and the other on Japan, Formosa and the Philip- 
pines.” He said that “we have little need for large armies unless 
we are going to Europe or Asia.” He recommended that “we 
give Japan her independence and aid her in arms to defend her- 
self and stiffen the defenses of our Pacific frontier in Formosa 
and the Philippines.” 


This is the sage advice of a patriotic Christian statesman. He 
ignored the Atlantic Pact and the United Nations as peace agen- 
cies. We can save our government and Christian civilization by 
following it, and we cannot do so by following the Truman- 
ee ne route which is the sure road to de- 
struction. 


Please observe carefully President Hoover’s thoughtful lan- 
guage, to wit: “Until they have organized and equipped strong 
combat divisions,” which they can’t do without German help. 
They continue to destroy German factories and throw employees 
out of work, and they continue to refuse to accept the Germans 
except as enemies and inferiors. Observe his statement: “With 
possibly one frontier on Britain,” provided of course that the 
British government wants protection on these terms. He is evi- 


ae 


dently suspicious, as I am, that this is another Truman-Acheson 
trap. The British government may not want protection against 
communism; three members of her cabinet are avowed commu- 
nists and the others socialists. 


What a contrast between this great Christian pro-American 
republican patriot on the one hand and the pro-Zionist Eisen- 
hower who aspires to be commander of European troops and pro- 
Zionist “me too” Dewey who advocates sending 6,000,000 troops 
to Europe. If Congress adopts Mr. Hoover’s plan we will not need 
a@ substantial addition to our Army or a sales tax or a defense 
mobilizer, or economic stabilizer or price and wage control, or 
rationing or a dictator; and we will win the war and preserve 
our system of government and Christian religion without the 
sacrifice of thousands of our young men. 

President Truman said in reply that this program is “isola- 
tionism pure and simple,” which is anathema to the Zionists; 
and so chirped Dean Acheson and John Foster Dulles of the law 
firm of Sullivan & Cromwell, reputed to be attorneys for J. P. 
Morgan & Co., and other Zionists. What if it is? It was the for- 
eign policy of President Hoover and of every other President of 
the United States except the Jewish Woodrow Wilson and Frank- 
lin-D. Roosevelt and the pro-Zionist Harry Truman. It is true 
Ameriean policy and will save our country from bankruptcy and 
communism. ’ 

Led by Congressman Smith of Wisconsin, 118 independent 
republican members of Congress signed a bi-partisan ‘“Declara- 
tion of Policy.” It is a policy that every American who reveres 
our system of government will endorse. It is as follows: 


A Declaration of Policy 


“We, the undersigned, conceive that the present position 
of the United States is dangerous and its future tragic unless 
_ the Congress immediately undertakes a reexamination and 
revision of a foreign policy that in large part has been a 
costly failure. We submit the following as a suggested basis - 
for our foreign policy: 
1. Whatever our future military or political policy is to~ 
be, it must be determined with the full participation and ap- 
proval of the Congress. 


2. Make this country impregnable to attack. 
-. 3. Reduce nonessential civifian expenditures. 


4, Build a strong defense system in the Western Hemi- | 
sphere. 


—67— 


5. Establish a strong defense line in the Atlantic and 
Pacific. Refuse further aid of any kind to Western Europe 
unless persuaded that Western Europe is carrying its full 
share of the burden. In any case invite Britain and the Brit- 
ish Commonwealth of Nations to participate fully in this 
program. 
6. Conclude peace treaties with Germany, Japan, and 
Austria. 


Those who share our views are invited to join us ina 
fight for survival of American constitutional government and 
for America itself.”’* 


The Truman-Acheson-Frankfurter program means commu- 
nism with a dictator. This is obviously their purpose. They will 
select a pro-Zionist dictator whose powers will be expanded and 
never terminated. It may mean our military defeat. Probably that 
is also the purpose. But whether we are defeated or not, they 
will “spend” us into bankruptcy, which is the Lenin plan of com- 
munizing America. 


The President proposes to go ahead with his program whe- 
ther Germany co-operates or not. It is now clear that the people 
of Germany will not join us for they have said so by an over- 
whelming majority in plebiscites. It is reported that the people 
of the other European countries, including England, regard the 
Korean war as ours and wish to be neutral. The President asked 
‘Congress to increase our taxes and to provide 140 billion dollars 
for the war, and to draft a million more men to the armed serv- 
ices. It appears to be still another trap. 


There are two methods of establishing communism in Amer- 
ica with a dictatorship, and our traitors have adopted both of 
‘them, viz: (1) by conquest; and (2) by taxation. The 81st Con- 
gress increased the rate of taxation and enacted an excess profits 
tax, and the President proposes a still further tax increase. The 
Federal Reserve Board (of which McCabe, of a Morgan institu- 
tion, is chairman) has frozen two billion dollars of bank re- 
serves, which it is estimated will reduce the lending power of the 
banks twelve billion dollars. This is for the purpose of deflating 
values and impoverishing the people, and is a sure plan. It is the 
method by which all other deflations, since the creation of the 
iniquitous Federal Reserve System, have been brought about. 


WASHINGTON’S FAREWELL ADDRESS 


The father of our country, George Washington, prescribed 
our true fereign policy in his farewell address on September 17, 


*Congressiona! Record, Feb. 14, 1951, page 1800, 
—68— 


1796. Every president, and both political parties, have religiously 
adhered to it up to the time of the pro-Zionist internationalist, 
Woodrow Wilson, Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry S. Truman.* 


Washington, in his farewell address, said: 


“Against these insidious wiles of foreign influence (I 
conjure you to believe me, fellow-citizens), the jealousy of 
a free people ought to be constantly awake: since history 
and experience prove that foreign influence is one of the 
most baneful foes of republican government... 


“Real patriots, who may resist the intrigues of the favor- 
ite, are liable to become suspected and odious; while its tools 
and dupes usurp the applause and confidence of the people, 
to surrender their interest. ; 


“The great rules of conduct for us, in regard to foreign 
nations, is, in extending our commercial relations, to have 
with them as little political connexion as possible .. . 


“Our detached and distant situation invites and enables 
us to pursue a difference course. If we remain one people 
under an efficient government, the period is not far off when 
we may defy material injury from external annoyance; 
when we may take such an attitude as will cause the neu- 
trality we may at any time resolve upon, to be scrupulously 
respected; when belligerent nations, under the impossibility 
of making acquisitions upon us, will not lightly hazard the 
giving us provocation; when we may choose peace or war, aS 
our interest, guided by justice, shall counsel. 


“Why forego the advantages of so peculiar a situation? 
Why quit our own to stand upon foreign ground? Why, by 
interweaving our destiny with that of any part of Europe, 
entangle our peace and prosperity in the toils of European 
ambition, rivalship, interest, humor, or caprice? 


“It is our true policy to steer clear of permanent alliances 
with any part of the foreign world... 


“Even our commercial policy should hold an equal and 
impartial hand; neither seeking nor granting exclusive fa- 
vors or preferences ... constantly keeping in view, that it 
is folly in one nation to look for disinterested favors from 
another; that it must pay, with a portion of its indepen- 
dence, for whatever it may accept under that character; 
that by such acceptance it may place itself in the condition 
of having given equivalents for nominal favors, and yet of 
being reproached with ingratitude for not giving more. 


*The fundamental difference between Washington on the one hand and 
Wilson, Roosevelt and Truman on the other, is that Washington was a 
sincere patriot who could not tell a lie, and they were all hypocrites who 
could not tell the truth. 





wpe R 


‘There can be no greater error than to expect, or calculate 
upon, real favors from nation to nation. It is an illusion 
which experience must cure, which 2 just pride ought to 
discard.” 


That is isolationism. It means to stay at home and mind our 
own business. The internationalists claim that we need the 
United Nations to prevent wars, and for our protection. Senator 
Connally, chairman of the Committee on Foreign Relations, said: 
“We have the United Nations back of us and it will stay.” That 
is not true; we are back of them. The United Nations has been 
the occasion of our last three wars and it will continue to involve 
us in war. Instead of its protecting us we are now protecting it, 
and it will cease to exist when we cease to support it. We should 
take the necessary steps to liquidate it in an orderly manner. 


—T0— 


