O  SAN  FRANCISCO 


DEPARTMENT  OF  CITY  PLANNING  100  LARKIN  STREET  •  SAN  FRANCISCO,  CALIFORNIA  94102 


ODSDNVXJ  NVSO 


San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commission 
FINAL  ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT 

^  BANK  OF  AMERICA  DATA  PROCESSING  CENTER 

Parking  Structure 
Twelfth  and  Kissling  Streets 


EE  75.414 


May  26. 1977 


SAN  FRANCISCO 
PUBLIC  LIBRARY 

INFERENCE 
BOOK 


Not  to  be  taken  from  the  Library 


CHAPTER 

NUMBER  TITLE 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

SAN  FRANCISCO  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 


PAGE 


3  1223  03565  2065  1 


I  SUMMARY 

II              PROJECT  DESCRIPTION  2 

PHYSICAL  DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT  2 

Site  and  Site  Plan  2 

Proposed  Structure  3 

Project's  Relationship  to  Existing  Zoning  7 

DEVELOPMENT  PROGRAM  7 

PROJECT  OBJECTIVES  13 

Need  for  a  Parking  Garage  14 

Operation  of  the  Garage  14 

III              ENVIRONMENTAL  SETTING  16 

ECOLOGY  OF  THE  SITE  AND  THE  SURROUNDING  AREA  16 

LAND  USE  CHARACTERISTICS  OF  THE  SITE  AND  SURROUNDING  AREA  18 

Employment  in  the  Site  Area  26 

Residential  Population  27 

IV              ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACTS  29 

DEMOLITION  AND  CONSTRUCTION  PERIOD  29 

OPERATIONAL  IMPACTS  30 

Transportation  Impacts  30 

Impacts  of  Traffic  Noise  32 

Air  Quality  Impacts  32 

Impact  on  Public  Utilities  33 

Impact  on  Public  Services  36 

Impact  on  Public  Safety  37 

LAND  USE  IMPACTS  37 

NEIGHBORHOOD  CHARACTER  38 

ECONOMIC  AND  FISCAL  IMPACTS  38 

V             MITIGATION  MEASURES  41 

DEMOLITION  AND  CONSTRUCTION  IMPACTS  41 
(including  Archaeological) 


i 


Bank  of  America  data 
processing  center 
1977  = 


3.F.  PUBLIC  LIBRARY 
3  1223  03565  2065 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS,  continued 

CHAPTER 

NUMBER                                                        TITLE  PAGE 

V                   TRANSPORTATION  IMPACTS  41 

STREET  LITTER  44 

STRUCTURAL  44 

VI             UNAVOIDABLE  ADVERSE  ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACTS  45 

VII             ALTERNATIVES  46 

PHYSICAL  ALTERNATIVES  46 

Alternative  Locations  46 

Alternative  Development  Schedule:    No  Phasing  48 

Alternative  Design  48 

OPERATIONAL  ALTERNATIVES  49 

Alternative  Shuttle  Bus  Routings  and  Configurations  of 

Kissling  Street  49 

NO  PROJECT  ALTERNATIVE  INCLUDING  ALTERNATIVE  USES  51 

VIII             RELATIONSHIP  BETWEEN  THE  LOCAL,  SHORT-TERM  USE  OF  MAN'S 
ENVIRONMENT  AND  THE  MAINTENANCE  AND  ENHANCEMENT  OF  LONG- 
TERM  PRODUCTIVITY  54 

IX  IRREVERSIBLE  ENVIRONMENTAL  CHANGES  WHICH  WOULD  RESULT  FROM 

THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT  56 

X             GROWTH-INDUCING  IMPACTS  OF  THE  PROPOSED  ACTION  57 

XI              ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT  AUTHORS  AND  CONSULTANTS  58 

ORGANIZATIONS  AND  PERSONS  CONSULTED  60 

AREA  BUSINESSES  INTERVIEWED  62 

XII             BIBLIOGRAPHY  65 

XIII              DISTRIBUTION  LIST  67 

XIV             COMMENTS  AND  RESPONSES  69A 

XV             RESOLUTION  69P 

APPENDIX 

A             TRANSPORTATION  IMPACTS  70 

B             AIR  QUALITY  IMPACTS  121 

C              TRAFFIC  NOISE  IMPACT  ASSESSMENT  134 


ii 


LIST  OF  TABLES 

TABLE 

NUMBER                                                      TITLE  PAGE 

1  PHYSICAL  DIMENSIONS  OF  PROPOSED  PROJECT  3 

2  PROJECT  DEVELOPMENT  SCHEDULE  13 

3  PROJECT  ELECTRICAL  LOAD  34 

4  ESTIMATED  PROJECT  ELECTRICITY  CONSUMPTION  34 

5  TRAFFIC  IMPACTS  OF  OPERATIONS  ALTERNATIVES  ON  KISSLING 

STREET  51 

LIST  OF  FIGURES 

FIGURE 

NUMBER                                                    TITLE  PAGE 

1  SITE  OF  PROPOSED  BANK  OF  MIERICA  PARKING  GARAGE  2 

2  SITE  PLAN  AND  GROUND  FLOOR  PLAN  4 

3  REPRESENTATIVE  UPPER  FLOOR  PLAN  5 

4  ROOF  PLAN  6 

5  SECTION  OF  PROPOSED  STRUCTURE  8 

6  TWELFTH  STREET  ELEVATION  9 

7  KISSLING  STREET  ELEVATION  9 

8  LANDSCAPE  PLAN  10 

9  LAND  USE  ZONING  IN  THE  STUDY  AREA  11 

10  HEIGHT  AND  BULK  ZONING  IN  THE  STUDY  AREA  12 

11  SEISMIC  SAFETY  MAP  17 

12  VISUAL  SETTING  -  TWELFTH  STREET  SOUTH  OF  FOLSOM  STREET 
LOOKING  NORTH  19 

13  VISUAL  SETTING  -  KISSLING  STREET  FROM  TWELFTH  STREET  20 

14  VISUAL  SETTING  -  KISSLING  STREET  FROM  WEST  OF  TWELFTH 

STREET  20 

15  VISUAL  SETTING  -  TWELFTH  STREET  NORTH  OF  KISSLING  STREET 
LOOKING  SOUTH  21 

16  VISUAL  SETTING  -  TWELFTH  STREET  LOOKING  SOUTH  FROM 

HOWARD  STREET  21 

17  VISUAL  SETTING  -  KISSLING  STREET  FROM  ELEVENTH  STREET  22 

18  VISUAL  SETTING  -  KISSLING  STREET  FROM  EAST  OF  ELEVENTH 

STREET  22 


iii 


LIST  OF  FIGURES,  continued 


FIGURE 

NUMBER  TITLE  PAGE 

19  VISUAL  SETTING  -  KISSLING  STREET  MIDBLOCK  LOOKING  SOUTH  23 

20  VISUAL  SETTING  -  KISSLING  STREET  MIDBLOCK  LOOKING  NORTH  23 

21  LAND  USE  IN  THE  PROJECT  AREA  24 

22  ACCUMULATIVE  ELECTRICAL  DEMAND  LOAD  (average)  35 

23  ANNUAL  ACCUMULATIVE  ELECTRICAL  LOAD  CURVE  36 

24  PROFILE  FROM  HOWARD  STREET  39 

25  PROFILE  FROM  FOLSOM  STREET  39 

26  POTENTIAL  ALTERNATIVE  SITE  SEARCH  AREAS  47 

27  SHUTTLE  BUS  ALTERNATIVE  ROUTINGS:     KISSLING  STREET  TWO-WAY  50 

28  SHUTTLE  BUS  ALTERNATIVE  ROUTINGS:     KISSLING  STREET  ONE-WAY 
TOWARDS  TWELFTH  STREET  52 


iv 


J 

I 


I.  SUMMARY 


The  proposed  Bank  of  America  data  center  parking  structure  would  provide  about 
850  parking  spaces  for  bank  employees  who  work  at  the  existing  data  center  at  One 
South  Van  Ness  Avenue  and  who  will  work  at  the  data  center  now  under  construction 
on  the  block  bounded  by  Market  Street,  Tenth  Street,  Mission  Street,  and  Eleventh 
Street.     This  parking  structure,  the  first  of  one  or  more  planned  by  the  bank,  is 
designed  to  accommodate  a  portion  of  the  parking  demand  estimated  to  be  generated 
by  swing  and  midnight  shift  workers  in  the  year  2000,     Because  public  transportation 
is  operated  at  reduced  service  levels  during  evening  and  night  hours,  the  provision 
of  parking  is  considered  by  the  Bank  of  America  to  be  necessary  if  the  bank  is  to 
attract  and  retain  the  employees  it  needs  to  keep  the  data  center  functioning. 

The  parking  structure  would  replace  an  existing  industrial  building  on  an 
approximately  one-acre  site  at  the  southeast  comer  of  Twelfth  Street  and  Kissling 
Street.     The  structure  would  be  of  a  sloped-floor  design,  rising  five  stories 
(containing  six  parking  levels)  to  50  feet  above  ground  level.     Ingress  to  and 
egress  from  the  structure  would  be  on  Twelfth  Street,     Shuttle  bus  service  would 
be  provided  to  carry  bank  employees  the  approximately  one-half  mile  between  the 
structure  and  the  data  center,  because  of  the  24-hour  operation  of  the  data  center, 
although  it  is  expected  that  many  employees  would  choose  to  walk  during  daylight 
hours  in  fair  weather. 

The  main  impacts  of  the  parking  structure  are  expected  to  be  traffic  genera- 
tion and  air  quality  effects.    Approximately  4220  auto  and  shuttle  bus  trips  are 
expected  to  begin  or  end  at  the  parking  facility  every  day;  these  trips  are  expected 
to  create  near  capacity  situations  on  three  links  in  the  area  street  system.  The 
air  pollution  produced  by  this  traffic  is  projected  to  increase  carbon  monoxide 
concentration  in  some  areas;  however,  peak  air  pollution  levels  are  not  expected 
to  exceed  applicable  standards. 

Other  impacts  of  the  project  would  Include  the  demolition  of  the  existing 
structures  and  dedication  of  resources  to  the  new  structure.     Additional  pedestrian 
trips  would  be  generated  and  additional  business  for  auto  service  firms  in  the 
vicinity  of  the  project  might  be  generated,  although  the  users  of  the  structure 
would  not  likely  feel  any  identification  with  the  neighborhood  and,  therefore, 
could  tend  to  impact  the  neighborhood  character  in  a  less  positive  manner  than 
other  uses.     The  project  would  add  landscaping  to  the  site,  result  in  permanent 
employment  of  nine  people  and  generate  about  $75,000  annually  in  additional  property 
tax  revenue. 

This  report  discusses  mitigation  measures  designed  to  minimize  impacts  of 
the  project  during  construction  and  after  completion.    Measures  applied  to  traffic 
impacts  include  ride-pooling  encouragement,  an  allocation  system  for  the  limited 
amount  of  parking  for  day  shift  employees,  converting  Kissling  Street  into  a  one- 
way street  and  phasing  of  parking  accommodation  over  time.    Mitigation  measures 
concerning  structural  design  include  provision  of  open  walls  wherever  possible  to 
allow  natural  air  circulation. 

The  report  also  presents  alternatives  to  the  project,  including  provision 
of  parking  at  the  data  center  itself,  provision  of  parking  at  another  location, 
provision  of  all  parking  now  instead  of  over  time,  construction  of  a  horizontal 
floored  structure,  alternative  shuttle  bus  routings  and  configurations  of  Kissling 
Street,  and  no  project,  which  includes  discussion  of  alternative  uses  of  the  existing 
structures. 


-  1  - 


II.  PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


PHYSICAL  DESCRIPTION  OF  THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT 

Site  and  Site  Plan 

A  parking  facility  serving  the  data  processing  complex  of  the  Bank 
of  America  is  proposed  for  a  site  located  in  the  City  and  County  of  San 
Francisco  on  Twelfth  Street  between  Howard  and  Folsom  Streets,  as  indi- 
cated in  Figure  1. 


Figure  1:     SITE  OF  PROPOSED  BANK  OF 
AMERICA  PARKING  GARAGE 


o  *oo 

SCALE  IN  FEET 


-  2  - 


The  proposed  project  would  occupy  47,466  square  feet  at  the  site 
of  Lot  19  of  Assessor's  Block  3516.     This  site  is  currently  occupied  by 
industrial  buildings,  one  of  which  is  three  stories  and  the  other  one 
story  in  height.     Figure  2  (p.  4)  presents  the  site  plan  and  ground 
floor  plan  of  the  proposed  structure.     Figure  3  (p.  5)  presents  a  repre- 
sentative upper  floor  plan  and  Figure  4  (p.  6)  presents  the  roof  plan. 

Proposed  Structure 

The  proposed  project,  as  designed  by  the  architectural  firm  of 
Skidmore,  Owings  &  Merrill,  would  be  composed  of  six  stories  above  grade, 
Parking  is  planned  on  the  sloping  floors  which  would  provide  access  to 
the  upper  levels  and  on  the  flat  portions  of  the  floors.     All  traffic 
would  be  one-way  with  parking  on  both  sides  of  the  traffic  lanes.  There 
would  be  an  "up"  loop  pattern  and  a  "down"  pattern  with  the  ability  to 
go  from  one  to  the  other  at  each  level.     This  design  allows  separation 
of  primary  ingress  and  egress  traffic.     Pairs  of  entrance  and  exit  gates 
would  be  located  on  the  Twelfth  Street  frontage.     Parking  would  be  on 
five  interior  levels  plus  the  roof.     The  physical  dimensions  of  the  pro- 
posed project  are  presented  in  Table  1. 

Table  1.     PHYSICAL  DIMENSIONS  OF 
PROPOSED  PROJECT 


Proposed 


Permitted 


Site  size     (sq.   ft.)  54,207 

Site  coverage     (sq.   ft.)  47,466 

Gross  area    (sq.  ft.)  274,392 

Area  used  in  FAR^  calculation  (sq.  ft.)  230,137 

FAR:  4.25 

Height  above  grade:  (ft.)  50 

Parking:  #  autos   (approximate)  850 


no  restriction 
no  restriction 
271,035 
5.0 
50 


FAR  (floor  area  ratio)  =  floor  space  provided  -r  site  area. 
Source:  Skidmore,  Owings  &  Merrill 


The  structure  would  be  constructed  of  reinforced  concrete,  with 
exterior  walls  designed  to  resist  the  forces  caused  by  wind  and  seismic 
events.     Solid  walls  are  located  where  required  by  design  to  resist 
seismic  events  or  by  proximity  to  the  property  line.     The  remaining 


-  3  - 


Figure  2:     SITE  PLAN  AND  GROUND 
FLOOR  PLAN 


Source:     Skidmore,  Owings  &  Merrill 


Figure  3:     REPRESENTATIVE  UPPER 
FLOOR  PLAN 


Source:     Skidmore,  Owings  &  Merrill 


-  5  - 


Figure  4:     ROOF  PLAN 


Source:     Skidmore,  Owings  &  Merrill 


-  6  - 


exterior  portion  would  be  open  for  ventilation  but  provided  with  a  headlamp  shield. 
Ventilation  would  be  provided  by  a  combination  of  natural  ventilation  and  four  fan 
systems,  one  in  each  corner  of  the  structure,  supplying  fresh  air  from  the  roof  to 
each  level.     Landscaping  would  consist  of  street  trees,  low  shrubs  and  climbing 
vines  on  Twelfth  Street  and  trees,  ground  cover  and  climbing  vines  planted  between 
the  property  line  and  structure  on  the  other  three  sides.     A  revocable  encroachment 
permit  would  be  necessary  to  provide  planting  space  for  the  climbing  vines  on  the 
Twelfth  Street  side  of  the  structure.     Such  permits  are  routinely  granted  upon  app- 
lication to  the  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Works. 

Figures  5  (p.  8),  6  (p.  9)  and  7  (p.  9)  present,  respectively,  a  section  of 
the  proposed  garage,  the  proposed  elevation  along  Twelfth  Street,  and  the  proposed 
elevation  along  Kissling  Street.     Figure  9  (p.  10)  shows  the  proposed  site  land- 
scaping plan. 

Pro.ject's  Relationship  to  Existing  Zoning 

The  proposed  project  site  is  located  in  an  M-1     (Light  Industrial)  District,^ 
in  which  parking  garages  are  a  permitted  use.     Immediately  to  the  north  is  a  C-M 
(Heavy  Commercial)  District,  in  which  parking  structures  are  also  permitted.  Land 
use  zoning  is  illustrated  in  Figure  9  (p.  11).     The  proposed  project  is  also  lo- 
cated in  a  50-X^  height  and  bulk  district,  which  indicates  a  height  limit  of  50  feet 
for  the  building.     Height  and  bulk  zoning  in  the  area  is  illustrated  in  Figure  10 
(p.  12).     Currently  proposed  zoning  changes  would  not  affect  these  areas. 

DEVELOPMENT  PROGRAM 

The  proposed  project  is  the  first  of  one  or  more  parking  facilities  which  the 
Bank  of  America  intends  to  provide  for  the  use  of  its  employees  at  the  bank's  data 
processing  complex,  which  includes  One  South  Van  Ness  and  the  two-phase  data  center 
expansion  project  under  construction  on  the  block  bounded  by  Market,  Mission,  Tenth 
and  Eleventh  Streets. 

The  proposed  structure  and  any  additional  structures  that  may  be  proposed  in 
the  future  would  be  developed  to  meet  the  parking  demand  generated  by  swing  and 
midnight  shift  data  center  employees,  who  are  more  dependent  on  auto  travel  than  day 
shift  employees  (due  to  the  limited  transit  service  offered  in  the  evening  and 
after  midnight).     It  is  currently  estimated  that  this  structure  would  satisfy  the 
parking  needs  of  the  swing  and  midnight  shifts  through  1984.     The  bank  would  con- 
sider the  development  of  additional  parking  facilities  at  an  appropriate  time  prior 
to  the  reaching  of  capacity  at  the  proposed  structure. 

This  incremental  approach  to  meeting  the  parking  demand  to  be  gen- 
erated by  the  data  center  is  considered  by  the  bank  to  be  preferable  to 
immediately  developing  all  of  the  parking  capacity  currently  estimated  to 
be  required  to  meet  the  parking  demand  generated  by  the  completed  data 
center  in  the  year  2000  for  two  reasons.     First,  this  approach  would 
allow  subsequent  reconsideration  of  employee  parking  needs  in  case  changes 


Principal  uses  permitted:     light  industry  and  manufacturing. 

Principal  uses  permitted:  heavy  commercial,  wholesale,  storage,  mortuary, 
automobile  sales  lot,  dwelling  other  than  a  one-  or  two-family  dwelling. 

Bulk  sjonbol  X  indicates  there  is  no  bulk  limit. 


-  7  - 


-  9  - 


Figure  8:     LANDSCAPE  PLAN 


It  a   — — 


PO"erH''  VECNA 

■  "TirJs  -  -  


[BO 


\0j 


I  ! 


coh,v  ivovoeo 


,1  "i'aEET 


^  SEa  ON  WAw- 

CltjS  PUA.-A  /AJNA* 

e/AA,--  -CAP  CUSP  sa  pio 


0   10  10 


Source:     Skidmore,  Owings  &  Merrill 


-  10  - 


Figure  9:     LAND  USE  ZONING  IN  THE  STUDY  AREA 


O  4O0 
SCALE  IN  FEET 


Zoning  Classifications 

C-3-G  Downtown  General  Commercial  District 

C-3-S  Downtown  Support  District 

C-M  Heavy  Commercial  District 

M-1  Light  Industrial  District 


Source:     City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  City  Planning 
Code;     Zoning  Map,  February  2,  1975. 


-  11  - 


Figure  10:     HEIGHT  AND  BULK  ZONING  IN  THE  STUDY  AREA 


Numbers  refer  to  maximum  permissible  height 
in  feet.     Letters  designate  bulk  limitations 
listed  below: 


Height  above 
which  regu- 
lations apply 

Maximum 
Length 

Maximum 
diagonal 
dimensions 

H 

100 

170 

200 

I 

150 

170 

200 

J 

40 

250 

200 

L 

80 

250 

200 

M 

100 

250 

300 

X 

no  applicable  regulations 

Source:     City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  City  Planning 
Code:     Zoning  Map,  February  2,  1975. 


-  12  - 


in  future  auto  use  and/or  public  transportation  availability  are  experi- 
enced during  the  period  of  data  center  development,  rather  than  basing 
the  parking  development  program  on  current  projections  of  the  demand  to 
be  generated  In  the  year  2000,  when  the  data  center  would  be  fully 
developed.     Second,  a  result  of  this  approach  could  be  that  any  future 
parking  facilities  might  be  placed  at  different  locations,  which  would 
spread  the  generated  traffic  load  to  more  than  the  few  streets  which 
would  serve  a  single  facility. 

Construction  of  the  proposed  structure  Is  expected  to  take  approxi- 
mately ten  months;  the  schedule  for  the  development  of  the  proposed  park- 
ing garage  is  presented  In  Table  2. 


Table     2.     PROJECT  DEVELOPMENT  SCHEDULE 


 Task  Date  

Demolition  Second  quarter,  1977 

Start  construction  Second  quarter,  1977 

Occupancy  First  quarter,  1978 


Source:  Skldmore,  Owings  &  Merrill  and 
Dinwiddle  Construction  Company 


The  estimated  cost  of  this  project  is  $3  million  exclusive  of  land. 

PROJECT  OBJECTIVES 

The  proposed  project  would  provide  parking  for  employees  of  the  Bank 
of  America  who  work  at  the  existing  data  center  on  the  block  bounded  by 
Mission,  Eleventh,  Market  Street  and  South  Van  Ness  Avenue  and  who  will 
work  at  the  data  center  now  under  construction  on  the  block  bounded  by 
Market,  Eleventh,  Mission  and  Tenth  Streets.     Although  the  bank  originally 
considered  including  parking  facilities  at  the  data  center.  City  policy^ 
indicates  a  presumption  against  parking  in  the  amount  which  would  have  been 
required,  causing  the  bank  to  look  elsewhere  for  a  suitable  site.     The  pro- 
posed garage  is  not  expected  to  accommodate  all  additional    automobile  commute 
trips  generated  by  the  data  center  employees  In  the  year  2000  and  the  bank 
is  committed  to  building  additional  parking  facilities  as  demand  requires. 


City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Department  of  City  Planning,  Transportation 
Element:     San  Francisco  Comprehensive  Plan:     April  27,  1972.     The  data  center 
is  located  in  a  C-3-G  (Downtown  General  Commercial)  District.     A  conditional 
use  permit  is  required  for  parking  exceeding  7%  of  the  total  gross  floor  area 
on  Market  Street  in  any  C-3  zone. 


-  13  - 


Need  for  a  Parking  Garage 


The  bank  estimates  that  during  first  phase  development  of  the  data 
center  (1977-1987),  approximately  6,660  employees  will  be  added  to  the 
current  staff  of  approximately  4,330  employees.     Shift  totals  would  then 
be:  day  (approximately  6:00  a.m.   to  2:00  p.m.)  7,450;  swing  (2:00  p.m.  to 
10:00  p.m.)  2,200;  and  midnight   (10:00  p.m.   to  6:00  a.m.)  1,340.     Many  of 
these  employees,  particularly  those  working  on  the  swing  and  midnight 
shifts,  are  expected  to  commute  by  automobile,  either  individually  or  in 
carpools.     According  to  a  survey  of  present  bank  employees  at  the  exist- 
ing data  center  done  by  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates,     43%  of  day  shift 
employees  drive  to  work.     The  proportion  of  swing  and  night  shift  employees 
driving  to  work  is  higher;   79%  of  swing  shift  and  80%  of 

midnight  shift  employees  drive  to  work.     The  project  transportation  con- 
sultant has  estimated  that  the  proportion  of  the  day  shift  workers  driving 
to  work  would  decline  to  25%  by  the  year  2000  and  that  the  proportion  of 
swing  and  midnight  shift  workers  driving  to  work  would  still  be  75%  for 
both  shifts  by  the  end  of  the  century. 

The  particular  problems  faced  by  swing  and  midnight  shift  workers 
are  among  the  most  important  in  the  bank's  decision  to  provide  parking 
facilities.     Public  transportation  for  such  employees  often  is  unavail- 
able.    When  service  is  available,  it  is  frequently  considered  unattractive 
due  to  actual  crime  or  the  perception  that  the  incidence  of  crime  is  high 
both  aboard  the  transit  vehicles  and  at  waiting  areas.     Crime  is  not 
restricted  to  those  bank  employees  who  use  public  transit.  Employees 
returning  to  their  automobiles  have  also  reportedly  experienced  theft, 
bodily  harm  and  property  damage,  and  female  employees  have  reportedly 
been  subjected  to  physical  threats,  indecent  exposures  and  propositioning. 
The  bank  feels  that  by  providing  secure  parking,  it  would  reduce  the  actual 
and/or  perceived  amount  of  crime  experienced  by  employees  and  thereby  raise 
morale. 

Operation  of  the  Garage 

The  proposed  garage  would  be  available  for  use  by  bank  employees  and 
would  not  be  open  to  the  public.     Access  to  the  garage  would  be  through  an 
electronic  gate  which  would  be  activated  by  a  coded  card.     Security  guards 
would  be  on  duty  in  the  garage  at  all  times.     The  garage  would  be  open  con- 
tinuously.    As  it  would  be  located  approximately  one-half  mile  from  the 
entrance  to  the  data  center,  a  shuttle  bus  service,  would  be  implemented  to 
carry  employees  between  the  parking  garage  and  the  data  center.     Since  it 
would  be  about  a  10-minute  walk,  some  employees  might  choose  to  walk 
between  the  parking  garage  and  the  data  center  during  daylight  hours  when 
the  weather  is  good.     Shuttle  buses  from  the  garage  to  One  South  Van  Ness 
and  the  data  center  expansion  on  Market  Street  would  travel  via  Twelfth 
Street,  Kissling  Street  and  Eleventh  Street  during  the  day  and  via  Twelfth 
Street,  Howard  Street  and  Eleventh  Street  at  night.     The  project  would  in- 
clude the  conversion  of  Kissling  Street  from  a  two-way  street  to  a  one-way 
street  with  traffic  moving  toward  Eleventh  Street.     The  bank  proposes  to 
discourage  employee  use  of  Kissling  Street   (see  discussion  p.  43). 

^Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  surveyed  2,190  employees  of  the  existing  data 
center  in  1974  concerning  their  probable  modal  choice  under  varying  con- 
ditions.    Results  were  presented  in  the  data  center  EIR  (EE  74.128,  August, 
1975)  and  are  discussed  above  and  in  Appendix  A. 


-  14  - 


Parking  spaces  at  the  garage  would  be  reserved  on  a  24-hour  basis, 
and  priority  would  be  given  to  those  working  on  the  swing  and  midnight 
shifts.     Since  these  two  shifts  overlap,  the  maximum  number  of  cars  in 
the  garage  at  any  one  time  would  be  during  the  shift  change  period 
between  11:00  and  12:00  p.m.     Spaces  not  allocated  to  individuals  on 
the  swing  or  midnight  shifts  would  be  available  to  those  on  the  day 
shift,  with  priority  given  first  to  carpools  and  handicapped  employees. 
As  data  center  swing  and  midnight  shift  employment  grows,  the  number  of 
these  places  available  to  day  shift  employees  would  decline. 


-  15  - 


III.     ENVIRONMENTAL  SETTING 


ECOLOGY  OF  THE  SITE  AND  THE  SURROUNDING  AREA 
Topography 

Elevations  on  the  proposed  site  range  from  20  feet  above  sea  level  at  the 
northern  corner,  on  Kissling  Street,  to  14  feet  at  the  southern  corner,  on 
Twelfth  Street. 

The  surrounding  land  gently  slopes  away  from  Market  Street  toward  the  bay. 
Within  a  two-block  radius  of  the  parking  structure  site,  the  elevation  is  high- 
est at  the  intersection  of  Mission  and  Tenth  Streets  and  lowest  at  the  intersec- 
tion of  Folsom  Street  and  the  Central  Skyway.       Surface  runoff  drains  into  the 
combined  storm  drainage  and  sanitary  sewer  system. 

Subsurface  Conditions 

The  project  soil  engineers  have  completed  a  report  on  subsurface  conditions, 
based  on  two  borings  made  at  the  site,  which  notes: 

The  site  is  underlain  by  predominantly  granular  soils  to  the  depths 
explored.     The  upper  20  to  22  feet  of  soil  is  a  loose  to  medium  dense 
brown  fine  dune  sand  extending  down  to  elevation  -2  or  slightly  be- 
low.    The  upper  five  feet  of  the  dune  sand  layer  is  contaminated 
with  occasional  rock  and  brick,  probably  remnants  from  former 
buildings  constructed  prior  to  1925. 

Underlying  the  upper  dune  and  sand  deposit  is  a  stratum  of  dense 
to  very  dense,  medium  to  fine,  gray  sand  varying  in  thickness  from 
28  to  30  feet  and  extending  to  between  elevation  -32  and  -35  feet. 
The  borings  extended  into  and  were  terminated  in  a  very  dense 
brown  fine  sand.     Groundwater  was  encountered  at  elevation  +5  feet 
in  Boring  1  and  at  elevation  +7  feet  in  Boring  2. 

The  San  Francisco  Seismic  Safety  Investigation*^  notes  that  the  dune  sands  which 
underlie  the  site  shown  on  Figure  11  (p.  17)  generally  have  low  potential  for  earth- 
quake failure,  and  maps  the  area  as  not  susceptible  to  either  liquefaction  or  sub- 
sidence in  case  of  an  earthquake.     Liquefaction  involves  the  sudden  suspension  of 
seemingly  dry,  granular  material  in  water  because  of  extreme  pressures,  which  may 
result  in  land  slides  or  settlement.     Subsidence  occurs  because  soils  compress 
under  the  weight  of  structures.     The  Investigation  shows  no  known  faults  at  the 
project  site,  with  the  San  Andreas  Fault  about  seven  miles  to  the  west. 


United  States  Department  of  Interior,  Geological  Survey.  Map  of  San  Francisco 
North  Quadrangle,  California,   7.5  Minute  Series:  1950. 

'written  communication  between  M.  Francies ,  Div.  of  Sanitary  Engineering,  S.  F. 
Department  of  Public  Works  and  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates,  December  29,  1975. 

Dames  and  Moore  "Report;  Foundation  Investigation;  Proposed  Parking  Garage; 
San  Francisco,  California;  For  the  Bank  of  America.:     March  4,  1976. 

^Blume,  John  A.,  &  Associates,  Engineers,  San  Francisco  Seismic  Safety  Investi- 
gation ,  San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  June,  1974. 


-  16  - 


Figure  11:     SEISMIC  SAFETY  MAP 


Earthquake  Stability  Qualifications 

Qd:     Dune  Sand:    Moderate  to  high  stability 
Qaf :    Artificial  Fill:     Low  to  moderate  stability 

Qu:     Quarternary  deposits,  undifferentiated: 

Low  to  moderate  stability 


Source:     Blume,  John  A.,  &  Associates,  Engineers,  San 
Francisco  Seismic  Safety  Investigation,  San 
Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  June,  1974, 


-  17  - 


Climatic  Characteristics 


The  San  Francisco  regional  climate  is  classified  as  a  summer  dry  Mediterranean 
type  with  warm  summers,  mild  winters  and  frequent  fog.     The  annual  mean  temperature 
is  56.7°F.;  the  highest  recorded  temperature  (1849-1976)  was  101  F.  and  the  lowest 
was  27°F.     The  average  annual  precipitation  is  22  inches,  with  a  high  of  49  inches 
and  a  low  of  9  inches.     The  average  wind  speed  is  8.7  miles  per  hour,  with  the 
average  direction  from  the  west /northwest.     Proximity  to  water  and  onshore  air  cir- 
culation contribute  to  an  average  relative  humidity  of  67%,  ^Sunshine  is  present 
65%  of  all  hours  between  sunrise  and  sunset  during  the  year. 

Biota 

There  is  no  natural  open  space  on  the  site  and  no  landscaping  or  other  notice- 
able plant  or  animal  life.    While  a  small  parking  lot  does  exist  at  the  site,  it 
has  a  paved  rather  than  gravel  surface.     Common  urban  microorganisms  are  expected 
to  inhabit  soils  on  the  site. 

Visual  Setting 

Photographs  of  the  existing  building  and  vicinity  are  shown  in  Figures  12-20 
(pp.   19-23),  and  may  be  compared  to  the  elevations  of  the  proposed  building  shown 
in  Figures  6  and  7  (p.  9)  and  the  proposed  structure  profiles  presented  in  Figures 
24  and  25  (p.  39). 

LAND  USE  CHARACTERISTICS  OF  THE  SITE  AND  SURROUNDING  AREA 
Land  Use  Activities 

The  three-story  building  on  the  site  of  the  proposed  parking  garage  was  used 
until  1973  as  a  bookbindery  by  the  Cardoza  Bookbinding  Company.     After  relocation 
of  the  bindery  it  was  used  until  December,  1976  as  a  warehouse  for  storage  of  unused 
equipment  by  Cardoza' s  parent  company,  Stecher-Traung-Schmidt  Corporation  (STS). 
The  one-story  building  was  used  as  a  warehouse  by  the  Carnation 

Company  until  August,  1976,  when  Carnation  relocated  and  expanded  their  facilities. 
In  order  to  construct  the  proposed  five-story  garage,  the  existing  buildings  would 
have  to  be  demolished. 

Existing  land  use  in  the  areg  is  mapped  in  Figure  21   (p.  24).     An  informal 
survey  of  business  establishments    within  a  two-block  radius  of  the  proposed 
structure  was  taken  in  late  1975.     Those  interviewed  were  asked  questions  about: 

•  types  of  commercial  activity  in  the  area; 
advantages  and  disadvantages  of  the  location; 

•  trends  in  business  activity  in  the  area; 

anticipated  impact  of  the  parking  garage  on  surrounding  businesses;  and 

•  employment  in  the  area. 

The  area  may  be  characterized  as  a  location  for  light  industry,  warehouses 
and  automobile-support  services  such  as  tire  dealers,  repair  shops  and  wholesalers 


UoS.  Department  of  Commerce,  Weather  Bureau,  Local  Climatological  Data,  San 
Francisco,  1976. 

'The  106  businesses  in  the  area  which  were  interviewed  are  listed  in  Chapter  XI 
(pp.  62-64)  of  this  report. 


-  18  - 


o 
tu 

H 
CD 
O 

H 
W 

H 

pel 
H 
P4 


tri 

O 
!Z 

O 

3  M 

o 

I  O 

o 

2:  H 

H  W 

H  W 

H  P£! 

W  H 

C/3  M 


O 


0) 

u 

•H 


-  19 


Figure  13:     VISUAL  SETTING  -  KISSLING  STREET  FROM 
TWELFTH  STREET 


-  20  - 


Figure  15:     VISUAL  SETTING  -  TWELFTH  STREET  NORTH 
OF  KISSLING  STREET  LOOKING  SOUTH 


Figure  17:     VISUAL  SETTING  -  KISSLING 
STREET  FROM  ELEVENTH  STREET 


igure  21:     LAND  USE  IN  THE  PROJECT  AREA 


Project  ivx-  Gas  Station 

Site 

nil  Other 

^  Vacant  La:ad 

-  24  - 


of  automotive  equipment.     Over  time,  the  evolution  of  land  use  in  the  area  has 
been  similar  to  the  shift  in  the  composition  of  business  activity  elsewhere  in 
San  Francisco:     the  heavier  types  of  industry  have  moved  from  the  area  and  have 
been  replaced  by  lighter  industry  and  service/business  support  establishments. 
Although  no  formal  statistics  are  available,  according  to  those  interviewed,  vacancy 
has  remained  about  the  same  over  the  past  several  decades. 

The  three  major  types  of  activities  in  the  area  now  are  garment  manufacturing, 
printing  and  automotive  services.    What  retailing  does  exist  is  directed  toward  a 
specific  clientele.     For  example.  Western  Ceramics  Supply  Company  sells  ceramic 
supplies  to  art  teachers  and  artists  in  the  Bay  Area.     There  are  a  few  small  restau- 
rants and  bars  which  serve  the  local  work  force  and  the  Gay  community. 

The  trends  in  industrial  location  that  have  occurred  in  San  Francisco  appear 
to  be  repeating  themselves  in  this  area.     The  printing  industry,  faced  with 
high  urban,  unionized  labor  costs  and  a  changing  technology  which  demands  hori- 
zontally rather  than  vertically  organized  plants  and,  consequently  larger  parcels 
of  land  than  can  be  easily  or  cheaply  assembled  in  the  city,  is  moving  to  less 
urban  areas  and  to  other  parts  of  the  country.      Banco,  a  bank  check  printing 
concern,  recently  moved  out  of  the  area.     Cardco,  a  greeting  card  printer,  and 
Merganthaler  Linotype  are  planning  to  move  in  the  near  future,     Cardoza,  the 
bookbinding  company  that  formerly  occupied  the  project  site,  was  closed  because 
of  the  availability  of  less  expensive  bookbinding  in  the  midwest. 

The  garment  manufacturers,  recent  arrivals  in  the  area,  indicated  in  the 
GG+A  survey  that  they  will  be  staying  for  awhile.     The  search  for  inexpensive 
loft  or  open  span  space  near  the  center  of  the  city,  and  preferably  around  Market 
Street,  has  led  them  to  the  South-of-Market  area  and  forces  including  (1)  the 
new  beginnings  of  first-class  office  and  commercial  establishments  locating  south 
of  Market  Street,  competing  for  space  and  driving  up  prices  and  (2)  the  expectation 
that  the  Yerba  Buena  redevelopment  project  would  attract  even  more  competitors 
for  space  has  made  the  eastern  portion  of  the  South-of-Market  area  less  available 
to  them.    The  garment  manufacturers  appear  to  be  finding  the  study  area  has  com- 
parative advantages  not  only  related  to  rental  prices,  but  also  is  central  enough 
to  both  la^or  supply  and  potential  clients  that  some  agglomeration  appears  to  be 
occurring.      This  agglomeration  has  advantages  in  that  both  clients  and  suppliers 
such  as  designers  can  easily  visit  many  firms. 

Analysis  based  on  the  GG+A  survey  also  indicated  that  the  automotive  service  in' 
dustry  has  traditionally  been,  and  is  likely  to  continue  to  be,  strong  in  this 
location.     It  will  be  afforded  additional  support,  in  part,  by  two  factors:  first, 
given  the  trend  in  this  area  toward  labor-intensive  activities,  more  workers  may 
be  introduced  to  the  area  who  may  find  the  establishments  convenient  ones  at  which 
to  service  their  cars,  and,  second,  by  the  policy  in  the  San  Francisco  Downtown 
Plan  which  recommends  location  of  parking  facilities  on  the  periphery  of  downtown, 
which  will  bring  additional  cars  into  the  area  and  thereby  increase  the  propensity 
to  have  them  serviced  there.     Several  auto-servicing  firms  have  recently  expanded 
or  renovated  their  facilities  and  most  firms  reported  to  GG+A  that  their  business 
has  been  increasing. 

While  the  advantages  and  disadvantages  of  the  location  vary  for  different 
types  of  businesses,  the  GG+A  survey  found  that  certain  attributes  of  the  location 

Little,  Arthur  D,,  Inc.,  Studies  on  the  San  Francisco  Economic  Environment, 
Technical  Paper  Number  5  for  the  San  Francisco  Community  Renewal  Program,  1965. 

Verbal  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Dick  Swanson,  Economic 
Development  Specialist,  San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  March  17,  1977. 


-  25  - 


are  experienced  by  all  types  of  businesses.     Businesses  In  the  area  cite  the 
following  as  advantages  of  the  location: 

•  good  accessibility  to  freeways  and  public  transportation; 
central  location  and  proximity  to  suppliers  and  customers;  and 

•  rents,  which  are  considered  reasonable  by  tenants,  and  which  have  not 
been  rising  rapidly. 

Disadvantages  commonly  cited  by  businesses  in  the  area  include: 

•  lack  of  parking  facilities  for  customers  and/or  employees; 
crime  or  the  fear  of  crime; 

the  unsavory  reputation  they  feel  the  area  has  which,  in  turn,  they 
believe  inhibits  customers  from  coming  into  the  area. 

The  presence  in  the  neighborhood  of  bars  and  restaurants  which  attract 
members  of  the  gay  community  was  mentioned  by  a  number  of  survey  respondents, 
who  felt  that  some  of  their  own  customers  might  find  the  presence  of  gay  people 
in  the  neighborhood  a  disincentive  to  continued  patronage.     On  the  other  hand, 
the  local  concentration  of  businesses  (especially  food  service  firms)  which 
encourage  the  patronage  of  gays  make  the  area  an  important  social  resource 
to  that  group,  and  may  result  in  economic  benefits  to  other  types  of  businesses 
in  the  area. 

The  most  commonly  cited  disadvantage  was  lack  of  parking  facilities.  Often 
this  was  the  only  characteristic  of  the  neighborhood  mentioned  by  those  inter- 
viewed.    Some  qualified  their  statements  by  saying  that,  while  parking  is  tight 
in  the  study  area,  it  is  tight  in  all  parts  of  San  Francisco,    Many  firms  have 
made  private  arrangements  for  employee  and  customer  parking.     Goodyear  Tire  Company 
recently  constructed  a  new  building  which  includes  several  stories  of  parking  for 
its  customers  and  employees. 

Many  businessmen  in  the  area  consider  crime  to  be  a  major  disadvantage  of 
the  location.    Many  of  those  interviewed  noted  that  they  would  prefer  not  to  walk 
the  streets  at  night.     Burglary,  robbery  and  arson  were  all  perceived  by  survey 
respondents  to  be  prevalent  crimes  in  the  area. 

Employment  in  the  Site  Area 

As  of  late  1975,  emplojonent  within  a  two-block  radius  of  the  project  site 
was  approximately  2,150.     The  major  employers  in  the  area  are  the  California  In- 
spection Rating  Bureau  (approximately  225  employees).  Foremost  Dairy  Products 
(approximately  200  employees),  the  Recorder  Printing  and  Publishing  Company 
(approximately  150  employees),  and  the  Otagiri  Company  (importer,  approximately 
100  employees).     All  except  the  rating  bureau,  which  hopes  to  relocate  in  the 
financial  district,  are  expected  to  remain  in  the  area  for  some  time.     Before  con- 
solidating its  bindery  operation  at  another  S.F.  location  in  1973,  the  Cardoza 
Bookbinding  Company  was  one  of  the  largest  employers  in  the  area,  employing  up 
to  150  people.     The  Bank  of  America  currently  maintains  a  temporary  office  for 
data  processing  in  the  area,  staffed  by  approximately  210  people.     This  office  will 
move  into  the  data  center  when  it  is  completed. 


-  26  - 


The  work  population  of  the  blocks  surrounding  the  proposed  project  site,  with 
the  exception  of  bar  employees,  is  primarily  a  daytime  labor  force.    Most  of  the 
labor  force  may  be  characterized  as  service  workers,  laborers  and  clerical  workers. 
While  a  smattering  of  office  employment  is  found  throughout  the  area,  the  largest 
concentration  of  office  employment  is  found  at  the  office  building  at  1449  Mission 
Street.    Here  is  located  the  California  Inspection  Bureau  (225  employees),  a  Bank 
of  America  office  (210  employees),  the  State  of  California  Employment  Development 
Department  (50  employees)  and  Allied  Maintenance  Service  Corporation  (12  employees). 

All  the  above  figures  do  not  include  estimates  of  the  employment  in  businesses 
which  refused  to  be  interviewed,     Emplojnment  in  these  businesses  is  estimated  to 
be  less  than  200, 

Si 

Residential  Population 

There  are  currently  no  individuals  living  at  the  proposed  site  of  the  parking 
structure.     On  the  block  where  the  proposed  structure  would  be  located  there  were 
39  year-round  housing  units,  with  a  population  of  106,  in  1970.    More  than  one- 
third  of  these  individuals  (34%)  were  less  than  18  years  of  age,  while  11%  were 
62  or  older.     In  1970,  there  were  1,051  persons  living  within  a  two-block  radius 
of  the  proposed  parking  site.     The  mean  rent  in  this  area  was  $83.75  per  month, 
with  the  median  being  $94, 

Cultural,  Aesthetic  and  Recreational  Resources 

There  are  no  known  archeological  sites  on  the  site  of  the  parking  structure. 
While  the  site  of  the  Mission  Dolores  is  in  the  vicinity,  it  is  not  thought  that 
missign-related  development  extended  as  far  as  the  proposed  parking  structure 
site.      The  other  churches  in  the  area  are  the  East/West  Church  of  Christ,  which 
occupies  a  storefront  location  at  1559  Mission  Street,  St,  Joseph's  Catholic 
Church,  Howard  Street  at  Twelfth  Street,  and  Temple  El  Calvario,  Assemblies  of  God, 
1419  Howard  Street. 

Fort  Help,  a  national  center  for  solving  specific  social  and  health  problems, 
is  located  at  169  Eleventh  Street.     This  counseling  center  offers  general  coun- 
seling, a  drop-in  and  crisis  service,  and  a  methadone  clinic.     Fort  Help  currently 
has  40  people  (salaried  and  volunteers)  on  its  staff. 

The  Polish  Community  Center  is  also  found  in  the  area  at  165  Eleventh  Street, 
This  center  acts  as  a  gathering  place  for  all  individuals  of  Polish  descent  in 
the  Bay  Area,     It  aids  immigrants  by  finding  housing  and  offering  instruction^in 
English,     The  center  also  sponsors  films  and  dances  for  the  Polish  community. 


Statistics  in  this  section  taken  from  U,S,  Bureau  of  the  Census,   1970  Census  of 
Housing,  Block  Statistics, 

Verbal  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Harlan  Soeten,  Curator, 
San  Francisco  Maritime  Museum,  December  10,  1975. 

Verbal  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Bill  Glover,  Staff  member. 
Fort  Help,  December  29,  1975. 

Verbal  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  D.  W.  Suchecki,  Executive 
Director,  Polish  Community  Center,  December  29,  1975. 


-  27  - 


There  are  no  designated  landmarks  In  the  area.      According  to  Here  Today,  an 
unofficial  study  of  San  Francisco's  architectural  heritage  done  by  the  Junior 
League  of  San  Francisco,  there  are  no  structures  of  architectural  interest  in 
the  study  area. 


a 

Verbal  coitimunicatxon  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Ed  Michael,  Landmarks 
Advisory  Board,  San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  January  24,  1977, 


-  28  - 


IV.     ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACTS 


DEMOLITION  AND  CONSTRUCTION  PERIOD 
Physical 

The  primary  impact  of  demolition  and  construction  would  be  noise.     This  impact 
would  be  expected  to  be  greater  during  demolition  of  the  old  buildings  than  during 
construction  of  the  new  parking  structure.     Allowable  construction  noise  is  limited 
by  the  San  Francisco  Noise  Abatement  and  Control  Ordinances  to  a  maximum  of  85  dBA 
at  100  feet.      A  noise  level  of  85  dBA  is  equivalent  to  the  noise  generated  by  a 
diesel  truck  at  50  feet.     The  existing  buildings  are  constructed  of  concrete  and 
contain  no  knovm  hazardous  materials.     It  appears  unlikely  that  archaeological 
evidence  would  be  discovered  during  demolition  or  construction. 

Construction  vehicles  are  expected  to  include  trucks,  a  truck  crane,  cater- 
pillars, caterpillar  loaders,  and  concrete  trucks.     Their  arrivals  and  departures 
would  probably  occur  during  non-peak  hours  and  their  activity  be  limited  to  the 
site  so  that  no  interruption  of  street  traffic  or  parking  would  occur. 

Other  construction  activities  which  might  produce  environmental  impacts  are 
not  expected  to  be  required.     Limited  excavation  work  would  be  done,  as  the  site 
would  be  graded  from  zero  elevation  to  8  feet  over  a  distance  of  216  feet.  The 
only  trenching  required  would  be  for  the  building  footings  and  there  should  be  no 
dewatering  required. 

Energy  and  Utility  Usage 

Electricity  requirements  during  demolition  and  construction  are  estimated 
at  154,500  kilowatt  hours  (kwh)  and  water  requirements  at  about  460,000  cubic 
feet  based  on  cost  experience  in  jobs  of  a  similar  nature  at  the  current  time. 
Diesel  fuel  consumption  is  estimated  at  15,000  gallons  and  gasoline  consumption 
at  9,500  gallons,  including  on-site  equipment  and  estimated  material  deliveries 
based  on  the  estimate  that  six  diesel  trucks  and  four  gasoline  vehicles  would  be 
involved^throughout  the  construction  period  and  consume  13  gallons  per  day  per 
vehicle. 

Correspondence  with  representatives  of  public  support  systems  (listed  on  page 
60)  indicates  that  capacity  exists  in  the  various  systems  to  satisfy  the  project's 
requirements  during  the  construction  period. 

Economic  Impact 

The  direct  effects  of  the  project  on  local  income  and  employment  consist  of 
the  workers  direcly  employed  in  constructing  the  project  and  the  associated 
direct  payroll  costs. 

The  decibel  (dB)  is  the  standard  unit  of  sound  measure,  and  involves  pressure 
from  sound  waves  upon  the  ear  drum.     Thus,  a  decibel  reading  will  be  lower  the 
further  one  moves  away  from  the  noise  source,  because  pressure  diminishes  with 
distance. 

The  dBA  is  the  decibel  reading  obtained  from  a  noise  measurement  instrument  with 
a  frequency  response  similar  to  that  of  the  human  ear  under  conditions  of  usual 
urban  noise  levels. 

^Verbal  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Robert  Schaeffer,  Engineer, 
Dinwiddle  Construction  Company,  January  24,  1977,  and  written  communication  between 
Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Teri  Fowler,  Engineer,  Dinwiddle  Construction  Company, 
March  15,  1977. 

-  29  - 


The  indirect  effects  on  employment  and  Income  are  more  difficult  to  estimate. 
Generally  stated,  those  individuals  who  would  be  directly  employed  in  constructing 
the  project  would  spend  their  money  and,  in  turn,  generate  additional  income  and 
employment.     This  is  known  as  the  multiplier  effect  of  an  infusion  of  money  into 
the  local  economy.     For  San  Francisco,  the  multiplier  is  taken  to  be  1,6  for  both 
income  and  employment.       This  means  that  each  additional  dollar  invested  in  con- 
struction in  San  Francisco  would  eventually  generate  an  additional  60c  for  the  San 
Francisco  economy.     Every  job  created  by  the  parking  structure  would,  in  turn, 
create  the  demand  for  0.6  additional,  non-parking-structure  jobs.     Therefore,  every 
two  employees  created  by  the  parking  structure  would  generate  more  than  enough 
demand  for  one  non-parking- structure  job. 

Construction  of  the  parking  structure  is  estimated  to  require  21,500  person- 
days.     With  an  estimated  construction  period  of  ten  months  from  the  first  day  of 
demolition  to  the  day  of  completion,  an  average  of  70  to  75  direct  jobs  would  be 
created  for  the  entire  construction  period. 

Using  the  multiplier,  demand  for  indirect  jobs  created  by  the  construction 
activity  may  be  estimated  at  40  to  45  jobs.     Therefore,  the  total  employment  impact 
during  construction  would  be  approximately  110  to  120  jobs, 

OPERATIONAL  IMPACTS 

Land-related  Subsurface  and  Seismicity 

The  subsurface,  as  described  on  page  16,  consists  primarily  gf  dense  brown 
sand.  Compaction  and  post  construction  settling  are  not  expected  to  cause  any 
damage  to  the  structure  or  create  any  hazards.  Overall  site  stability  would  be 
unchanged  from  its  present  condition. 

Biota 

There  is  presently  no  natural  open  space  on  the  project  site.     The  primary 
impact  of  the  project  on  biota  would  be  to  add  flora  through  landscaping.  Land- 
scaping as  shown  in  Figure  8  (p.   10)  would  consist  of  street  trees,  low  shrubs  and 
climbing  vines  on  Twelfth  Street  and  trees,  ground  cover,  and  climbing  vines  planted 
between  the  property  line  and  structure  on  the  other  three  sides.     This  flora 
may  enhance  the  environment  of  some  fauna  observed  at  the  site,  such  as  typical 
urban  birds  and  insects. 

Transportation  Impacts 

A  study  of  the  transportation  impacts  of  the  proposed  parking  garage  has 
been  prepared  by  the  project  traffic  engineers  Linscott,  Law  and  Greenspan,  This 
report  is  presented  in  Appendix  A, 

Impact  on  street  and  public  transit  systems.    The  parking  structure  would  have 
the  greatest  impact  on  the  street  system  during  the  P.M.  peak  commuter  hour.  The 
project  traffic  engineer  has  estimated  that  capacity  conditions  would  not  be  ex- 
perienced on  the  major  departure  routes  which  would  serve  the  parking  structure 

Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates. 

^Dames  and  Moore,  "Report;  Foundation  Investigation;  Proposed  Parking  Garage;  San 
Francisco,  California;  Bank  of  America."     Letter  to  Robert  Towle,  project  architect 
at  Skidraore,  Owings  and  Merrill:    March  4,  1976. 


-  30  - 


traffic;  however,  near  capacity  operations  would  be  experienced  at  three  locations: 
Tenth  Street  at  Bryant  Street,  Twelfth  Street  at  Folsom  Street,  and  Thirteenth 
Street  at  Mission  Street.    Assuming  the  commute  patterns  of  future  data  center 
employees  would  be  nearly  the  same  as  employees  of  the  existing  data  center,  the 
project  would  generate  approximately  a  0.9%  increase  in  freeway  traffic  southbound 
on  U.S.  101  during  the  P.M.  peak  commuter  hour  and  about  a  1%  increase  in  east- 
bound  traffic  on  Interstate  80  west  of  the  Interstate  480  junction  during  the  P.M. 
peak  hour. 

The  daily  traffic  volume  on  neighborhood  streets  in  the  vicinity  of  the  parking 
structure  would  increase  by  over  50%  on  Twelfth  Street  between  Howard  and  Folsom 
Streets  where  the  structure  would  be  located  and  by  about  5%  on  Eleventh  Street 
between  Howard  and  Folsom  Streets.     The  existinj^  volume-capacity  relationships  are 
shown  in  Appendix  A  (pp.  96,  97).     Daily  traffic  on  Kissling  Street  adjacent  to 
the  structure  would  increase  by  about  30%  due  to  shuttle  bus  traffic  which  would 
occur  only  during  daytime  hours  (7:00  A.M.  to  6:00  P.M.),  although,  if  the  bank's 
discouragement  of  employees'  use  of  Kissling  Street  were  ineffective,  traffic  could 
increase  by  as  much  as  85%  on  Kissling  Street. 

The  parking  structure  entrance  and  exit  would  be  on  Twelfth  Street,  where 
there  are  no  transit  lines  (see  map  in  Appendix  A,  p.  77).     None  of  the  three  streets 
which  would  approach  capacity  operations  during  the  P.M.  peak  commuter  hour 
accommodates  transit  lines.     Eleventh  Street,  which  would  experience  about  a  5% 
daily  traffic  increase  between  Howard  and  Folsom  Streets  is  a  transit  preferential 
street , 

The  opening  of  the  parking  facility  would  make  300  parking  spaces  in  Fox 
Plaza,  1390  Market  Street,  currently  leased  by  the  bank,  availabile  to  other  users. 
These  spaces  are  leased  for  different  periods  between  3:00  P.M.  and  10:00  A.M., 
therefore  a  majority  are  currently  available  for  all-day  parking.     Those  spaces 
which  are  not  currently  available  for  all-day  parking  could  become  available  as  a 
result  of  this  project,  resulting  in  the  potential  generation  of  somewhat  less  than 
300  additional  peak  hour  trips.     This  additional  traffic  would  impact  transit 
operation  since  vehicles  must  use  Market  Street  to  gain  access  to  the  Fox  Plaza 
facility.     Space  in  a  building  at  20  South  Van  Ness  Avenue  used  by  the  bank  to 
provide  parking    for  121  autos  would  also  be  vacated  and  the  building  would  be  sold. 
This  space  could  be  converted  to  other  uses,  but  assuming  it  is  used  for  parking, 
it  could  generate  a  maximum  of  an  additional  242  peak  hour  trips  which  could  impact 
transit  operation  in  the  area. 

Impacts  of  shuttle  bus  routing.     The  proposed  shuttle  bus  routing  during 
the  day  (7:00  A.M.  to  6:00  P.M.)  is  from  the  project  site  on  Twelfth  Street  north 
of  Folsom  via  Twelfth  Street,  right  on  Kissling  Street,  left  on  Eleventh  Street 
to  the  data  center  at  Market  Street  and  returning  via  Eleventh  Street,  right  on 
Folsom  Street  and  right  on  Twelfth  Street  to  the  passenger  loading  area  on 
Twelfth  Street  at  the  project  site.     During  the  night  this  routing  would  be  revised 
to  continue  past  Kissling  on  Twelfth  Street,  right  on  Howard  Street,  left  on 
Eleventh  Street  then  continuing  the  circuit  as  above.     This  daytime  routing  would 
make  desirable  the  conversion  of  Kissling  Street  to  one-way  operation  eastbound  be- 
tween Twelfth  and  Eleventh  Streets.     Since  Kissling  Street  is  only  22.5  feet  wide, 
turning  conflicts  between  shuttle  buses  and  vehicles  turning  onto  and  travelling- 
westbound  on  Kissling  Street  could  be  expected  according  to  the  project  traffic 
engineer.     Conversion  of  Kissling  Street  to  one-way  operation  eastbound  would  elim- 
inate the  potential  for  such  conflict.     The  procedure  for  making  this  conversion  is 
discussed  in  Appendix  A  (p.  117). 


-  31  - 


The  nighttime  routing  would  require  modification  of  the  existing  right-turn- 
only  traffic  pattern  eastbound  on  Howard  Street  at  Eleventh  Street.     A  request 
would  have  to  be  made  to  the  Division  of  Traffic  Engineering  in  order  to  permit  a 
left  turn  from  Howard  to  Eleventh  at  night  (6:00  P.M.  to  7:00  A.M.). 

The  shuttle  bus  service  would  have  passenger  access  points  on  Eleventh 
Street  south  of  Market  Street  and  on  Twelfth  Street  south  of  Kissling  Street.  This 
would  require  the  establishment  of  passenger  loading  zones,  the  procedure 
for  which  is  described  in  Appendix  A  (p.  118).     The  access  point  on  Eleventh 
Street  might  result  in  some  blockage  of  traffic  if  the  present  streetcar  turn-out 
tracks  on  Eleventh  Street  are  in  use.     This  is  likely  to  be  the  case  until  1980-81 
and  is  uncertain  beyond  that  time.     The  access  point  on  Twelfth  Street  is  not  ex- 
pected to  result  in  blockage  of  traffic. 

Impacts  on  pedestrian  accessibility.    The  project  would  be  expected  to  gener- 
ate approximately  1,520  additional  pedestrian  trips  per  day.     During  the  P.M.  peak 
commuter  hour  the  project  would  generate  360  pedestrian  trips,  while  the  cross- 
walk on  Eleventh  Street  at  Mission  Street  was  observed  to  have  a  P.M.  peak  hour 
volume  of  190  in  the  spring  of  1975;  however,  this  crosswalk  can  accommodate  3,000 
pedestrians  per  hour  at  a  level  of  service  which  would  maintain  pedestrian  comfort. 

Impacts  of  Traffic  Noise 

An  assessment  of  the  potential  traffic  noise  impacts  of  project-related 
traffic  has  been  made  by  Charles  M,  Salter,  P.E.,  Acoustical  Consultant.  This 
assessment  is  presented  in  Appendix  C. 

The  following  potential  sources  of  traffic  noise  were  considered:  automobiles 
entering  and  leaving  the  proposed  structure;  automobiles  driven  within  the  build- 
ing; and  shuttle  buses  accepting  and  discharging  passengers  at  the  proposed 
structure  and  traveling  between  the  proposed  structure  and  the  data  center.  Po- 
tential noise  impacts  were  estimated  for  two  locations  where  sensitive  receptors 
(residences)  are  located  in  the  project  area  during  the  hours  project  traffic 
would  most  heavily  impact  overall  traffic  volume.     These  two  locations  and  hours 
considered  were:     Eleventh  Street  near  Kissling  Street,  3-4  A.M.;  and  Kissling 
Street  west  of  Eleventh  Street,  7-8  A.M.  and  4-5  P.M. 

The  acoustical  consultant  has  estimated  that  projected  project-related  traffic 
at  these  locations  would  not  increase  the  ambient  noise  level,  because  the  pre- 
dicted noise  levels  of  project-generated  vehicles  would  be  less  than  the  ambient, 
which  would  continue  to  be  dominated  by  truck,  bus  and  other  noise  sources. 

Air  Quality  Impacts 

Transportation-related .      A  study  of  air  quality  impacts  of  the  proposed  project 
has  been  prepared  according  to  the  guidelines  published  by  the  Bay  Area  Air  Pollu- 
tion Control  District  (BAAPCD)  in  "Guidelines  for  Air  Quality  Impact  Analysis  of 
Projects"  June,  1975.     That  study  is  presented  in  Appendix  B. 

Because  the  peak  hour  and  highest  eight  hours  of  project  traffic  differ  from 
those  of  the  surrounding  area,  the  relative  increases  in  carbon  monoxide  emissions 


See  Appendix  A,  page  113. 


-  32  - 


were  calculated  for  times  of  peak  project  traffic  (7-8:00  A.M.),  thus  indicating 
the  greatest  impact  of  that  traffic  on  air  quality  levels.     It  is  possible  that 
at  points  of  severe  traffic  congestion,  project  traffic  may  impact  air  quality 
more  significantly  than  these  calculations  suggest  during  the  afternoon  peak  hours. 
These  calculations  show  (see  Table  B-1,  p.  125)  that  the  highest  roadside  one-hour 
carbon  monoxide  concentration  would  be  expected  to  reach  2520  micrograms  per  cubic 
meter  (yg/m^)  oh  Tenth  Street  north  of  Mission  Street  (Federal  health  standard  is 
40,000  yg/m^)  and  the  highest  eight-hour  concentration  would  be  expected  to  reach 
326  yg/m    on  Tenth  Street  north  of  Bryant  Street  (Federal  health  standard  is 
10,000  yg/m^). 

Project-related  nitrogen  dioxide  emissions  would  increase  one-hour  concen- 
trations 8,5  yg/m^  in  the  area  while  a  mean  high-hour  concentration  of  105  yg/m^ 
was  measured  in  San  Francisco  by  the  BAAPCD  in  December,   1975  and  the  State  of 
California  standard  for  such  concentrations  is  500  yg/m^.     Non-methane  hydrocarbon 
emissions  would  increase  6:00-9:00  A.M.  concentrations  in  the  area  20.9  yg/m^ 
while  the  Federal  standard  for  such  concentrations  is  160  yg/m^   (no  local  measure- 
ments were  available).     Local  concentrations  in  garages  may  reach  levels    in  excess 
of  the  above  guidelines  (ventilation  systems  are  designed  to  prevent  excessive 
concentration  in  areas  most  frequented  by  users). 

Heat-emissions  from  structure.     Heat  would  be  liberated  to  the  atmosphere 
from  all  sources  in  the  project  at  an  average  daily  rate  of  19,800,000  BTU's. 

Impact  on  Public  Utilities 

Fossil  Fuel.     There  would  be  no  requirement  for  natural  gas  to  serve  this 
building. 

Electricity.     Electrical  power  is  available  from  the  pole  line  along  Twelfth 
Street.      A  PG&E  transformer  would  be  located  in  a  sidewalk  vault  or  on  the  site 
to  serve  the  building.     Bentley  Engineers,  Inc.-W.  A.  Di  Giacomo  Associates  Inc. 
estimate  the  total  connected  utility  load  at  265  kilowatts  ^kw)  and  average  demand 
at  218  kilowatts.    Pacific  Gas  and  Electric  Company  advises    that  the  electrical 
power  distribution  network  in  the  vicinity  of  the  project  is  adequate  to  supply 
these  power  needs. 


Verbal  communications  between  Bentley  Engineers,  Inc.  and  Bob  Podesta, 
Engineer,  Pacific  Gas  and  Electric  Company,  May  20,  1976. 

^Verbal  communications  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Bob  Podesta, 
Engineer,  Pacific  Gas  and  Electric  Company,  June  24,  1976. 


-  33  - 


The  engineers'  preliminary  electrical  calculations  indicate  that  the  connected 
load  and  average  demand  would  be  distributed  as  indicated  in  Table  3, 


Table  3:     PROJECT  ELECTRICAL  LOAD 


Average 

Connected  Demand 


Elevator 

44 

kw 

26 

kw 

Ventilation 

120 

kw 

96 

kw 

Heating  and  Misc. 

16 

kw 

11 

kw 

Lighting 

85 

kw 

85 

kw 

TOTAL 

265 

kw 

218 

kw 

Source:     Bentley  Engineers,  Inc,-W,  A,  Di  Giacomo  Associates,  Inc. 


The  biggest  electrical  load  would  be  the  ventilation  motors.     These  would  be 
sized  as  small  as  possible  in  order  to  conserve  energy  and  still  comply  with  codes. 
The  next  largest  load  is  projected  to  be  lighting.     A  lighting  intensity  of  four- 
teen foot-candles  in  traffic  lanes  which  is  comparable  to  the  lighting  intensity 
in  San  Francisco  Airport  garage  aisleways  and  seven  foot-candles  in  storage  areas  whic 
is  comparable  to  that  found  in  Portsmouth  Square  garage  storage  areas  has  been 
assumed.     Fluorescent  fixtures  would  be  used  in  the  covered  area;  post-top  mercury 
vapor  or  metal  halide  would  be  used  in  rooftop  (outdoor)  areas.     These  light 
sources  provide  approximately  65  lumens  per  watt  compared  with  20  lumens  per  watt 
for  incandescent  lamps.     Electric  space  heating  would  be  provided  in  the  guards' 
office  and  waiting  lobby  only.     Table  4  presents  estimates  of  the  electricity 
use  of  the  proposed  parking  structure. 


Table  4:     ESTIMATED  PROJECT  ELECTRICITY  CONSUMPTION 


Average  kilowatt  hours  (kwh)  used  per  day  5,800  kwh 

Average  kilowatt  hours  (kwh)  used  per  month  177,000  kwh 

Average  kilowatt  hours  (kwh)  used  per  year  2,130,000  kwh 

Average  kilowatt  hours  (kwh)  used  per  month  per  sq.  ft.                          2.170  kwh 


Source:     Bentley  Engineers,  Inc.-W.  A.  Di  Giacomo  Associates,  Inc. 


Based  on  average  daily  use  and  a  full  24  hours  per  day,   365  days  per  year 
operation,  the  yearly  electrical  load  would  be  2.13  million  kwh  per  year.  Daily 
use  would  vary  from  5,930  kwh  in  winter  to  5,740  kwh  in  summer.     The  main  variation 
in  load  would  be  due  to  increased  hours  per  day  for  outside  lighting  and  increased 
space  heating  load  during  the  winter  months. 

Electrical  service  would  be  at  480/277  volts,  3-phase,  4-wire,  with  receptacles 
at  120/208  volts.     The  higher  voltage  would  be  used  for  lighting  and  motor  loads. 


-  34  - 


The  anticipated  daily  electric  load  distribution  curve  is  presented  in  Figure  22; 
the  anticipated  annual  electrical  load  distribution  is  presented  in  Figure  23. 


Figure  22:     ACCUMULATIVE  ELECTRICAL  DEMAND  LOAD  (Average) 


0  0300         0600         0900  1200         1500  1800         2100  2400 

(noon)  (midnight) 

Hours  of  the  day 


Source:     Bentley  Engineers  Inc,-W.  A.  Di  Giacomo  Associates,  Inc. 


-  35  - 


Figure  23:     ANNUAL  ACCUMULATIVE  ELECTRICAL 
LOAD  CURVE 


6000 


5000 


4000 


3000 


2000 


1000 


/ 

/  / 


VENTILATION 


/ 


/ 


JAN       FEB       MAR      APR      MAY       JUN       JUL       AUG        SEP       OCT       NOV       DEC  JAN 


Source:     Bentley  Engineers  Inc.-W.  A.  Di  Giacomo  Associates,  Inc, 


Impact  on  Public  Services 

Water.     Water  consumption  would  be  at  most  2,500  gallons  per  day,  with  a 
peak  load  of  50  gallons  per  minute  including  domestic  water  and  landscape  irri- 
gation and  a  peak  load  of  650  gallons  per  minute  for  fire-fighting.     Water  con- 
sumption is  estimated  on  the  basis  of  10  gallons  per  use  of  the  restrooms  assuming 
200  of  the  1800  employees  using  the  structure  per  day  would  use  the  restrooms. 
Approximately  500  gallons  per  day  would  be  used  for  landscape  irrigation.  The 
San  Francisco  Water  Department    advises  that  ample  water  exists  on  either  Twelfth 
Street  or  Kissling  Street.     The  area  of  the  project  is  furnished  with  water  from 
University  Mound  Re  servoir  (150,000,000  gallons)  and  from  Balboa  Reservoir 
(60,000,000  gallons). 

Sewer  Service.     Sewer  service  in  the  area  of  the  proposed  site  is  by  com- 
bined storm  and  sanitary  sewers  as  elsewhere  in  San  Francisco.     The  sewers  are 
of  sufficient  capacity  to  accept  sanitary  sewer  and  storm  runoff  within  the 
design  criteria  of  the  once-in-five-year  storm.     Sewage  from  this  area  is  treated 


Based  on  verbal  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Mr.  Cy 
Wentworth,  City  Distribution  Division,  San  Francisco  Water  Department, 
May  21,  1976. 


-  36  - 


at  the  North  Point  Water  Pollution  Control  Plant.    The  capacity  of  that  plant  is 
65  million  gallons  per  day. 

Project  sewage  generation  would  be  approximately  1,500  gallons  per  day  which 
is  equivalent  to  about  0.002  percent  of  treatment  capacity  at  the  North  Point  plant. 
Sewage  plus  storm  runoff  together  could  create  a  peak  flow  of  561  gallons  per 
minute,  which  is  approximately  equivalent  to  1,2  percent  of  treatment  capacity. 
Average  sewage  generation  is  estimated  based  on  the  estimate  of  average  domestic 
water  use  (2000  gallons  per  day)  while  peak  sewage  generation  is  estimated  based 
on  peak  domestic  water  use  (45  gallons  per  minute)  plus  storm  sewage  generation 
based  on  4,5  inches  of  rainfall  per  hour  (516  gallons  per  minute). 

Capacity  of  the  North  Point  Water  Pollution  Control  Plant  was  exceeded  during 
47  hours  in  1975-76,  during  which  times  the  plant  operated  at  capacity  and  dis- 
charged the  excess  flow  untreated  into  the  San  Francisco  Bay  at  the  Main  and 
Howard  outfall.      The  City  is  pursuing  a  program  which  would  include  expansion  of 
water  pollution  control  plants.     On  May  21,  1976  the  State  of  California,  Regional 
Water  Quality  Control  Board  imposed  a  moratorium  on  sewer  connections  in  the 
City  until  certain  inadequacies  in  the  program  and  its  administration  were 
rectified.    Thereafter  relief  was  granted  monthly  in  that  the  building  permits 
which  had  been  accumulated  during  the  previous  month  were  released  so  long  as 
the  City  could  show  that  it  was  making  progress  towards  solving  the  problems  cited 
by  the  Regional  Water  Quality  Control  Board,     On  November  16,  1976,  evidence  was 
presented  that  the  last  of  the  problems  had  been  solved  and  the  moratorium  was 
lifted. 

Impact  on  Public  Safety 

Both  the  Police  and  Fire  Departments  of  San  Francisco  expect  no  change  in 
the  leve^  of  services  provided  to  the  area  as  a  result  of  the  parking  garage 
project. 

Land  Use  Impacts 

Use  of  the  site  for  a  parking  facility  would  continue  the  evolution  of  land 
uses  in  the  area  from  heavy  manufacturing  to  light  manufacturing,  service  and 
business  support  activities.     The  project  would  bring  more  pedestrians  to  the 
streets  in  the  project  area,  possibly  making  them  safer. 

Replacement  of  the  existing  industrial  buildings  on  the  project  site 
would  not  displace  existing  uses  since  the  buildings  are  now  vacant. 
Cardoza  Bookbinding  Company,  which  fomnerly  occupied  the  three-story 
building,  was  moved  to  Second  Street  by  Stecher-Traung-Schmidt  Corporation 
(STS)  in  1973,  and  was  altogether  shut  down  in  October  1974,    Reasons  for 


Verbal  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Mervin  Francies,  En- 
gineering Associate  II,  Sanitary  Engineering,  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public 
Works,  January  18,  1977. 

^Written  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Mr.  Robert  Rose,  Chief, 
Division  of  Planning  and  Research,  San  Francisco  Fire  Department   (Jan.  7,   1976)  and 
Officer  Robert  Bernardini,  Planning  and  Research  Bureau,  San  Francisco  Police 
Department  (Jan.  6,   1976).     Copies  of  this  correspondence  are  filed  with  the 
San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning,  Office  of  Environmental  Review. 


-  37  - 


the  shutdown  were  high  labor  costs  and  high  taxes  faced  by  the  company,     (STS,  the 
largest  printer  in  San  Francisco,  continues  to  operate,  but  now  jobs  out  the  binding 
operation  to  a  Chicago  firm.)      Carnation  Company  previously  used  the  gmall  one- 
story  building  for  storage,  but  vacated  the  structure  in  August,  1976, 

Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  interviewed  area  businesses  concerning  potential 
project  impacts.  Some  commercial  trade  would  probably  result  from  individuals 
walking  to  and  from  the  data  center.  Automobile  service  dealers,  particularly 
tire  dealers,  expect  their  trade  to  increase  somewhat  because  of  more  individuals 
passing  through  the  area.  It  is  also  possible  that  other  commercial  activities 
such  as  coffee  shops  or  drug  stores  may  develop  to  serve  employees  who  walk  to 
the  data  center  during  daytime  hours. 

Neighborhood  Character 

Operators  of  businesses  in  the  area  generally  do  not  expect  that  their  bus- 
inesses would  be  affected  by  the  project  except  for  some  of  those  operating  auto- 
mobile services  who  felt  their  business  might  improve.     Few  felt  that  the  project 
would  impact  either  the  difficulty  they  and  their  employees  have  finding  parking 
or  their  perception  of  the  area  as  experiencing  a  high  incidence  of  crime,  which 
were  the  two  most  commonly  cited  characteristics  of  the  area. 

The  increased  pedestrian  traffic  that  would  be  generated  by  the  project  may 
result  in  increased  litter  on  the  streets  which  data  center  employees  would  most 
likely  traverse.  It  is  not  known  what  volume  of  litter  might  be  generated;  how- 
ever, the  bank  has  suggested  two  mitigation  measures  which  are  discussed  on  page 
44. 

The  proposed  structure  would  also  have  a  visual  impact  on  the  neighborhood. 
Profiles  of  the  proposed  structure  viewed  from  Twelfth  Street  and  Howard  Street 
and  Twelfth  Street  and  Folsom  Street  are  shown  in  Figures  24  and  25  (p.  39). 

Economic  and  Fiscal  Impacts 

Employment  and  multiplier  impact.  There  would  be  one  security  guard  on  duty 
at  the  garage  at  all  times.  With  three  eight-hour  work  shifts,  then,  there  would 
be  three  permanent  jobs  at  the  parking  structure  itself.  It  is  estimated  that  two 
shuttle  bus  drivers  would  be  employed  on  each  of  three  shifts,  for  a  total  of  six. 
New  direct  jobs  would  total  9.  With  the  multiplier  of  1.6,  discussed  in  the  con- 
struction impacts  section  5  to  6  indirect  jobs  would  be  generated,  for  a  total  of 
14  to  15  direct  and  indirect  (parking  structure  and  non-parking  structure)  jobs. 


Verbal  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Bill  Fahey,  Stecher- 
Traung-Schmidt  Corporation   (STS),  March  12,  1976. 

) 

Verbal  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Ted  McClatchy, 
Property  Manager,  Continental  Services  Company,  January  25,  1977. 

Based  on  interviews  conducted  by  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  of  106  businesses 
listed  in  Chapter  XI   (pp.  62-64). 


-  38  - 


Figure  24:     PROFILE  FROM  HOWARD  STREET 


-  39  - 


Impact  on  San  Francisco's  assessed  valuation.     The  1976/77  assessed  valuation 
of  the  property  at  the  proposed  site  for  land  and  improvements  is  $77,250  and 
$150,000  respectively.     It  is  assumed  that  the  value  of  the  land  would  not  change 
if  the  parking  structure  is  built.     Therefore,  the  only  change  would  be  the  difference 
between  the  current  value  of  the  improvements   (i.e.  the  bookbindery)   and  the  value 
of  the  parking  structure,  which  would  be  taken  as  the  cost  of  construction. 

The  construction  cost  of  the  project  is  estimated  at  $3  million.  Assessed 
valuation  would  therefore  be  $750,000  or  $600,000  greater  than  the  existing  building. 
Given  the  1976/77  tax  rate  of  $12.82  per  $100  assessed  valuation,  the  new  building 
would  have  a  property  tax  bill  of  $96,200,  which  is  about  $76,900  greater  than  the 
existing  building. 


-  40  - 


V.     MITIGATION  MEASURES 


MITIGATION  OF  DEMOLITION  AND  CONSTRUCTION  IMPACTS 
(INCLUDING  ARCHAEOLOGICAL) 

Public  Safety  and  Systems 

The  project  general  contractor,  Dinwiddle  Construction  Company,  would  comply 
with  safety,  sanitary  and  medical  requirements  as  prescribed  by  federal,  state, 
and  local  laws  and  regulations,  and  do  everything  else  that  would  minimize  hazards 
and  discomfort  to  employees  and  the  public  during  demolition  and  construction. 
Work  areas  would  be  kept  free  of  dust,  utilizing  industry-accepted  methods  of 
dust  control,  such  as  sprinkling.     Prompt  removal  of  debris  is  planned  to  minimize 
potential  unsightliness  during  construction.     Special  care  would  be  taken  during 
the  construction  period  to  insure  that  there  would  be  no  disruption  of  the  City's 
catch  basins  and  that  no  construction  debris  would  enter  City  sewer  facilities. 
Appropriate  measures  to  maintain  adequate  fire  protection  would  be  taken  in  con- 
sultation with  Fire  Department  inspectors. 

Noise 

City  ordinances  with  respect  to  noise  would  be  observed.     While  impact  tools 
are  not  subject  to  this  restriction,  they  would  be  equipped  with  intake  and  ex- 
haust mufflers  as  recommended  by  the  manufacturer  and  would  be  approved  by  the 
Department  of  Public  Works.     Impact  equipment  would  be  used  no  longer  than  absolutely 
necessary.     Noisy  operations  would  be  limited  to  daytime  hours  when  ambient  noise 
and  noise  tolerances  are  higher. 

Materials  Re-use 

It  is  anticipated  that  some  of  the  glass  and  steel  from  the  existing  structures 
which  would  be  demolished  would  be  salvaged  and  reused. 

Truck  Traffic 

Truck  traffic  to  and  from  the  site  is  expected  to  occur  between  8:30  A.M. 
and  4:30  P.M. 

Archaeological  Discoveries 

Should  archaeological  discoveries  be  made,  the  contractor  would  be  bound  by 
contract  to  stop  construction  to  permit  professional  evaluation  of  the  find. 

TRANSPORTATION  IMPACTS 

Ride-pooling  to  the  Parking  Garage 

The  bank  has  assisted  employees  in  forming  ride  pools  by  providing  carpool 
communication  boards.     To  encourage  the  formation  of  carpools  the  bank  provides 
free  parking  to  carpools  (defined  as  a  group  of  A  or  5  employees  using  one  auto) 
during  the  day  when  other  users  of  the  parking  spaces  the  bank  currently  owns  are 
charged  a  fee. 


-  41  - 


The  establishment  of  a  system  of  ride-pooling  using  bank-owned  vehicles  is 
another  possible  mitigation  measure.     This  system  would  involve  the  bank's  pro- 
viding a  vehicle  (and  parking  space)  for  any  group  of,  say,  four  or  five  persons 
who  wish  to  ride-pool.     Such  a  system  reduces  auto  traffic,  reduces  daytime  transit 
impact,  and  could  provide  a  safe  and  efficient  means  of  travel  for  swing  and  mid- 
night shift  employees  while  reducing  nighttime  parking  demand.     The  bank  is  not 
presently  considering  this  approach,  but  would  do  so  if  an  independent  study  and 
experience  indicated  that  it  would  be  effective  in  reducing  auto  commute  trips. 
This  approach,  however,  would  not  affect  all  employees  uniformly,  and  the  bank 
would  prefer  not  to  implement  an  approach  which  would  provide  benefits  to  some  em- 
ployees while  excluding  others. 

Staggering  of  Work  Hours 

While  there  would  be  considerable  staggering  of  working  hours  based  on  the 
data  center  work  processing  schedules,  explained  in  the  data  center  EIR  (EE  74.128), 
further  refinements  may  be  possible.     The  bank  is  giving  consideration  to  further 
staggering  of  schedules  through  the  24-hour  day,  consistent  with  operational 
efficiency,  as  a  means  of  reducing  internal  as  well  as  external  congestion.  Even 
modest  changes  (5  to  10-minute  schedule  adjustments)  would  reduce  congestion  inter- 
nally, and  would  have  the  benefit  of  further  spreading  out  employee  commutation  to 
avoid  undue  concentration  of  arrivals  and  departures  during  peak  commute  hours, 
as  well  as  at  other  times  of  the  day.     The  Bank  of  America  has  agreed  to  continue 
to  work  toward  a  comprehensive  staggered  work  hours  program  to  help  minimize  the 
transportation  impact  of  the  proposed  project. 

Shuttle  Buses 

The  proposed  routes  of  the  shuttle  buses  operating  between  the  parking  struc- 
ture and  the  data  center  and  the  passenger  access  points  for  these  buses  have 
been  arranged  so  as  to  minimize  impacts  on  traffic  in  the  area.     The  impact  of  the 
shuttle  buses  on  residents  living  on  Kissling  Street  would  be  minimized  by  the 
buses  taking  the  Howard  Street  routing  during  nighttime  hours  (6:00  P.M.  to  7:00  A.M.) 

Parking  Space  Striping 

Striping  dimensions  in  the  parking  structure  would  be  varied  to  provide  spaces 
specifically  for  small  cars.     Initially,  forty  percent  of  the  spaces  would  be 
striped  for  smaller  cars,  compact  and  sub-compact  vehicles.     Such  striping  would 
enable  maximal  use  of  space  within  the  structure.     The  stripes  may  be  repainted 
at  some  time  in  the  future  when  more  small  cars  are  in  use;  it  would  then  provide 
even  greater  accommodation  of  vehicles  and  thereby  reduce  the  need  for  parking 
facilities  elsewhere  although  the  percentage  increase  in  capacity  would  depend  on 
the  types  of  autos  owned  by  data  center  employees  in  the  future. 

Priority  When  Allocating  Parking  Spaces  to  Day  Shift  Workers 

The  proposed  project  is  designed  to  meet  the  parking  needs  of  the  swing  and 
midnight  shift  workers;  however,  it  would  be  available  for  use  by  daytime  workers 
as  well.     Because  there  would  not  be  enough  parking  spaces  in  the  proposed  structure 
to  accommodate  vehicles  of  all  day  shift  workers.  Bank  of  America  has  devised  a 
priority  system  to  allocate  the  available  spaces.    Priority  would  be  given  to  car- 
pools  and  handicapped  employees;  the  remaining  spaces  would  be  distributed  on  a 
first-come,  first-served  basis.     Implementation  of  this  system  would  reduce  use 
of  automobiles  by  encouraging  carpools. 


-  42  - 


Vehicular  Noise  Impacts 


Measures  would  be  taken  to  reduce  project  traffic  and  its  concomitant  noise 
on  Kissling  Street,  because  this  street  accommodates  more  residences  than  others 
in  the  immediate  vicinity.     First,  the  Bank  of  America  intends  to  request  its 
employees  not  to  use  Kissling  Street  when  traveling  to  and  from  the  structure. 
Second,  ingress  to  and  egress  from  the  structure  would  be  located  on  Twelfth  Street 
so  that  it  would  not  be  necessary  for  users  to  travel  on  Kissling  Street.  Third, 
the  shuttle  bus  would  use  Howard  Street  rather  than  Kissling  Street  at  night,  there- 
by keeping  that  noise  away  from  the  residences  at  the  time  when  people  are  generally 
home. 

Street  Capacity 

The  near  capacity  situation  that  would  be  created  by  the  addition  of  project 
related  traffic  on  Thirteenth  Street  could  be  mitigated  by  modifying  a  portion  of 
the  perpendicular  curb  parking  on  the  north  side  of  Thirteenth  Street  between 
South  Van  Ness  Avenue  and  Mission  Street.     The  present  curb  restriction  could  be 
rebuilt  to  allow  three  westbound  approach  lanes  on  Thirteenth  Street  at  Mission 
Street.     This  would  increase  traffic  capacity  to  2,100  vehicles  per  hour  (at  Level 
of  Service  D,  defined  on  p.  93)  which  would  result  in  a  volume-capacity  ratio  of 
0.63  rather  than  0.94.     This  would  also  result  in  a  loss  of  15-20  street  parking 
spaces  currently  used  primarily  by  employees  of  businesses  in  the  area. 

Modification  of  the  present  protective  curb  on  westbound  Thirteenth  Street 
at  Mission  Street  would  require  a  study  by  the  Division  of  Traffic  Engineering, 
Department  of  Public  Works,  and  other  affected  public  agencies,  a  public  hearing, 
approval  of  the  Board  of  Supervisors  and  passage  of  an  appropriate  ordinance 
authorizing  the  curb  removal/reconstruction  and  the  changes  in  existing  curb  parking 
required  to  provide  the  additional  westbound  traffic  lane  at  Mission  Street. 

An  increase  in  the  traffic  carrying  capacity  of  southbound  Twelfth  Street 
at  Folsom  Street  might  also  be  possible  through  a  combination  of  rest rip ing  and 
curb  parking  prohibitions  during  the  P.M.  peak  traffic  period.     A  refinement  of 
existing  signal  timing  would  also  be  another  potential  means  of  mitigating  the 
impact  of  projected  parking  structure  traffic.     These  measures  would  require  study 
by  the  Division  of  Traffic  Engineering.     Potential  changes  in  curb  parking  would 
also  require  review  by  others,  such  as  the  Police  Department,  public  hearings  and 
a  vote  of  the  Board  of  Supervisors. 

Similarly,  further  study  and  refinement  of  existing  signal  timing  at  the 
Tenth  Street  and  Bryant  Street  intersection  would  be  a  means  of  mitigating  anti- 
cipated P.M.  peak  hour  traffic  conditions  on  Tenth  Street.     The  San  Francisco 
Department  of  Public  Works,  Division  of  Traffic  Engineering  would  study  the  signal 
timing  and  make  any  feasible  improvements. 

Bicycle  Parking 

The  use  of  the  bicycle  as  an  alternative  mode  of  transportation  would  be  en- 
couraged by  the  bank.     However,  rather  than  requiring  bicycle  riders  to  park  at 
the  proposed  structure  and  walk  or  ride  the  shuttle  bus  to  the  data  center,  bicycle 
parking  will  be  provided  on  the  accessory  parking  level  in  the  new  data  center  in 
an  amount  sufficient  to  satisfy  the  demand  as  was  proposed  in  the  data  center 
EIR  (EE  74.128,  p.  114). 

Verbal  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  William  Marconi,  Senior 
Traffic  Engineer,  San  Francisco  Department  of  Public  Works,  Division  of  Traffic 
Engineering,  March  15,  1977. 


-  43  - 


STREET  LITTER 


The  bank  would  maintain  litter  cans  at  the  pedestrian  entrance  and  exit  to 
the  proposed  structure  and  sweep  the  sidewalks  on  Twelfth  Street  and  Klssllng 
Street  in  front  of  the  structure  as  part  of  its  routine  maintenance  procedures. 

STRUCTURAL 

Seismic  Risk  Mitigation 

The  site  on  which  the  parking  structure  is  proposed  to  be  located  is  not  con- 
sidered to  be  subject  to  major  subsidence  or  liquefaction  in  case  of  an  earthquake 
(see  discussion,  p.  16). 

The  building  has  been  designed  with  solid  walls  where  required  to  resist 
damage  from  ground  shaking. 

Conservation  of  Energy  and  Natural  Resources 

The  parking  structure  has  been  designed  to  take  maximum  advantage  of  natural 
air  circulation,  thus  minimizing  the  need  for  mechanical  air  circulators.  All 
walls  not  required  by  earthquake  construction  standards  or  proximity  to  the 
property  line  to  be  solid  have  been  left  open  to  allow  air  movement. 

Electrical  service  would  be  at  480/277  volts  3-phase  4-wlre  service  for 
lighting  and  motor  loads,  instead  of  the  more  traditional  240/120  volt  3-wire 
service,  thereby  reducing  electrical  losses  in  the  lines  and  reducing  the  total 
volume  of  wiring. 

Landscaping 

Landscaping  consisting  of  street  trees,  low  shrubs  and  climbing  vines  on 
Twelfth  Street  and  trees,  ground  cover  and  climbing  vines  planted  between  the 
property  line  and  structure  on  the  other  three  sides  would  be  included  as  part 
of  the  project,  while  there  is  currently  no  landscaping  on  the  site. 

Headlamp  Shield  and  Lighting  Design 

The  lighting  in  the  structure  would  be  recessed  between  the  girders  supporting 
each  floor  and  would  be  shielded  on  the  ends  by  the  fixture  itself  so  that  there 
would  be  no  direct  glare  from  the  lighting  outside  of  the  structure.     In  addition, 
a  headlamp  shield  would  be  installed  to  prevent  glare  outside  the  structure  from 
headlights  of  autos  parking  or  circulating  within  the  structure. 


-  44  - 


VI.     UNAVOIDABLE  ADVERSE  ENVIROMENTAL  IMPACTS 


TRANSPORTATION 

The  proposed  project  would  increase  the  amount  of  traffic  in  the  study  area. 
It  is  expected  that  the  parking  structure  would  generate  over  4,300  additional 
vehicle  trips  a  day  (including  shuttle  buses).     While  these  would  add  traffic  to 
surrounding  streets,  none  would  be  expected  to  reach  capacity  conditions.  There 
is  also  a  potential  generation  of  a  maximum  of  about  540  additional  peak  hour 
vehicle  trips  per  day  into  the  area  because  spaces  currently  owned  or  leased  by 
the  bank  would  no  longer  be  required  and  could  be  made  available  for  all-day 
parking.     Pedestrian  traffic  can  be  expected  to  markedly  increase  in  the  area, 
although  capacity  conditions  are  not  expected  to  be  reached. 

LAND  USE  ■ 

With  the  addition  of  the  parking  garage,  land  use  in  the  area  would  become 
better  suited  to  industrial  and  commuter  purposes  and  less  well  suited  to  resi- 
dential use.     The  number  of  commuters  in  the  area  would  increase  relative  to  the 
number  of  residents  in  the  area.     Overall,  the  effect  would  be  to  change  the  area 
so  that  it  better  conforms  to  its  zoning  designation  for    light  industry  and  manu- 
facturing, 

AIR  POLLUTION 

The  proposed  structure  would  generate  additional  traffic  to  the  area  which 
would  result  in  increases  in  the  concentration  of  contaminants  in  the  air  in  the 
vicinity  and  downwind  of  the  project  site.     None  of  the  estimated  concentrations 
would  exceed  State  of  California  or  Federal  air  quality  standards. 


-  45  - 


VII.  ALTERNATIVES 


PHYSICAL  ALTERNATIVES 

Alternative  Locations 

Data  center  site.     Accommodation  of  parking  needs  at  the  Eleventh  Street 
and  Market  Street  site  of  the  data  center  expansion  project  was  originally  pro- 
posed by  the  bank.     Accommodating  parking  on  the  same  site  would  have  eliminated 
the  need  for  a  shuttle  bus  system  and  its  employment  impacts  and  allowed  direct 
employee  access  to  the  data  center.     This  alternative  would  not  have  involved 
demolition  of  the  structure  on  the  proposed  site,  and  some  alternative  use 
could  have  been  made  of  it.     The  fiscal  impact  of  an  alternative  building  pro- 
gram including  parking  on  the  data  center  site  and  displaced  bank  uses  on  a 
different  site  is  not  known. 

This  arrangement  was  subsequently  abandoned  in  order  (1)  to  conform  to  the 
City  Planning  Code,  which  allows  only  accessory  parking  in  a  C-3-G  zone  in  an 
amount  insufficient  to  meet  the  projected  needs  of  data  center  workers  and  (2) 
to  avoid  creating  traffic  impacts  on  Market  and  Mission  Streets  which  would  con- 
flict with  the  Transportation  Elements    San  Francisco  Comprehensive  Plan  (April  27 
1972).     In  particular,  the  proposed  location  is  not  as  conducive  as  the  data 
center  location  would  have  been  to  private  auto  use  of  Mission  Street,  which  is 
designated  in  the  plan  for  development  as  a  public  transit  corridor. 

Other  locations.     The  parking  structure  could  be  located  on  a  site  other 
than  the  data  center  or  proposed  site.     There  would  not  likely  be  more  than 
slight  variations  in  the  employment  or  fiscal  impacts  of  constructing  the  pro- 
posed parking  structure  on  any  different  site;  however,  there  could  be  larger 
differences  in  the  impacts  of  potential  demolition  at  another  site.     The  use 
of  any  alternative  site  would  again  leave  the  proposed  site  available  for  other 
uses. 

The  map  in  Figure  26  (p.  47)  shows  the  approximate  potential  search  areas 
for  an  alternative  site.     Sites  north  or  west  of  Mission  Street  (areas  A  and  B) 
would  not  have  been  considered  under  this  alternative  because  of  their  poor 
access  for  many  data  center  employees  or  potential  employees,  the  probability 
that  employee  access  routes  would  interfere  with  transit  routes,  and  the  higher 
land  values  and  smaller  parcels  of  land  that  might  have  been  encountered.  Of 
the  areas  south  and  east  of  Mission  Street  it  is  not  likely  that  a  site  in 


-  46  - 


Figure  26:     POTENTIAL  ALTERNATIVE  SITE  SEARCH  AREAS 


O  400 
SCALE  IN  FEET 


-  47  - 


the  area  generally  south  of  Fourteenth  Street  (area  C)  would  have  been  chosen 
because  of  the  smaller  parcels  of  land  and  higher  concentration  of  residential 
units  that  would  have  been  encountered  in  that  area.     Sites  northeast  of  Eleventh 
Street  (area  D)  would  have  been  the  most  likely  to  be  chosen  because  of  the 
relatively  large  land  parcels,  low  residential  density  and  good  freeway  access 
in  that  area. 

Generally,  land  values  in  area  D  would  tend  to  be  lower  further  from  Market 
Street.     Many  of  the  differential  impacts  of  the  choice  of  such  a  location  for 
the  parking  structure  would  vary  according  to  the  distance  of  the  alternative 
site  from  the  data  center.     The  energy  consumption  of  employees*   autos  might 
drop  if  the  alternative  site  allowed  them  to  drive  a  shorter  distance,  but  energy 
consumed  by  the  shuttle  buses  would  rise,  especially  since  data  center  employees 
who  may  be  willing  to  walk  during  daylight  hours  between  the  proposed  site  and 
the  data  center  would  be  less  likely  to  do  so  if  the  alternative  site  were  much 
further  from  the  data  center  than  the  currently  proposed  site.     Air  quality 
impacts  would  also  presumably  vary  according  to  distance  and  the  specific  site 
chosen.     As  distance  of  the  alternative  site  from  the  data  center  increases, 
more  employees  may  choose  to  forego  use  of  the  bank's  facility  and  the  long 
shuttle  bus  ride  for  perhaps  more  expensive,  but  closer,  parking.     Finally,  an 
alternative  location  in  this  area  could  have  different  impacts  on  transit 
routes . 

Alternative  Development  Schedule:     No  Phasing 

If  the  proposed  incremental  approach  to  providing  for  the  parking  needs  of 
the  swing  and  midnight  shift  data  center  employees  were  abandoned,  a  larger 
site  would  have  to  be  acquired,  which  would  likely  have  greater  employment  and 
fiscal  impacts  because  it  would  be  more  difficult  to  assemble  adjacent  parcels 
of  land  for  a  larger  site  without  relocating  some  employers.     Once  a  site  could 
be  secured,  the  whole  facility  could  either  be  constructed  at  once,  or  in  phases. 
If  it  were  done  in  phases,  the  unused  portion  of  the  site  would  either  have  to 
remain  vacant  or  accommodate  short  term  uses.     If  the  entire  facility  were  con- 
structed at  once,  the  availability  of  unnecessary  parking  capacity  during  the 
early  years  of  data  center  development  might  encourage  more  employees  to  drive 
to  work  at  least  during  that  period  and  perhaps  permanently. 

Alternative  Design 

A  parking  structure  design  with  horizontal  floors  connected  by  ramps, 
rather  than  the  proposed  sloped  floors,  was  considered.     The  advantage  of  such 
a  design  is  that  the  building  would  have  higher  reuse  potential  for  other  uses 
than  would  a  sloped  floor  building.     The  disadvantage  of  a  horizontal-floor 
building  is  that  it  is  less  efficient  for  parking.     For  example,  the  designed 
floor-to-floor  distance  in  the  proposed  structure  is  seven  feet  underneath  the 
beams.     Another  use  would  require  greater  distance  between  floors,  which  would 
result  in  the  elimination  of  one  floor  or  16%  of  the  structure.     Further,  hori- 
zontal floors  would  have  to  be  connected  by  ramps,  estimated  by  the  architect 
to  take  up  another  15%  of  the  structure.     Thus,  the  horizontal  floor  design 


-  48  - 


could  be  expected  to  have  about  30%  less  parking  floor  area  and  consequently  re- 
quire construction  of  more  parking  structures  to  accommodate  the  same  nvimber  of 
cars.     The  bank  feels  that  the  potential  for  changes  which  would  eliminate  the 
need  to  provide  parking  for  swing  and  midnight  shift  data  center  employees  is  low, 
therefore  the  bank  is  not  concerned  with  the  reuse  potential  of  the  proposed 
structure. 

OPERATIONAL  ALTERNATIVES 

Alternative  Shuttle  Bus  Routings  and 
Configurations  of  Kissling  Street 

The  proposed  shuttle  bus  routing  is  shown  as  routes  lA  and  IB  on  the  map  in 
Figure  27  (p.  50);  route  lA  via  Kissling  Street  would  be  used  during  daytime  hours 
(7AM-6PM)  and  route  IB  during  nighttime  hours  (6PM-7AM).     This  routing  is  dependent 
on  redirecting  Kissling  Street  one-way  towards  Eleventh  Street  and  the  abandonment 
of  the  streetcar  turn-out  tracks  on  Eleventh  Street.     Since  they  are  not  currently 
scheduled  to  be  abandoned  until  1980-81  an  alternative  routing  may  have  to  be 
used  until  that  time  to  avoid  potential  conflict  associated  with  the  proposed 
shuttle  bus  turn-around  on  Eleventh  Street  and  blockage  of  traffic  associated  with 
the  proposed  passenger  access  point  on  Eleventh  Street. 

Kissling  Street  two-way.     If  Kissling  Street  remained  a  two-way  street,  alter- 
native shuttle  bus  routings  might  be  preferable  due  to  traffic  safety  considerations. 
A  shuttle  routing  which  followed  that  now  proposed  for  the  night  hours  (route  IB, 
Figure  27)  could  be  considered.     This  alternative  would  require  permission  to  make 
the  now  prohibited  left  turn  from  Howard  Street  eastbound  to  Eleventh  Street  at 
all  hours  of  the  day.     This  maneuver  may  have  public  safety  impacts  since  it  involves 
turning  across  three  oncoming  lanes  that  are  heavily  traveled  during  the  day.  This 
routing  would  not  affect  the  potential  streetcar  conflict. 

Another  alternative  (route  2,  Figure  27)  would  be  to  route  the  buses  to  continue 
up  Twelfth  Street  and  South  Van  Ness  Avenue  from  the  proposed  parking  structure,  make 
a  right  turn  onto  Mission  Street  and  a  left  turn  onto  Eleventh  Street  to  a  passenger 
access  point  and  return  as  in  route  1.     The  left  turn  eastbound  from  Mission  Street 
to  Eleventh  Street  is  now  prohibited.     This  alternative  may  conflict  with  the  transit 
preferential  treatment  of  Mission  and  would  not  affect  the  potential  streetcar 
conflict. 

A  third  alternative  (route  3,  Figure  27)  would  have  the  buses  continue  up 
Twelfth  Street  and  South  Van  Ness  Avenue  from  the  proposed  project  site  to 
Market  Street,  turn  right  on  Market  Street,  right  on  Eleventh  Street  to  a  passenger 
access  point  on  Eleventh  Street,  then  return  as  in  route  1.     This  alternative  could 
impact  Market  Street  traffic  at  Eleventh  Street  and  would  conflict  with  the  traffic 
plan  for  Market  Street  under  which  Eleventh  Street  would  be  a  cul-de-sac  north  of 
Mission  Street,  however  it  avoids  the  turn-around  on  Eleventh  Street  and  if  the 
passenger  access  point  were  relocated  it  could  avoid  potential  streetcar  conflicts. 

A  fourth  alternative  (route  4,  Figure  27)  would  be  to  route  the  buses  from 
the  proposed  project  site  via  Twelfth  Street,  South  Van  Ness  Avenue  and  Market 
Street  to  a  stop  on  Market  Street  in  front  of  the  new  data  center,  then  returning 
via  Market  Street,  Tenth  Street,  Howard  Street,  Eleventh  Street,  Folsom  Street 
and  Twelfth  Street.     This  routing  may  affect  traffic  on  Market  Street  as  the 
buses  would  be  stopped  at  least  long  enough  to  discharge  and  receive  passengers; 
however,  it  would  not  conflict  with  the  Market  Street  traffic  plan  because  it 
would  not  utilize  Eleventh  Street  as  a  through  link  between  Market  and  Mission 
Streets  and  would  avoid  potential  streetcar  conflicts  on  Eleventh  Street. 

The  potential  traffic  impacts  of  these  four  alternatives  on  Kissling  Street 
are  shown  in  Table  5   (p.  51). 


-  49  - 


LEGEND : 

  Route  1;  lA:  7AM-6PM  only; 

IB:  6PM- 7AM  only. 

*  •  •  • •   Route  2 
Route  3 
■  *   Route  4 

■    Passenger  access  point 
-  50  - 


Table  5:     TRAFFIC  IMPACTS  OF  OPERATIONAL  ALTERNATIVES 
ON  KISSLING  STREET  (average  daily  traffic) 


One-way  Towards 

Eleventh  Street  One-way  Towards 
 As  Proposed  Two-way  Twelfth  Street 

Shuttle  buses  105  0  105 

Project-related  autos: 

with  bank  mitigation  0  0  0 

without  bank  mitigation  180  230  50 

Existing  two-way  traffic  on  Kissling  Street  is  approximately  340  vehicles 
per  day. 

Source:     Linscott,  Law  and  Greenspan 

While  the  bank  does  intend  to  discourage  employees  from  using  Kissling 
Street,  the  project  traffic  engineer  has  estimated  the  number  of  autos  which 
would  use  Kissling  Street  without  this  discouragement  in  order  to  describe 
the  potential  traffic  impacts  in  the  absence  of  the  bank's  mitigation  of 
traffic  impacts  on  Kissling  Street. 

Kissling  Street  one-way  towards  Twelfth  Street.     Under  this  alternative,  it 
would  be  possible  to  consider  all  of  the  four  alternatives  discussed  in  the 
previous  section  and  the  alternative  of  returning  from  the  data  center  via 
Eleventh  Street  and  Kissling  Street  to  a  passenger  access  point  on  Kissling 
Street  at  Twelfth  Street  during  daytime  hours  as  shown  in  Figure  28  (p.  52). 
This  alternative  would  provide  a  slightly  shorter  route  during  the  day,  but 
would  require  the  designation  of  two  instead  of  one  passenger  loading  zones 
(white  curb  markings)  at  the  project  site.     It  would  also  make  employee  access 
from  the  proposed  structure  to  the  shuttle  bus  and  vice  versa  during  the  day 
less  convenient  since  the  daytime  shuttle  bus  access  point  would  be  on  the 
north  side  of  Kissling  Street  at  Twelfth  Street  or  on  Twelfth  Street  just  north 
of  Kissling  Street  while  the  structure  access  points  are  on  Twelfth  Street  over 
150  feet  south  of  Kissling  Street.     The  potential  traffic  impacts  of  this  alter- 
native on  Kissling  Street  are  also  shown  in  Table  5  (above). 

NO  PROJECT  ALTERNATIVE 

If  the  proposed  project  were  abandoned,  the  existing  building  would  pro- 
bably not  be  demolished.     As  of  December  1,   1976,  the  three-story  building  was 
being  used  as  a  storage  facility  for  unused  equipment,  with  no  employees.  During 
December,  1976,  the  building  was  vacated.       The  one-story  adjoining  building  has 
been  vacant  since  August,  1976, 


Verbal  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Dick  O'Connor, 
Stecher-Traung-Schmidt,  former  tenants  of  the  building,  December  9,  1976. 


-  51  - 


I 


LEGEND : 

  Route  1;   lA:   7AM-6PM  only;   IB:  6PM-7AM  only 

•  •  • ♦  •    Route  2 

  Route  3 

 :  Route  4 

■     Passenger  access  point 


-  52  - 


If  no  parking  garage  were  built,  the  buildings  would  likely  be  used  for 
some  other  industrial  purpose.     Given  that  the  predominant  industries  in  the 
surrounding  area  are  automobile-servicing  and  clothing  manufacturing,  it  is 
possible  that  firms  in  either  of  these  two  industries  would  find  the  structures 
suitable.    The  daily  auto  trip  generation  of  either  of  these  types  of  activities 
would  probably  be  less  than  that  of  the  proposed  parking  structure.     The  air 
quality  and  traffic  noise  impacts  of  either  would  probably  also  be  less  than 
those  of  the  proposed  parking  structure,  because  of  this  traffic  volume  re- 
lationship; however,  total  air  quality  and  noise  impact  differences  would  depend 
on  what  type  of  industrial  uses  were  located  in  the  buildings  and  their  hours 
of  operation. 

It  is  also  possible  that  the  existing  structures  could  be  converted  to 
office  use.     The  location  is  over  one-half  mile  from  the  Civic  Center  and  over 
a  mile  from  the  financial  district.     Office  users  seeking  space  with  access  to 
both  the  downtown  and  freeways  and/or  users  seeking  inexpensive  space  because 
they  combine  office  and  commercial/industrial  activities  might  consider  leasing 
or  purchasing  space  at  this  location.     Based  on  office  rent  levels  and  the  pur- 
chase price  of  the  property,  the  feasibility  of  conversion  of  the  space  to  office 
use  is  questionable.       The  daily  auto  trip  generation  of  office  use  would  pro- 
bably be  less  than  that  of  the  proposed  parking  structure  though  many  of  the 
trips  would  likely  be  made  during  peak  commute  hours.     The  air  quality  and 
traffic  noise  impacts  of  office  uses  would  also  probably  be  less  than  those  of 
the  proposed  parking  structure. 

If  no  parking  garage  were  built,  the  bank  would  continue  to  lease  the  parking 
spaces  it  currently  leases  and  would  attempt  to  lease  or  purchase  additional 
spaces,  potentially  displacing  other  uses  in  the  area.     If  the  bank  did  not  lease 
or  purchase  sufficient  spaces,  local  streets  in  the  area  could  be  impacted  by 
bank  employees  searching  for  parking.     It  would  also  be  more  difficult  and/or 
costly  to  provide  the  level  of  shuttle  bus  service  and  security  to  employees 
parking  at  numerous  leased  or  purchased  facilities  than  at  the  proposed  facility. 


Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates,  January,  1977, 


-  53  - 


VIII.     RELATIONSHIP  BETWEEN  LOCAL,  SHORT-TERM  USE  OF 
MAN'S  ENVIRONLIENT  AND  THE  MAINTENANCE  AND 
ENHANCEMENT  OF  LONG-TERM  PRODUCTIVITY 

CUMULATIVE  EFFECTS 

The  proposed  parking  structure  represents  a  continuation  of  a  trend  which 
finds  downtown  San  Francisco  being  gradually  surrounded  by  a  "ring"  of  parking 
garages.     Such  a  "ring"  of  parking  facilities  is  in  line  with  one  policy  suggested 
in  the  joint  study  by  the  Departments  of  Public  Works  and  City  Planning  of  policies 
and  programs  for  parking  management.  Parking  in  San  Francisco.     Policy  #2  of  the 
plan  for  downtown  parking  states,  "Limit  the  location  of  long-term  parking  facil- 
ities to  areas  peripheral  to  the  downtown  commercial  district".     Assuming  con- 
tinuing construction  of  parking  facilities,  a  result  of  this  policy  will  be  the 
concentration  of  such  facilities  and  their  traffic,  air  quality  and  noise  impacts 
in  this  "ring." 

POTENTIAL  OF  THE  PROJECT  FOR  REDUCING  THE 
RANGE  OF  BENEFICIAL  USES  OF  THE  ENVIRONMENT 

Unlike  a  residential  structure,  or  even  a  commercial  or  industrial  site,  a 
parking  garage  is  an  impersonal  use  of  land  which  does  not  add  to  the  community 
feeling  of  a  particular  area.     Permanent  employment  is  small  and  people  who  use 
the  building  are  transients  who  generally  care  little  about  the  area  surrounding 
the  place  where  they  park  their  cars.     To  this  extent,  the  parking  structure  would 
be  less  community-oriented  than  a  project  that  was  oriented  to  residential  or  in- 
dustrial activity. 

POTENTIAL  OF  THE  PROJECT  TO  POSE  LONG-TERM 
RISKS  TO  HEALTH  AND  SAFETY 

The  proposed  project  is  not  expected  to  pose  any  risks  to  health  and  safety. 

THE  IMPLIED  COSTS  AND  BENEFITS  OF  UTILIZING 

THE  SITE  NOW  RATHER  THAN  RESERVING  IT  FOR  ALTERNATIVE 

FUTURE  USE 

Use  of  the  project  site  now,  for  a  parking  structure,  would  preclude  its 
use  for  other  activities  or  buildings  during  the  life  of  the  structure.     It  would 
thus  preclude  the  opportunity  to  establish  a  use  there  that  better  relates  to  the 
existing  residential  and  industrial  uses  in  the  vicinity. 

The  Residence  Element:     San  Francisco  Comprehensive  Plan  (December  11,  1975, 
pp.   12-13)  shows  the  general  project  area  with  scattered  low  and  medium  density 
housing  existing  and  extensive  high  density  housing  planned.     It  does  not,  however, 
show  the  vicinity  as  one  recommended  for  intensification  of  residential  use.^ 

The  problem  of  residential  development  in  the  general  project  vicinity  was 
examined  in  the  environmental  impact  report  for  the  Bank  of  America  data  center. 
In  that  analysis,  private,  unsubsidized  development  of  residential  use,  even  in  a 

Ibid. ,  p.  15. 

^Department  of  City  Planning,  Environmental  Impact  Report  EE  74.128,  Bank  of 
America  Data  Center,  August  28,  1975,  Volume  1,  pp.  132-136. 


-  54  - 


mixed-use  context,  was  judged  to  be  economically  infeasible  for  the  area  because 
of  (1)  high  development  costs,  which  would  necessitate  high  rents,  and  (2)  lack 
of  amenities  in  the  neighborhood  which  would  draw  renters  willing  to  pay  the  high 
rents.     It  would  therefore  seem  unlikely  that  the  area  would  redevelop  into  pre- 
dominantly residential  use;  consequently,  the  impacts  associated  with  the  low  amenity 
value  of  a  parking  structure  would  be  limited  to  the  existing  residences, 

A  use  which  generates  less  traffic  might  be  more  compatible  with  the  indus- 
trial uses  in  the  area.     The  existing  industrial  uses,  however,  include  a  large 
proportion  of  automobile  servicing  establishments.     They  may  therefore  benefit 
from  the  daily  influx  of  cars  to  the  area,  as  the  car  owners  may  find  these  es- 
tablishments convenient  ones  at  which  to  service  their  cars. 

Construction  of  the  parking  structure  or  any  substantial  new  structure  now 
would  increase  the  assessed  valuation  on,  and  therefore  the  property  tax  revenue 
derived  from,  the  parcel. 


-  55  - 


IX.     IRREVERSIBLE  ENVIRONMENTAL  CHANGES  WHICH  WOULD 

RESULT  FROM  THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  THE  PROPOSED  PROJECT 


STRUCTURAL  DEMOLITION 

The  existing  structures  on  the  site,  the  Cardoza  Bookbinding  building  and 
Carnation  Company  building,  would  be  demolished  to  make  way  for  the  proposed 
structure. 

IMPACT  ON  NON-RENEWABLE  RESOURCES 

The  proposed  project  anticipates  the  use  of  standard  construction  materials 
which  would  not  be  salvageable  in  the  short  run.     Their  use  in  the  proposed  pro- 
ject would  preclude  their  use  for  any  other  purposes  for  the  life  of  the  project. 
In  the  long  term,  glass  and  steel  from  the  parking  structure  might  be  salvaged 
and  reused. 

The  proposed  project  is  committed  to  the  use  of  limited  energy  resources. 
Fossil  fuels  (gasoline  and  diesel  oil),  which  are  produced  from  non-renewable 
resources,  would  be  used  during  the  demolition  and  construction  period.  Electric- 
ity (which  is  largely  produced  from  non-renewable  resources)  would  be  consumed 
during  the  construction  and  operation  of  the  building.     Energy  would  also  be 
consumed  in  the  production  of  materials  that  would  be  used  in  constructing  the 
building.     The  commitment  of  these  resources  would  be  required  regardless  of  the 
location  of  the  project. 


-  56  - 


X,     THE  GROWTH-INDUCING  IMPACTS  OF  THE  PROPOSED  ACTION 


SHORT-  AND  LONG-TERM  EFFECTS  ON 

THE  CITY'S  POPULATION  AND  EMPLOYMENT 

The  project  is  expected  to  employ  nine  people  full-time  at  the  parking 
structure.    Because  public  transportation  is  unable  to  meet  the  needs  and  de- 
mands of  midnight  and  swing  shift  data  center  employees,  the  provision  of  park- 
ing is  considered  by  the  Bank  of  America  to  be  necessary  if  the  bank  is  to 
attract  and  retain  the  employees  it  needs  to  keep  the  data  center  functioning. 

Long-term  population  effects  are  difficult  to  assess.     The  project  itself 
is  one  component  of  a  larger  program  and,  as  such,  one  effect  would  be  the  sup- 
port of  the  data  center.     The  provision  of  parking  in  the  amount  planned  seems 
to  encourage  San  Francisco  residency  among  daytime  employees  because  they  would 
have  to  rely  heavily  on  public  transportation;  public  transit  is  most  reliable 
within  the  city.     The  project  would,  however,  allow  the  maintenance  of  a  non-San 
Francisco  resident  labor  force  by  supplying  parking  space  for  midnight  and  swing 
shift  employees  who  drive  into  the  city  from  other  places, 

LIKELY  IMPACT  UPON  THE  DEVELOPMENT  OF  OTHER  FACILITIES 

Because  the  project  would  be  open  only  to  bank  employees  who  would  be  work- 
ing several  blocks  away  from  the  parking  garage,  the  project  is  not  expected  to 
affect  most  of  the  existing  businesses  in  the  vicinity.     Some  additional  com- 
mercial trade  would  probably  result  from  individuals  walking  to  and  from  the 
data  center.    More  commercial  activities  such  as  automobile  service  dealers,  cof- 
fee shops  and  other  food  services  and  pharmacies  might  enter  the  area. 


-  57  - 


XI.     ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACT  REPORT  AUTHORS 
AND  CONSULTANTS 


San  Francisco  City  Planning  Department 
100  Larkin  Street 
San  Francisco,  California  94102 
415-558-3056 

Environmental  Review  Officer:    Dr.  Selina  Bendix 
Coordinator:     Ralph  Gigliello 
Transportation  Specialist:     Ed  Green 

Principal  Author  of  Preliminary  Draft 

Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates 
Economic  and  Sociological  Consultants 
564  Howard  Street 
San  Francisco,  California  94105 
415-433-7598 
Coordinator:     Roberta  Mundie 


Consultants 

Skidmore,  Owings  &  Merrill 
Project  Architects 
One  Maritime  Plaza,  Suite  1800 
San  Francisco,  California  94111 
415-981-1555 
Coordinator:    Robert  Towle  (C  2541) 

Dames  &  Moore 
Geotechnical  Consultants 
500  Sansome  Street 
San  Francisco,  California  94104 
415-433-0700 
Coordinator:     Edward  E.  Rinne  (C  15953) 

Linscott,  Law  &  Greenspan 
Transportation  Consultants 
8405  Pershing  Drive,  Suite  203 
Playa  Del  Rey,  California  90291 
213-821-3457 
Coordinator:     Jack  Greenspan 

Bentley  Engineers  Inc.-W.  A.  Di  Giacomo  Associates,  Inc. 
Mechanical  and  Electrical  Engineers 
149  New  Montgomery  Street 
San  Francisco,  California  94105 
415-495-7400 
Coordinator:     Edward  M.  Walker  (E5744) 


-  58  - 


Charles  M.  Salter,  PE 
Consultants  in  Acoustics 
350  Pacific  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  California  94111 
415-397-0442 
Coordinator:     Charles  M.  Salter  (ME  16460) 


Project  Developer 

Bank  of  America 
315  Montgomery  Street 
San  Francisco,  California  94120 
415-622-5238 
Coordinator:     H.  M.  Huckabay 


-  59  - 


AGENCY 


ORGANIZATIONS  AND  PERSONS  CONSULTED 
PERSON  AND  TITLE 


DATE 


Bay  Area  Air  Pollution  Con- 
trol District,  Planning  and 
Research  Section 

California  Public  Utilities 
Commission 

Continental  Services 
Company 

Dinwiddle  Construction 
Company 


Fort  Help 

Pacific  Gas  and  Electric 
Company 

Polish  Community  Center 

San  Francisco  Assessor's 
Office 

San  Francisco  Fire  Depart- 
ment, Division  of  Planning 
and  Research 

San  Francisco  Jitney 
Owners'  Association 

San  Francisco  Maritime 
Museum 

San  Francisco  Municipal 
Railway 


San  Francisco  Planning 
Department 


San  Francisco  Police  Depart- 
ment ,  Planning  and  Research 
Bureau 


Ralph  Mead,  Sr.  Planner, 
Technical  Services  Division 


Paul  Burket 


Ted  McClatchy, 
Property  Manager 

Curtis  Smith,  President 

Robert  Schaeffer,  Engineer 
Teri  Fowler,  Engineer 

Bill  Glover,  Staff  Member 

Bob  Podesta,  Engineer 


D,  W.  Suchecki, 
Executive  Director 

James  Walsh, 
Principal  Appraiser 

Robert  E.  Rose,  Chief 


Mel  De  Martini,  President 


Harlan  Soeten,  Curator 


Frank  Brewer,  Transporta- 
tion Superintendent 
Maurice  Ittig,  Traffic 
Superintendent 

Lou  Blazej ,  Ping.  Coord, 
Carl  Ness,  Temp.  Planner 
Ed  Michael,  Secretary  to 
the  Landmarks  Commission 
Dick  Swanson,  Economic  De- 
velopment Specialist 

Robert  Bernardini, 
Officer 


December  5,  1975  (verbal) 
December  9,  1975  (verbal) 


January,  1976  (verbal) 


January  25,  1977  (verbal) 


April  29,  1976  (written) 
December  10,   1976  (written) 
January  24,  1977  (verbal) 
March  15,     1977  (written) 

December  29,  1975  (verbal) 

May  20,  1976  (verbal) 
June  24,  1976  (verbal) 

December  29,  1975  (verbal) 


December  8,  1975  (verbal) 


January  7,  1976  (written) 


December  12,  1975  (verbal) 


December  10,  1975  (verbal) 


March  19,  1976  (verbal) 
January  18,   1977  (verbal) 


December  9,  1975  (verbal) 
December  10,  1975  (verbal) 
January  24,  1977  (verbal) 

March  17,  1977  (verbal) 


December  5,  1975  (written) 
December  12,  1975  (verbal) 
January  6,  1976  (written) 


-  60  - 


AGENCY 


PERSON  AND  TITLE 


DATE 


M.  Francies,  Engineering 
Associate 

Scott  Schoaf,  Traffic  Engr. 
Ernest  Gonzales,  Trfc,  Engr. 
Gilbert  Sams,  Traffic  Engr, 
William  Marconi,  Sr.  Traffic 
Engineer 


December  8,  1975  (written) 
December  29,  1975  (written) 
January  18,  1977  (verbal) 
January  20,  1977  (verbal) 
January  18,  1977  (verbal) 
January  20,  1977  (verbal) 
December  3,  1976  (written) 
March  15,  1977  (verbal) 


San  Francisco  Department  of 
Public  Works,  Division  of 
Sanitary  Engineering; 
Op.cit.,  Division  of  Traffic 
Engineering 


San  Francisco  Water  Depart 
ment.  City  Distribution 
Division 

Stecher-Traung-Schmidt 
Corporation 


John  Kenck,  Manager 

Cy  Wentworth,  Construction 

Inspector 


December  8,  1975  (written) 
December  17,  1975  (written) 
May  21,  1976  (verbal) 


Bill  Fahey,  Corporate  Secty.  March  12,  1976  (verbal) 
Dick  O'Connor,  Production       December  9,  1976  (verbal) 
Manager 


-  61  - 


AREA  BUSINESSES  INTERVIEWED 
DECEMBER,  1975 


OF  FIRiM     (TYPE  OF  BUSINESS) 

Bay  Area  Surgical  Company 

Frank  Wilbur  Co.    (furniture  sales) 

Golden  Value  Glove  Company 

KNL  Automotive  Equipment 

Collator  Products  Company 

Byron  Hoyt  Sheet  Music  Company 

St.  Joseph's  Church 

St.  Joseph's  School 

A-1  Auto  Body  Shop 

Warner  Automotive  Products 

Don's  Muffler  &  Brake  Service 

Lee  Swan  &  Company   (raw  cotton  disbr) 

Ken's  Wheel  Service 

ASP  Carburetor  Company 

Frank  Stauber  Co.    (music  company) 

Hinshaw  Supply  Co.    (whsle. ref rig. eq. ) 

Larry's  Restaurant 

Polish  Community  Center  (refugee 

service) 
Fort  Help  (counselling  center) 
FM  Productions 

Kimmerle  Brothers   (auto  servicing) 
La  Perla  Delicatessen  &  Jay's 

Restaurant 
Mercedes  Benz  Body  Shop 
It's  It  (ice  cream  company) 
Howard  C.  Green  Company  (supplier) 
Cine  Manifest   (film  production) 
Star  Sheetmetal 

Environmental  Impact  Planning  Corp. 

H.  G.  Scovern  &  Co.    (recording  syst) 

Bartfeld  Sales   (gen. merchandise) 

California  Collection  Agency 

Purves  Wholesale  Plumbing 

Arc  Welding 

Quality  Brake  Supply 

OEN  Automatic  Transmissions 

Anresco  Micro  Tracers 

Cal  Body  Steel  Former 

Sam  Siracusa  Furniture  Finishing 

Brinks,  Inc.    (armored  car  service) 

National  Auto  Glass  Company 

Brayer  Electric  Company 

Bob's  Phillips  56  Service 

Harm ' s  Bag  Company 

J  &  J  Plating 

Buzz ' s  (restaurant) 


INTERVIilWEE  &  TITLE 


George  Lorinzini,  Manager 

Leif  Johnson,  Vice  President 

Andrew  Knowlen,  Manager 

Lee  Roy  Larson,  Manager 

Lyndon  B.  Stetz,  President 

Donald  Schmeer,  Manager 

Fr.  McGee,  Pastor 

Sister  Anne  Gilchrist,  Principal 

Lou  King,  Owner 

Walter  Hesse ,  Employee 

Don  Mar lock.  Owner 

Bill  Swan,  Vice  President 

Ken  Sharp,  Owner 

Richard  Lauddy,  Partner 

Bob  Kern,  Partner 

George  Wallace,  Manager 

Dorothy  Yung,  Owner's  Daughter 

P.  W.  Suchecki,  Exec.  Director 

Bill  Glover,  Staff  Member 
Regina  Cartwright,  Receptionist 
Daniel  Kimmerle,  Owner 
Jay  Ramirez,  Owner 

Sten  Zhorn,  Service  Manager 

Chuck  Shamiesh,  Plant  Manager 

Bruce  Green,  President 

Steve  Way,  Partner 

Fred  Baciocco,  President 

Helen  Katz,  Bookkeeper 

Linda  Goldberg,  Office  Manager 

Joe  Bartfeld,  Owner 

Mrs.  Wilson,  Office  Manager 

Gene  Schmierer,  Asst.  Manager 

Art  LQwry,  Owner 

Dave  McGee,  Owner 

Jack  Litke,  Owner 

Michael  Schmultzler,  Chemist 

Bruce  Rosemond,  Partner 

Sam  Siracusa,  Owner 

Umberto  Mancini,  Asst.  Manager 

Lill  Marks,  Secretary 

Ted  Brayer,  Owner 

Bob  Bragg,  Owner 

Virginia  Alvarado,  Owner's  Wife 

Frank  Lukich,  Partner 

Eddie  &  Josephine  Sojat,  Owners 


ADDRESS 


122  Tenth  Street 
130  Tenth  Street 
130  Tenth  Street 
130  Tenth  Street 
140  Tenth  Street 
190  Tenth  Street 
220  Tenth  Street 
220  Tenth  Street 
320  Tenth  Street 
330  Tenth  Street 
340  Tenth  Street 

350  Tenth  Street 
358  Tenth  Street 
366  Tenth  Street 

380  Tenth  Street 
145  Eleventh  Street 
160  Eleventh  Street 
165  Eleventh  Street 

169  Eleventh  Street 
201  Eleventh  Street 
226  Eleventh  Street 
229  Eleventh  Street 

251  Eleventh  Street 
270  Eleventh  Street 
276  Eleventh  Street 
308  Eleventh  Street 
316  Eleventh  Street 
319  Eleventh  Street 
319  Eleventh  Street 
333  Eleventh  Street 
340  Eleventh  Street 

351  Eleventh  Street 
365  Eleventh  Street 

368  Eleventh  Street 

369  Eleventh  Street 

381  Eleventh  Street 
180  Twelfth  Street 
224  Twelfth  Street 
240  Twelfth  Street 
281  Twelfth  Street 
286  Twelfth  Street 
312  Twelfth  Street 
356  Twelfth  Street 

370  Twelfth  Street 
398  Twelfth  Street 


-  62  - 


NAME  OF  FIRM     (TYPE  OF  BUSINESS). 


INTERVIEWEE  S  TITLE 


ADDRESS 


•^^West  Coast  Contractor  Services 
jijFederated  Food  Machinery 
■Bender  Roofing,  Inc. 

^Otagiri  Mercantile  Co., Inc.  (importer) 

,Arguello  Body  Shop 
■lOB  Masco  Drapery  Hardware 
IBwaterfront  Iron  Works 

ij.  W.  Ryssm  Co.  (importers) 
I^Noel  Associates   (advertising  spec.) 
■Charles'  Auto  Repairs 

pRomain  Pliarabing 
^Alcar  Company  (auto  supply) 
Hjvartan's  Forge 

Martinelli  Construction  Company 
California  Electric  Supply  Company 
Eveready  Electric 
Conlan  Creative  Lithographers 
Lyon  Moving  &  Storage 
Wu  Texaco 

San  Francisco  Public  Schools, 

Audio  Visual  Services 
Construction  Services  Corporation 
Malloy ' s  Tavern 

Electrical  Appliance  Service  Co. 
Professional  Electric  X-Ray 
Pioneer  Machinery  Co.    (tool  &  die) 
West  Bay  Glass  Center 
Dave  Elliot  Tire  Company 
General  Conference  of  Seventh  Day 

Adventists 
Royal  Motors   (Volvo  service) 
Ted's  Market 
Gigi  #2  (restaurant) 
Bay  Area  Reporter 
Host  International  Marine  Div. 
Malco  Modes  (printer) 
Sue  J.,  Inc.    (women's  apparel  mfg) 
Guarantee  Automotive  Repair 
Western  Ceramic  Supply 
Foremost-McKesson   (district  office 

for  home  &  wholesale  sales) 
Midwest  Potters 
San  Francisco  Gear  Company 
Tommy's  Coffee  Shop 
Paige  Glass  Company 
Metro  Park  Tire  Center 


Barbara  Huff,  Office  Manager 

Ed  Krause,  Employee 

J.  Panetlo,  Estimator 

Roxanne  Nomura,  Receptionist 

Hernaldo  Arguello,  Partner 

Mr.  Loskin,  Branch  Manager 

Mrs.  J.  Gordon,  Secretary 

J.  W.  Ryssin,  Owner 

Rick  Wolfman,  Office  Manager 

Charles   (no  last  name  given) , Owner 

Renee  Wynn,  Secretary 

Joe  Norton,  Manager 

Vera  Hanedianian,  Owner's  Wife 

Mrs.  Schmidt,  Office  Manager 

Bob  Rice,  Sales  Manager 

Mr.  W.  Sontag,  Bookkeeper 

Ann  Gray,  Secretary 

Richard  Reeves ,  District  Manager 

John  Wu,  Owner 

Hal  Solin,  Supervisor 

VJilliam  Stobien,  Office  Manager 

Ed  Capella,  Owner 

Jesse  Tribulato,  V.  President 

Shirley  Smith,  Office  Manager 

Bill  Weinreich,  Service  Manager 

B.  Leinpert,  Employee 

Cliff  Ludwick,  Owner 

O.  Kenneth  Scheller,  Western  Mgr. 

Bob  Donahue,  Service  Manager 
Dave  Zouzounis,  Owner's  Son 
Betty  Johnson,  Manager 
Raf  Gufstafson,  Accountant 
Jack  Wallen,  Manager 
Jim  Baba,  Owner 

Priscilla  Grienan,  Office  Manager 
Lenny  Lippert,  Owner 
Jean  Rose,  Clerk 

Evelyn  Rushing,  Personnel  Manager 

Ted  Lobinger,  Partner 
Rob  Bruening,  Owner 
Victor  Casco,  Owner 
Ken  Paige,  Owner 
H.  J.  Edwards,  Director 


28  Thirteenth  Street 
70  Thirteenth  Street 
22  Bernice 
1400  Folsom  Street 
1415  Folsom  Street 
1435  Folsom  Street 
1465  Folsom  Street 
1489  Folsom  Street 

1439  Folsom  Street 
1515  Folsom  Street 

1525  Folsom  Street 

1526  Folsom  Street 
1539  Folsom  Street 
1580  Folsom  Street 
1585  Folsom  Street 
1624  Folsom  Street 
1655  Folsom  Street 
1690  Folsom  Street 
Harrison  &  10th  Sts. 

1440  Harrison  Street 


1610 

Harrison  Street 

1599 

Howard 

Street 

1434 

Howard 

Street 

1458 

Howard 

Street 

1480 

Howard 

Street 

1488 

Howard 

Street 

1500 

Howard 

Street 

1501 

Howard 

Street 

1525 

Howard 

Street 

1530 

Howard 

Street 

1532 

Howard 

Street 

1550 

Howard 

Street 

1559 

Howard 

Street 

1578 

Howard 

Street 

1596 

Howard 

Street 

1598 

Howard 

Street 

1601 

Howard 

Street 

1675 

Howard 

Street 

138  Kissling  Street 
81  Lafayette  Street 
Mission  Street 
1331  Mission  Street 
1401  Mission  Street 


-  63  - 


NAME  OF  FIRI-I     (TYPE  OF  BUSINESS) 


INTERVIEWEE  S  TITLE 


ADDRESS 


California  Inspection  Rating  Bureau 
State  of  California  Employment 

Development  Department 
Allied  Maintenance  Service  Corp. 
Bank  of  America,  Data  Processing 

and  Adjustments 
Goodyear  Tire  Company 
General  Tire  Company 
Coliseum  II  (restaurant) 
Bearing  Engineering  Company 
McCord's  Daily  Notification  Sheet 
Busch  Manufacturing  Co.    (garment  mfg) 
B&B  Appliance  Service 
V-C  Egg  Company 
Little  People  Kites 
The  Recorder  Printing  &  Publishing 

Company 

Capitol  Tire  Sales/Warehousing 

Le  Du  &  Ahonen,  Inc.    (auto  reconstr) 

Mergenthaler  Linotype 

Midas  Muffler  Company 


Scott  Holdaway,  Office  Manager 
Mrs.  Finis,  Acting  Manager 

P.  W,  Dirks,  Controller 

Karen  Sisley,  Operations  Asst. 

Clyde  Wilhelm,  Manager 
Robert  Lane,  Manager 
John  Gianaris,  Partner 
Ron  Ward,  Manager 
Mr.  Komli,  President 
Roger  Busch,  Partner 
Connie  Perry,  Secretary 
Vic  Cortesi,  Owner 
Richard  Horst,  Owner 
Shirley  Lovell,  Secretary  to 
President 

Terry  Weems ,  Salesman 
Donald  Danske,  Shop  Foreman 
Dal  Porto,  Office  Manager 
David  Gross,  Manager 


1435  Mission  Street 
1449  Mission  Street 

1453  Mission  Street 
1453  Mission  Street 

1475  Mission  Street 
1517  Mission  Street 
1525  Mission  Street 
1547  Mission  Street 
1581  Mission  Street 
935  Natoma  Street 
959  Natoma  Street 
964  Natoma  Street 
1050  Natoma  Street 
99  S.  Van  Ness  Ave. 

101  S.  Van  Ness  Ave. 

131  S.  Van  Ness  Ave. 

155  S.  Van  Ness  Ave. 

165  S.  Van  Ness  Ave. 


-  64  - 


XII.     BIBLIOGRAPHY:     MAIN  TEXT 


Blume,  John  A.,  San  Francisco  Seismic  Safety  Investigation,  San  Francisco:  1974 

Dames  and  Moore,  "Report;  Foundation  Investigation;  Proposed  Parking  Garage; 
San  Francisco,  California;  Bank  of  America."    Letter  to  Robert  Towle,  project 
architect  at  Skldmore,  Owlngs  and  Merrill:    March  4,  1976. 

Little,  Arthur  D,,  Inc.,  Studies  on  the  San  Francisco  Economic  Environment, 
Technical  Paper  No.  5,  San  Francisco  Community  Renewal  Program:  1965. 

City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Department  of  City  Planning,  Community  Safety 
Element:     San  Francisco  Comprehensive  Plan:     September  12,  1974. 

Ibid.,  Environmental  Protection  Element:     September  19,  1974. 

Ibid.,  Residence  Element:     April  18,  1971. 

Ibid.,  Transportation  Element:     April  27,  1972. 

City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Department  of  City  Planning,  Environmental 
Impact  Report  EE  74.128,  Bank  of  America  Data  Center:  1975. 

City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Department  of  City  Planning,  San  Francisco 
Downtown  Zoning  Study:  1966. 

City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Department  of  Public  Works  and  Department  of 
City  Planning,  Parking  in  San  Francisco;  1975. 

U.S.  Department  of  Commerce,  Bureau  of  the  Census,  1970  Census  of  Housing, 
Block  Statistics. 

U.S.  Department  of  the  Interior,  Geological     Survey,  Map  of  San  Francisco  North 
Quadrangle,  California,  7.5  minute  series:  1950. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY:     APPENDIX  A 

Bay  Area  Air  Pollution  Control  District;  Guidelines  for  Air  Quality  Impact  Analysis 
of  Projects;  San  Francisco,  California;  June  1975. 

CALTRANS,  District  04;  San  Francisco,  California.     9th  Progress  Report  on  Trip 
End  Generation  Research  Counts;  1974. 

City  and  County  of  San  Francisco;  Downtown  Parking  and  Traffic  Survey;  1970. 

City  and  County  of  San  Francisco;  Transportation  Element  of  the  San  Francisco 
Comprehensive  Plan;  1972. 

City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Department  of  City  Planning;  Final  Environmental 
Impact  Report  EE  74.128,  Bank  of  America  Data  Center,  Market-Tenth-Mission- 
Eleventh  Streets;  August  28,  1975, 

Fruin,  John;  Metropolitan  Association  of  Urban  Designers  and  Environmental 
Planners,  Inc.;  Pedestrian  Planning  and  Design;  New  York,  New  York,  1971. 


-  65  - 


Highway  and  Research  Board,  Highway  Capacity  Manual,  Special  Report  87;  1965. 

BIBLIOGRAPHY:    APPENDIX  B 

Bay  Area  Air  Pollution  Control  District,  Guidelines  for  Air  Quality  Impact  Analysis 
of  Projects;  June  1975, 

BIBLIOGRAPHY:     APPENDIX  C 

Beranek,  L.  L.,  Acoustics ,  McGraw-Hill,  New  York  (1954), 

Botsford,  J.  H,,  "Using  Sound  Levels  to  Gauge  Human  Response  to  Noise," 
Sound  Vib,,  3(10):16-28  (1969). 

Callaway,  W.  J.,  W.  E,  Clark,  and  J,  S.  Kerrick,  "Urban  Highway  Noise: 
Measurement,  Simulation,  and  Mixed  Reactions,"  National  Cooperative 
Highway  Research  Program,  Report  78  (1969). 

Gordon,  C.  G.,  W,  J,  Callaway,  B.  A,  Kugler,  and  D,  L.  Nelson,  "Highway  Noise — 
A  Design  Guide  for  Highway  Engineers,"  National  Cooperative  Highway  Research 
Program,  Report  117  (1971). 

Griffiths,  I,  D.,  and  F.  J.  Langon,  "Subjective  Response  to  Road  Traffic 
Noise,"  J.  Sound  Vib,,  8(l):16-32  (1968), 

Hillquist,  R,  K, ,  "Objective  and  Subjective  Measurement  to  Truck  Noise," 
Sound  Vib,,  1(4):8-13  (1967), 

Kittelson,  K,  E.,  and  C,  Poulsen,  "Statistical  Analysis  of  Sound  Levels," 
Bruel  &  Kjaer  Technical  Review  #1:3-23  (1964), 

Kugler,  B,  A,,  and  A,  G.  Piersol,  "Highway  Noise:     A  Field  Evaluation  of 
Traffic  Noise  Reduction  Measures,"  National  Cooperative  Highway  Research 
Program,  Report  144  (1973), 

Olson,  N,,  "Statistical  Study  of  Traffic  Noise,"  Report  #APS476,  N.R.C. 
11270,  National  Research  Council  of  Canada,  Ottaway  (1970), 

Parkin,  P.  H,,  "On  the  Accuracy  of  Simple  Weighting  Networks  for  Loudness 
Estimates  of  Some  Urban  Noises."  J,  Sound  Vib,,  2(l):86-88  (1964). 

City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Noise  Abatement  and  Control  Ordinance 
No,  274-72,  San  Francisco  Municipal  Code  Section  1,  Part  II,  Chapter 
VIII,  Article  29  (1972), 

Scholes,  W.  E,,  "Traffic  Noise  Criteria,"  Appl.  Acoust,,  3(1):1-21  (1970). 

Stevens,  K.  N,,  W.  A,  Rosenblith,  and  R,  H,  Bolt,  "A  Community's  Reaction 
to  Noise:     Can  It  Be  Forecast?"    Noise  Control,  1:63  (January  1955), 


-  66  - 


XIII.     DISTRIBUTION  LIST 


A.     REGIONAL  AGENCIES 

Association  of  Bay  Area  Governments 

Attn:  Ms.  Martha  Strock 

Hotel  Claremont 

Berkeley,  California  94705 

Bay  Area  Air  Pollution  Control  District 

939  Ellis  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94109 

Metropolitan  Transportation  Commission 

Hotel  Claremont 

Berkeley,  California  94705 

Bay  Area  Rapid  Transit  District 
800  Madison  Street 
Oakland,  California  94607 

Golden  Gate  Bridge  Highway  and  Transportation  District 
P.  0.  Box  9000,  Presidio  Station 
San  Francisco,  California  94129 


B.     LOCAL  AGENCIES 

Public  Utilities  Commission 

James  J,  Finn,  Director  of  Transportation 

949  Presidio  Avenue 

San  Francisco,  California  94115 

Mr.  Roger  Boas 

Chief  Administrative  Officer 
289  City  Hall 

San  Francisco,  California  94102 

San  Francisco  Fire  Department 

Rene  Gautier,  Chief 

260  Golden  Gate  Avenue 

San  Francisco,  California  94102 

San  Francisco  Police  Department 

Director  of  Traffic 

850  Bryant  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94103 


Human  Rights  Commission 
1095  Market  Street,  Room  501 
San  Francisco,  California  94103 


Commission  for  Utility  Liaison  for 

Construction  and  Other  Projects  (CULCOP) 

%  GES  -  Utility  Liaison 

City  Hall  -  Room  363 

San  Francisco,  California  94102 

Attention:     Herman  Beneke 


C.     GROUPS  AND  INDIVIDUALS 

San  Francisco  Planning  and  Urban  Renewal  Association 
John  H,  Jacobs,  Executive  Director 
126  Post  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94108 


-  67  - 


C.     GROUPS  AND  INDIVIDUALS,  continued 


Chamber  of  Commerce 

400  Montgomery  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94104 

Women's  Chamber  of  Commerce 
681  Market  Street,  Room  922 
San  Francisco,  California  94105 

San  Francisco  Tomorrow 
9  First  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94105 
Attention:  Ms.  Sue  Hestor 

San  Francisco  Beautiful 

840  Urbano  Drive 

San  Francisco,  California  9412  7 

Attention:     Henry  Heyl 

Northern  California  Committee  for 
Environmental  Information 
P.  0.  Box  761 

Berkeley,  California  94701 
Attention:     Donald  Dahlsten 

Women  in  Construction 

%  Prim  Investments 

650  California  Street,  Suite  2900 

San  Francisco,  California  94108 

Bay  Area  Women's  Coalition 

944  Market  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94102 

Mr.  Mitch  Steinberg 

528  Valencia  Street,  #415 

San  Francisco,  California  94110 

Mission  Planning  Council 

2501  Bryant  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94110 


Mr.  Walter  Knox 

320  Clementina  Street  #804 

San  Francisco,  California  94103 

Ms.   Isabel  Ugat 

567  Minna  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94103 


Junior  Chamber  of  Commerce 

24  California  Street,  Room  600 

San  Francisco,  California  94104 

Ecology  Center  of  San  Francisco 

Attention:    Mr.  Mark  Kasky 

13  Columbus  Avenue 

San  Francisco,  California  94111 

Friends  of  the  Earth 

529  Commercial  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94111 

Attention:     Connie  Parrish 

Sierra  Club 

San  Francisco  Bay  Chapter 
5608  College  Avenue 
Oakland,  California  94618 

San  Francisco  Maritime  Museum 
Foot  of  Polk  Street 
San  Francisco,  California  94109 
Attention:  Harlan  Soeten,  Curator 


Downtown  Association 

582  Market  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94104 


Junior  World  Trade  Association 

465  California  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94104 

Mr.  Dennis  Hong,  AIP 

1230  Grant  Avenue,  #299 

San  Francisco,  California  94133 

Mr.  Eugene  Coleman 

Canon  Kip  Commiinity  House 

705  Natoma  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94103 

Mr.  Leland  S.  Meyerzove 

759-A  Minna  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94103 

Mr.  Tony  A.  Grefilo 
51  Russ  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94103 


-  68  - 


D.  MEDIA 


San  Francisco  Chronicle 

Dale  Champion 

925  Mission  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94103 

San  Francisco  Examiner 

Don  Canter 

110  Fifth  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94103 

San  Francisco  Progress 

Dan  Borsuk 

851  Howard  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94103 


San  Francisco  Bay  Guardian 

1070  Bryant  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94103 


The  Sun  Reporter 
1366  Turk  Street 
San  Francisco,  California  94115 


E.  LIBRARIES 

San  Francisco  Public  Library  (3  copies) 
Documents  Department 
Civic  Center 

San  Francisco,  California  94102 

Environmental  Protection  Agency  Library 

Jean  Circiello 

100  California  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94111 

Social  Science,  Business  and  Ethnic 

Studies  Library 
San  Francisco  State  University 
1600  Holloway  Avenue 
San  Francisco,  California  94132 
Attention:    Ms,  Mimi  Sayer 

Hastings  College  of  the  Law  Library 

198  McAllister  Street 

San  Francisco,  California  94102 

Government  Documents  Section 
Stanford  University  Library 
Stanford,  California  93063 


-  69  - 


XIV.     COMMENTS  AND  RESPONSES 


COMMENT  //I;     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Sue  Bierman,  San  Francisco  Planning  Commissioner:     "I  would  like  to  ask  one 
question  about  the  community  notification  of  this.     Has  any  work  been  done 
with  that  neighborhood,  with  the  residents?  .   .   .  Did  anybody  ever  go  to  them 
.   .  .  no  handing  out  of  anything?" 

RESPONSE  #1;     The  neighborhood  liaison  planner  was  notified  of  the  project  and 
posters  were  put  up  on  Kissling  Street.     The  analysis  of  the  report  includes 
consideration  of  where  residential  units  are  located  in  the  neighborhood  and 
the  traffic  impacts  did  not  appear  to  be  substantial  in  the  areas  that  do  have 
substantial  residential  development.     Community  leaders  in  the  area  have  been 
sent  copies  of  the  report  and  their  comments  requested  May  9,   1977,  but  no 
comments  have  been  received. 

COMMENT  #2;     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Sue  Hestor,  Chairperson  of  the  Zoning  and  Housing  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow  (SFT) :     "Is  it  this  city's  policy  to  just  allow  850-car  garages  two 
blocks  from  a  BART  station  without  any  review  ...?...  I  don't  know  what  .   .  . 
discretionary  review  is  for  if  you  don't  use  discretionary  review  for  an 
850-car  garage." 

RESPONSE  #2;     No  response  is  required  because  this  comment  does  not  deal  with 
the  report  but  rather  requests  the  Planning  Commission  to  exercise  their  power 
of  discretionary  review  over  this  proposed  project. 

COMMENT  #3;     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Sue  Hestor,  Chairperson  of  the  Zoning  and  Housing  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow  (SFT):     "...  On  page  one  and  again  on  page  13  it  says  that  this  is 
just  the  first  garage  they're  planning  ...  If  there  is  going  to  be  a  cumulative 
impact  of  a  project  that  has  three  or  four  phases,  we're  suppose  to  have  an 
EIR  on  the  whole  project  ...  In  the  EIR  I  think  the  total  that  they  finally 
project  they're  going  to  have  to  deal  with  is  around  2,000  cars." 


Text  of  the  memorandum  reads  as  follows: 

"The  enclosed  Draft  Environmental  Impact  Report  has  been  sent  to  you  as  a 
person  concerned  with  development  proposals  south  of  Market  Street.     A  pre- 
liminary hearing  on  this  matter  was  held  on  April  28,  a  further  hearing  has 
been  scheduled  for  May  26,  1977. 

Please  transmit  your  comments  or  address  your  questions  to  me   (Ralph  Gigliello, 
environmental  review  coordinator)  at  the  Department  of  City  Planning,  ICQ  Larkin 
Street,  San  Francisco  94102   (phone  558-3056) .     Thank  you  for  your  consideration 
of  this  matter." 

Memorandum  was  sent  to:     Mr.  Eugene  Coleman,  Canon  Kip  Community  House,  705 
Natoma  Street,  San  Francisco,  CA  94103;  Mr.  Walter  Knox,   320  Clementina  Street, 
#804,  San  Francisco,  CA  94103;  Mr.  Leland  S.  Meyerzove,  759-A  Minna  Street,  San 
Francisco,  CA  94103;  Ms.  Isabel  Ugat,  667  Minna  Street,  San  Francisco,  CA  94103; 
Mr.  Tony  A.  Grafilo,  51  Russ  Street,  San  Francisco,  CA  94103. 


-  69A  - 


RESPONSE  #3:       The  cumulative  impact  of  the  provision  of  parking  spaces  for  data 
center  employees  was  identified  in  the  Bank  of  America  Data  Center  Final  EIR 
(EE  74.128,  August  28,  1975),  which  states  on  page  4,  "Included  as  an  element 
of  the  Phase  I  development  is  an  employee  parking  facility  at  another  site." 
And  page  B-41  states,   "A  1,400-space  satellite  parking  facility  ...  would  be 
located  in  the  industrial  area  to  the  southeast  of  the  data  center."     The  bank 
since  decided  to  meet  this  estimated  parking  need  in  phases  to  avoid  overbuilding 
if  the  percentage  of  employees  using  public  transit  should  increase  during  the 
data  center  development  which  will  not  be  completed  until  the  year  2000. 

COMMENT  #4:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Sue  Hestor,  Chairperson  of  the  Zoning  and  Housing  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow  (SET) :     "Everyone  who  reads  this  EIR  knows  that  the  project  is  not  a 
garage  .   .   .  What  you  should  care  about  is  transit  access  to  Market  Street  where 
the  bank  facility  is,  not  transit  access  to  Twelfth  and  Kissling  ...  there  is 
not  one  word  that  BART  stops  right  in  front  of  the  data  processing  center  .   ,  ." 

RESPONSE  #4:     Transit  access  to  the  data  center  site  was  addressed  in  the  EIR 
on  that  facility  (EE  74.128)  on  pages  B-5  through  B-10.     "All  five  of  the  City's 
streetcar  lines  and  seven  coach  lines  (Lines  6,  7,  8,  26,  66,  71  and  72)  travel 
past  the  site  on  Market  Street.     There  are  also  five  coach  and/or  trolley  lines 
on  Mission  Street  (Lines  9,   11,   12,   14,  and  26)"  (page  B-5).       "Service  from 
the  East  Bay  area  via  buses  of  the  Alameda-Contra  Costa  Transit  District  (AC 
Transit)  is  linked  to  the  site  at  the  Transbay  Terminal,  which  also  serves 
the  streetcars  that  operate  on  Market  Street"  (page  B-7).     "Golden  Gate  Transit 
District  .   .   .  Civic  Center  stop  is  some  five  blocks  north  of  the  Data  Center 
site  and  can  be  reached  by  walking  or  via  a  transfer  from  the  Line  47  bus  which 
runs  along  Van  Ness  Avenue"  (page  B-7).     "Greyhound  provides  service  to  both  the 
East  Bay  and  the  Peninsula  .   .   .  The  Greyhound  terminal  is  located  three  blocks 
east  of  the  Data  Center  site  on  Seventh  Street  between  Market  and  Mission  Streets" 
(page  B-7,  B-9) .     "Commuter  trains  operated  by  the  Southern  Pacific  provide  service 
between  San  Francisco  and  the  Peninsula  cities  as  far  south  as  San  Jose  .   .  . 
The  depot  can  be  reached  via  the  Line  19  coach  which  operates  on  Eighth  and  Ninth 
Streets  "  (page  B-9) .     "Regional  rapid  transit  service  is  provided  by  the  Bay 
Area  Rapid  Transit  District  (BART)   .   .   .  via  the  BART  Civic  Center  station  which 
is  located  on  Market  Street  at  Eighth  Street"  (page  B-9).     The  purpose  of  the  dis- 
cussion of  existing  transit  lines  on  pages  76-80  in  the  draft  EIR  was  to  show 
the  location  and  level  of  operations  as  an  introduction  to  the  assessment  of 
the  potential  impact  of  project-generated  traffic  on  transit  operations. 

COMMENT  #5:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Sue  Hestor,   Chairperson  of  the  Zoning  and  Housing  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow  (SET) :     "There  is  not  one  word  in  this  EIR  on  energy  policy  .   .   .  why 
doesn't  the  EIR  say,   .   .   .  " (C)onstruction  of  this  garage  will  perpetuate  de- 
pendence on  the  automobile  .   .   ."  .   .   .1  understand  the  necessity  in  this 
specific  project,  we're  dealing  with  people  who  work  at  night.     Maybe  the  siting 
was  not  ideal,  but  that's  one  of  the  things  the  Planning  Department  should  be 
grappling  with.     Does  it  make  sense  to  have  projects  ...  in  the  middle  of  the 
city  that  are  24-hour  facilities  when  you  know  there  is  not  going  to  be  24-hour 
transit?" 


-  69B  - 


RESPONSE  #5;     The  Data  Center  EIR  (EE  74.128)  discussed  the  potential  employee 
use  of  autos  given  different  locations  of  the  data  center.     In  Table  VII-4 
(page  139),  which  is  reproduced  in  the  parking  structure  EIR  on  page  129,  it 
showed  that  about  91%  of  all  employees  working  in  Concord  drive  to  work,  91%  in 
Richmond,  90%  in  Fremont,  80%  in  Oakland  and  55%  in  San  Francisco.     Between  45% 
and  50%  of  existing  data  center  employees  drive  to  work  which  is  lower  than  the 
overall  San  Francisco  average.     The  bank  has  also  assumed  this  percentage  would 
continue  to  decline  given  the  location  of  the  data  center  to  approximately  32% 
in  1985  and  27%  in  2000  (EE  74.128,  page  B-33).     The  reason  this  percentage  is  so 
low  is  that  68%  of  all  employees  will  be  dayshift  workers  with  good  transit  access. 
The  percentage  driving  to  work  would  probably  have  been  greater  if  the  data 
center  had  been  located  elsewhere,  as  indicated  by  the  data  cited  above.  While 
24-hour  transit  service  is  not  currently  generally  available,  between  20%  and 
25%  of  swing  and  midnight  shift  employees  are  expected  to  use  transit  to  and 
from  the  data  center  location  and  this  location  will  give  other  employees  the 
ability  to  take  advantage  of  improved  night-time  service  when  and  if  it  becomes 
available. 

COMMENT  #6;    Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Sue  Hestor,   Chairperson  of  Zoning  and  Housing  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow  (SFT):     "(The  EIR)  is  missing  dealing  with  the  reality  that  that  is  a 
community  with  people  living  down  there  .   .   .  How  many  kids  are  on  those  blocks? 
What  is  the  main  impact  on  families  (?)  .   .   .  What's  going  to  be  the  impact  of  .   ,  , 
more  traffic  at  night?  ...  If  you  look  at  the  map  on  page  24  ...  it  shows 
housing  uses,  .   .  .  you  see  quite  a  bit  of  that,   .   .   .  especially  on  Howard 
Street.     And  you  go  right  across  the  page  to  page  25,  first  main  paragraph,  it 
says  the  three  major  types  of  activities  in  the  area  now  are  garment  manufacturing, 
printing  and  automotive  (servicing).     When  I  look  across  the  map  I  see  that  a 
major  activity  is  housing." 

RESPONSE  #6;     Page  27  of  the  draft  EIR  states,  "On  the  block  where  the  proposed 
structure  would  be  located  there  were  39  year-round  housing  units,  with  a  popu- 
lation of  106,  in  1970.     More  than  one-third  of  these  individuals  (34%)  were 
less  than  18  years  of  age,  while  11%  were  62  or  older.     In  1970,  there  were  1,051 
persons  living  within  a  two-block  radius  of  the  proposed  parking  site."  The 
attached  map  shows  the  number  of  residents  and  residents  under  the  age  of  18  from 
the  1970  census  by  block  in  the  project  site  area.     No  significant  changes  in 
population  in  the  area  have  occurred  since  1970  according  to  the  San  Francisco 
Department  of  City  Planning  Community  Liaison,  Glenda  Skiffer. 

From  Figure  21  on  page  24  it  may  be  observed  that  the  majority  of  the  residential 
parcels  in  the  area  are  oriented  to  the  alleys.     Project-generated  traffic  would 
use  the  arterials  in  the  area  to  gain  access  to  the  project  site  and  would  not 
tend  to  use  any  o£  the  alleys  other  than  Kissling  Street  according  to  the  project 
traffic  engineer.      The  highest  concentration  of  residents  is  also  in  the  three 
blocks  north  of  Howard  Street,  which  would  be  the  least  impacted  by  project- 
generated  traffic  which  would  be  using  the  freeway  to  the  south  of  the  area. 

^Verbal  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  Glenda  Skiffer, 
San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning  Community  Liaison,  May  13,  1977. 

See  Figures  10  and  11   (pp.   101  and  102)  concerning  distribution  of  project 
generated  traffic. 

Q 

See  Figure  II   (p.  N)  which  shows  the  location  of  housing  units  in  the  area  and 
Figures  10  and  11   (pp.   101  and  102)  showing  the  distribution  of  traffic. 

-  69C  - 


Figure  I 
Population  In  the  Project  Area 


Key: 

block  number 
x-y    X  is  the  total  population  of  the  block 

y  is  the  population  under  18  years  of  age 

Source:     U.S.  Census  of  Population,  Block  Statistics,  1970. 


-  69D  - 


COMMENT  #7;     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Sue  Hestor,  Chairperson  of  the  Zoning  and  Housing  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow  (SFT) :     "If  you  look  on  page  98  on  the  table  of  arrivals,   ...  it  shows 
600  cars  arriving  between  6AM  and  9AM  .   .   .  for  the  day  shift.     So  that  means 
of  the  1,800  cars  parking  there  ...  a  third  of  them  have  no  excuse  for  driving, 
unless  they  are  handicapped  or  they're  in  carpools  .   .   .  The  Bank  of  America  says 
that  their  policy  will  be  to  allocate  spaces  first  to  the  handicapped  and  second 
to  carpools  and  third  first-come-first-served.     I  would  like  to  know  if  there  are 
10  carpools  and  5  handicapped  people  and  585  first-come-first-served." 

RESPONSE  #7;     The  purpose  of  the  proposed  parking  structure  is  to  provide  spaces 
for  swing  and  midnight  shift  employees.     The  arrivals  and  departures  have  been 
estimated  based  on  the  numbers  of  employees  arriving  for  or  departing  from  shifts 
each  hour  for  the  swing  and  midnight  shifts  and  spaces  which  remained  available 
for  long  enough  to  accommodate  day  shift  workers  were  then  added  into  the  arrival 
and  departure  schedule.     There  is  no  specific  number  of  spaces  available  during 
the  day  shift  assigned  to  handicapped  or  carpools  as  it  is  not  known  either  how 
many  handicapped  there  will  be  among  the  1985  data  center  employees  or  how  many 
of  the  1985  employees  will  be  willing  to  form  carpools.     The  bank  is  committed  to 
giving  first  priority  to  these  two  types  of  users  before  assigning  spaces  to 
individual  employees. 

COMMENT  #8;     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Sue  Hestor,   Chairperson  of  the  Zoning  and  Housing  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow  (SFT):     "This  study  says  that  our  parking  policy  in  the  city,  a  policy 
#2,  is  to  encourage  peripheral  parking  ...  I  always  had  the  impression  that 
the  peripheral  parking  we  were  encouraging  as  city  policy  was  not  .   .   .  two 
blocks  south  of  Market,  but  .   .   .  closer  to  where  people  come  into  the  city." 

RESPONSE  #8;     The  draft  EIR  states  on  page  54,  "The  proposed  parking  structure 
represents  a  continuation  of  a  trend  which  finds  downtown  San  Francisco  being 
gradually  surrounded  by  a  'ring'  of  parking  garages  ...  in  line  with  .   .  . 
Policy  y/2  of  the  plan  for  downtown  parking  (which  states),   'Limit  the  location 
of  long-term  parking  facilities  to  areas  peripheral  to  the  downtown  commercial 
district. '" 

COMMENT  //9:  Verbal  statement  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Sue  Hestor,  Chairperson  of  the  Zoning  and  Housing  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow  (SFT):  "(T)he  staff  is  going  to  have  to  explain  to  me  this  diagram 
on  page  132  ...  I  don't  understand  that  'on-street'  at  all." 

RESPONSE  //9:     The  3:00  P.M.  to  11:00  P.M.  period  is  the  period  of  eight  consecu- 
tive hours  during  which  the  proposed  project  would  generate  the  greatest  number  of 
vehicle  arrivals  and  departures.     This    is  the  period  for  which  air  quality 
impacts  were  required  to  be  assessed.     However,  there  was  concern  that  the  overall 
volume  of  traffic  from  both  the  project  and  non-project  sources  might  be  greater 
during  another  period.     For  this  reason  the  10:00  A.M.  to  6:00  P.M.  period, 
which  represents  the  period  of  eight  consecutive  hours  when  non-project  generated 
traffic  is  greatest,  was  also  used  as  a  base  and  the  overall  air  quality  impacts 
assessed  for  that  period  as  well. 


-  69E  - 


COMMENT  #10;    Verbal  statement  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Sue  Hestor,  Chairperson  of  the  Zoning  and  Housing  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow  (SFT) :     "If  there  is  a  significant  traffic  volume  ,  .   .  from  10:30  to 
12:30  at  night,  that  is  going  to  have  a  real  effect  on  the  residential  neighbor- 
hood ...  If  the  traffic  roar  starts  increasing  on  Kissling  Street  around  10:30 
at  night  because  that's  the  time  of  maximum  usage  of  the  garage,  that  can  make 
people's  lives  pretty  miserable  .   .   .  And  those  are  the  kinds  of  things  that 
ought  to  appear  in  this  report." 

RESPONSE  #10;     As  explained  in  Appendix  C  "Traffic  Noise  Impact  Assessment" 
(pp.  134-149)  of  the  draft  EIR,  ambient  noise  levels  at  the  locations  of  most 
potentially  heavily  impacted  residences  on  Kissling  and  Eleventh  Streets  were 
measured  during  the  periods  when  project-generated  traffic  would  be  expected  to 
have  its  greatest  potential  impacts  on  those  particular  locations.     Because  the 
one-way  street  system  in  this  area  tends  to  separate  arriving  and  departing 
traffic,  the  periods  of  greatest  potential  noise  impacts  at  these  two  locations 
were  between  3:30  A.M.  and  5:00  A.M.  and  between  4:00  P.M.  and  5:00  P.M.  The 
project  noise  consultant  then  estimated  the  potential  noise  impact  of  project- 
generated  traffic  on  the  ambient  noise  level  measured  during  these  periods.  In 
all  cases  the  result  was  that  there  was  no  estimated  significant  increase  in 
the  ambient  noise  level  due  to  project-generated  traffic. 

COMMENT  #11;     Verbal  statement  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Sue  Hestor,    Chairperson  of  the  Zoning  and  Housing  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow  (SFT) :     "Do  the  residents  of  Kissling  Street  know  about  this?" 

RESPONSE  #11;     Notices  have  been  posted  as  noted  in  Response  #1. 

COmENT  #12;     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Norman  Rolf,  Chairperson  of  the  Transportation  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow:     "There  is  a  very  serious  deficiency  ...  a  very  cavalier  rejection 
of  public  transportation,  completely  ignoring  the  fact  that  they  do  have  five 
lines  with  owl  service  on  Market  Street;  AC  Transit  and  Golden  Gate  Transit  both 
have  owl  service. 

RESPONSE  #12:     The  Data  Center  EIR  (EE  74.128)  discussed  this  subject  on  pages 
B-5  through  B-10,  as  mentioned  in  Response  #4.     "The  Bank  of  America  Data  Center 
would  be  well  served  by  the  current  area  transit  system  during  the  normal  work 
day"  (p.  B-5).     "Of  the  20  (Muni)  lines  which  pass  by  or  near  the  Data  Center 
site,  seven  provide  Owl  Service;  streetcar  Lines  K  and  L  and  coach  Line  41  every 
60  minutes,  and  streetcar  Lines  J  and  N  and  coach  Lines  14  and  47  every  30 
minutes"  (p.  B-7).     Other  than  the  Muni  owl  service  one  AC  Transit  route  to  the 
east  bay  and  the  eventual  24-hour  operation  of  BART,  night-time  transit  service 
to  the  data  center  is  not  available  for  periods  of  from  two  to  four  hours  between 
1:00  A.M.  and  6:00  A.M.  and  is  generally  infrequent  between  7  P.M.  and  6  A.M. 

COMMENT  #13:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Norman  Rolf,  Chairperson  of  the  Transportation  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow:     "(T)hey  say  the  area  is  unsafe  for  people  standing  around  waiting  for 
public  transportation.     I  wonder  do  they  mean  Twelfth  and  Kissling  or  do  they 
mean  Tenth  and  Market?  .   .   .    (I)s  the  B  of  A  saying  that  they've  made  Market 
Street  unsafe?" 

a 

Appendix  C,  Section  IV:     Impact  Assessment   (p.   140).     The  criteria  used  to 
assess  the  significance  of  potential  increases  in  the  ambient  noise  level  are 
discussed  in  Section  III:     Acoustic  Impact  Criteria   (p.  139). 


-  69F  - 


RESPONSE  #13:     Page  14  of  the  report  states,  "When  (public  transportation) 
service  is  available,  it  is  frequently  considered  unattractive  due  to  actual 
crime  or  the  perception  that  the  incidence  of  crime  is  high  both  aboard  transit 
vehicles  and  at  waiting  areas."    This  was  one  result  of  a  survey  of  employees  of 
the  existing  data  center  conducted  by  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  for  the  Data 
Center  EIR  (EE  74.128). 

COMMENT  //14:    Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Norman  Rolf,  Chairperson  of  the  Transportation  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow:     "(A)re  they  going  to  charge  their  employees  for  parking  in  this  garage?" 

RESPONSE  //14:     A  fee  would  be  charged  to  daytime  users,  except  that  daytime  carpools 
of  three  would  be  allowed  to  park  free  as  an  incentive  to  employees  to  form  carpools. 

COMMENT  //15:       Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Norman  Rolf,  Chairperson  of  the  Transportation  Committee  of  San  Francisco 
Tomorrow:     "(I)t  happens  that  the  Fifth  and  Mission  Garage  isn't  much  further 
away,  and  that's  empty  at  night.     Plenty  of  space  available  there  at  rates  which 
are  pretty  cheap.     So  I  would  suggest  the  EIR  be  taken  back  because  I  think 
there's  an  alternative  to  building  a  new  garage  to  be  evaluated.     They  could  run 
their  shuttle  buses  to  Fifth  and  Mission  if  they  had  to." 

RESPONSE  #15:      The  potential  for  use  of  the  Fifth  and  Mission  Garage  was  studied 
by  the  bank  in  1972  when  it  was  beginning  to  study  the  data  center  project.  The 
Fifth  and  Mission  Garage  is  at  or  near  capacity  during  the  period  from  7:00  A.M. 
to  5:00  P.M.    Most  of  the  swing  shift  data  center  employees  would  arrive  between 
2:30  P.M.  and  6:30  P.M.,  therefore  at  least  50%  of  the  swing  shift  workers  would 
overlap  the  peak  capacity  period.     Most  midnight  shift  employees  would  depart 
between  7:30  A.M.  and  9:30  A.M.,  therefore  nearly  all  would  overlap  the  peak 
period.     Since  the  Fifth  and  Mission  Garage  does  not  lease  spaces,  there  could 
have  been  no  guarantee  that  swing  shift  employees  would  be  able  to  find  a  space; 
therefore,  this  plan  was  abandoned  by  the  bank. 

COMMENT  #16:    Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Lyle  Stanton,  representative  of  the  San  Francisco  Building  Trades  Council:  "Bank 
of  America  will  provide  25,000  jobs  in  that  computer  center  on  a  round-the-clock 
basis  .   .   .  about  8,000  per  shift,  which  amounts  to  about  30  people  per  car  in 
that  800  car  garage,  and  I  don't  think  we're  going  to  get  that  kind  of  carpool." 

RESPONSE  #16:     According  to  the  Data  Center  EIR  (EE  74.128)  page  B-33,  the  data 
center  will  provide  6,660  jobs  by  1985:     4,510  day  shift,  1,520  swing  shift  and 
630  midnight  shift  positions.     By  2000  it  will  provide  12,750  jobs:     8,630  day 
shift,  2,910  swing  shift  and  1,210  midnight  shift. 

COMMENT  #17:    Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Lyle  Stanton,  representative  of  the  San  Francisco  Building  Trades  Council: 
"There's  also  a  big  vacant  building  that  is  standing  there  now  that  will  probably 
never  be  used  .   .   .  and  anything  .   .   .   (other)  than  this  garage  .   .   .  probably 
would  have  a  much  larger  impact  on  the  environment  as  far  as  cars  coming  in  for 
a  building  to  put  somebody  to  work  in." 


Written  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  H.  M.  Huckabay, 
Vice-President,  Bank  of  T^erica,  May  16,  1977.     Copy  on  file  at  the  Office  of 
Environmental  Review,  San  Francisco  Department  of  City  Planning. 


-  69G  - 


RESPONSE  #17;     The  daily  auto  trip  generation  of  automobile-servicing,  clothing 
manufacturing  or  office  users,  the  three  activities  mentioned  on  page  53  of  the 
draft  EIR  as  most  likely  to  occupy  the  existing  buildings  if  the  project  were 
not  constructed,  would  probably  be  less  than  that  of  the  proposed  parking  struc- 
ture.   However,  the  air  quality  and  noise  impacts  of  these  alternative  uses 
would  depend  on  the  specific  characteristics  of  such  an  operation,  especially 
its  hours  of  operation. 

COMMENT  //18;    Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Sue  Bierman,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "What  percentage  of  your 
computer  employees  live  in  the  city?  ...  Do  you  have  a  bigger  percentage  in 
the  daytime  than  at  night?" 

RESPONSE  #18;     Between  50%  and  60%  of  the  employees  of  the  current  data  center 
are  residents  of  San  Francisco.     This  is  true  of  workers  in  all  shifts.  This 
ratio  is  expected  to  remain  the  same  in  the  future. 

COMMENT  #19;    Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Charles  Starbuck,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner;     "What  about  (the 
potential  for)  your  midnight  shift  (to  use  the  Fifth  and  Mission  Garage)?" 

RESPONSE  #19;     The  majority  of  the  midnight  shift  workers  would  depart  between 
7:30  A.M.  and  9:30  A.M.  after  the  Fifth  and  Mission  Garage  has  normally  reached 
capacity  or  near  capacity.     This  would  have  the  effect  of  displacing  daytime 
users  of  the  garage.     Since  the  majority  of  swing  shift  employees  would  arrive 
before  the  Fifth  and  Mission  Garage  begins  emptying  of  daytime  users 
other  space  would  have  to  be  acquired  to  accommodate  swing  shift  employees. 
Since  the  midnight  shift  is  smaller  than  the  swing  shift,  it  would  not  be 
efficient  to  acquire  space  to  accommodate  the  swing  shift,  then  leave  most  of 
those  spaces  vacant  while  sending  the  midnight  shift  to  another  garage. 

COMMENT  #20:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Sue  Bierman,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner;     "But  in  here  you  talk 
about  varying  the  shifts  .   .   .  couldn't  you  have  some  people  come  to  work  at 
6:00  P.M.  and  then  that  Fifth  and  Mission  Garage  is  emptying  out  .   .  .?" 

RESPONSE  #20;     The  first  consideration  of  the  bank  in  trying  to  stagger  employees  is 
to  stagger  them  in  relationship  to  the  work  that  is  to  be  performed.     The  data  center 
receives,  processes  and  returns  work  from  all  northern  California  branches  every 
night,  which  allows  potential  for  only  minor  variations  in  shift  schedules. 

COMMENT  #21;     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 

Ina  Dearman,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner;     "Did  you  say  that  by  1985 

an  additional  650  parking  spaces  would  be  required?" 

RESPONSE  #21;     Based  on  the  estimates  of  the  number  of  employees  per  shift  shown 
on  page  34  in  the  Data  Center  EIR  (EE  74.128)  and  the  modal  split  estimates  on 
page  B-31  it  was  estimated  in  the  Data  Center  EIR  that  a  satellite  parking  facility 
of  about  1400  spaces  would  be  required  to  satisfy  the  parking  needs  of  swing  and 
midnight  shift  workers  in  1985.     This  assumes  some  decline  in  the  percentage  of 
swing  and  midnight  shift  employees  who  drive  to  work  and  a  constant  ratio  of  1.5 
employees  per  auto  of  the  employees  using  autos.     If  the  percentage  who  drive  to 
work  did  not  decline,  then  the  need  would  be  for  about  1500  spaces.     The  proposed 
structure  would  provide  850  spaces,  leaving  a  shortfall  by  1985  of  550  to  650  spaces. 


-  69H  - 


COMMENT  #22;     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by  Charles 
Starbuck,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "There's  only  one  tiny  sentence 
in  the  EIR  which  talks  about  the  ultimate  parking  demand,  and  I  think  we  really 
need  more  information  on  the  incremental  phasing  of  the  entire  parking  picture  in 
order  to  evaluate  this  thing." 

RESPONSE  #22;     The  data  center  phase  I  is  scheduled  to  open  in  1978  and  to  reach 
capacity  in  1985  while  phase  II  would  open  in  1985  and  reach  capacity  in  2000 
(EE  74.128  page  33).     The  proposed  project  would  be  expected  to  reach  capacity  in 
about  1981-1983.     Some  time  before  the  project  reaches  capacity  the  bank  would 
evaluate  the  need  for  additional  parking  facilities  and  make  a  decision  on  how  best 
to  proceed  to  satisfy  that  need.     As  discussed  in  Response  #21  the  exact  timing 
and  magnitude  of  the  need  will  be  affected  by  two  variables;     the  percentage  of 
swing  and  midnight  shift  employees  driving  and  the  number  of  occupants  per  vehicle. 
Beyond  1985  there  is  so  much  uncertainty  concerning  the  potential  driving  habits 
of  employees  and  availability  of  transit  that  it  is  impossible  to  forecast  with 
any  accuracy  the  timing  or  magnitude  of  any  additional  parking  facility  provision. 

COMMENT  #23;     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Charles  Starbuck,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "(0)n  page  14  .    .  . 
I  think  the  reviewers  .   .   .  need  .   .   .  some  sort  of  percentage  breakdown  about 
where  all  these  employees  existing  and  future  will  be  coming  from." 

RESPONSE  #23:     A  breakdown  of  the  home  address  of  data  center  employees  in  1974 
by  county  is  shown  below.     It  is  impossible  to  predict  the  exact  distribution  of 
future  employees,  but  there  is  no  reason  to  expect  that  it  would  change  greatly. 

County   All  Shifts  Day  Shift  Swing  Shift  Midnight  Shift 

San  Francisco  61%  54%  71%  70% 

San  Mateo  17%  19%  17%  14% 

Alameda  10%  11%  6%  11% 

Contra  Costa  6%  8%  3%  3% 

Other  6%  8%  3%  2% 


Source:     Bank  of  America 


COMMENT  #24:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Charles  Starbuck,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "(T)here  would  be 
priority  given  to    (daytime)   carpools  and  it's  not  clear  whether  or  not  that  same 
priority  would  prevail  for  the  night  shift  workers." 

RESPONSE  #24:     The  bank  has  stated  that  carpools  would  receive  priority  in  space 
assignment  over  employees  driving  alone  in  all  shifts. 

COMMENT  #25:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  piiblic  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Charles  Starbuck,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "  (T)he  reviewer  has 
to  know  .   .    .  whether  or  not  the  garage  will  continue  to  accelerate  the  expansion 
of  the  automotive  service  business  in  this  particular  area." 


-  691  - 


RESPONSE  #25;     It  is  impossible  to  say  with  certainty  that  this  would  or  would  not 
accelerate  the  expansion  of  the  automotive  service  business  in  the  area.  The 
report  states  that  the  project  could  generate  additional  business  for  this  type 
of  establishment.     The  outcome  would  depend  on  whether  the  users  find  it  advan- 
tageous to  have  their  autos  serviced  in  the  area  and  whether  the  service  establish- 
ments would  make  any  effort  to  attract  this  business  such  as  by  adjusting  their 
hours . 

COMMENT  #26:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1911 ,  by 
Charles  Starbuck,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "Then  on  the  same 
page,  this  is  not  a  part  of  the  EIR,  I  think  it's  time  for  the  transportation 
staff  to  have  a  look  at  how  we  have  the  downtown  automobile  corridors  mapped." 

RESPONSE  #26:     As  mentioned  in  the  comment,  this  is  not  relevant  to  the  EIR  and 
requires  no  response. 

COMMENT  #27:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Charles  Starbuck,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "On  page  43  where 
the  project  sponsor  suggests  increasing  the  lane  capacity  on  Thirteenth  Street 
from  two  to  three  lanes,  whether  or  not  that  will  have  any  interference  with 
transit  preferential  streets  such  as  Mission." 

RESPONSE  #27:     The  secondary  effect  of  the  change  of  the  lane  configuration  on 
Thirteenth  Street  was  not  felt  to  be  within  the  scope  of  this  EIR,  but  would 
have  to  be  considered  carefully  by  the  Department  of  Public  Works. 

COMMENT  #28;     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Charles  Starbuck,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner;     "Requested  quanti- 
fication of  the  number  of  parking  spaces  that  would  be  lost  if  a  horizontal-floored 
structure  were  constructed  instead  of  the  proposed  sloped-floor  structure." 

RESPONSE  #28:     The  project  architect  estimates  that  approximately  200  spaces  would 
be  lost  if  this  design  change  were  made.     One  entire  floor  would  be  lost  as  greater 
separation  between  floor  and  ceiling  would  be  required  to  make  the  structure 
suitable  for  other  uses  and  the  floors  themselves  would  be  thicker  as  heavier 
support  members  would  be  required.     The  remainder  of  the  space  lost  would  be 
required  for  the  spiral  ramps  necessary  to  connect  the  floors. 

COMMENT  #29:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  piiblic  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Charles  Starbuck,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "On  page  76,  which 
consists  of  the  data  on  transit  service  in  the  surrounding  area,  there  is  a 
discussion  ...  of  the  23  Muni  lines  which  serve  the  general  two  block  area. 
There  is  no  discussion  of  BART,  of  the  Greyhound  Bus  Terminal,  Golden  Gate  Transit, 
potential  hook-ups  with  Sam  Trans,  and  I  think,  in  addition  to  that,  that  it 
would  be  helpful  that  since  we  had  a  chart  in  here  indicating  the  frequency  of 
service  on  page  79  for  Muni,  we  could  have  charts  for  the  frequency  of  service 
for  the  other  public  transportation." 

RESPONSE  #29;     In  Responses  #4  and  #12  it  has  been  explained  that  the  purpose  of 
providing  the  data  on  transit  service  in  this  report  was  to  present  an  assessment 
of  the  potential  for  conflict  between  transit  service  and  project-generated 


-  69J  - 


traffic.     The  other  transit  services  do  not  generally  operate  in  the  study  area 
or  on  streets  impacted  by  project-generated  traffic.     Transit  access  to  the  data 
center  was  described  in  the  Data  Center  EIR  (EE  74.128)  on  pages  B-5  through  B-10. 

COMMENT  #30:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Charles  Starbuck,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "On  page  129,  Table 
B-3,  that's  just  incomprehensible  without  further  explanation." 

RESPONSE  #30;     The  table  shows  the  percentage  of  all  employees  working  in  each 
city  who  drive  to  work.     The  purpose  of  this  table  was  to  provide  data  upon  which 
one  could  make  an  estimate  of  the  additional  number  of  employees  who  would  have  to 
drive  had  the  data  center  been  located  elsewhere  in  the  region. 

COMMENT  #31:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 
Charles  Starbuck,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "(I)t  appears  that 
the  bank  is  very  pessimistic  .   .   .  about  people's  driving  habits  changing  and 
I'm  wondering  if  the  bank  might  have  a  little  stronger  definition  of  what  they 
actually  intend  to  do  in  terms  of  mitigation  measures.     I'm  speaking  specifically 
about  carpooling  .   .   .  which  is  discussed  and  then  dismissed  and  finally,  if 
feasible,  whether  or  not  it  is  possible  to  have  charter  bus  arrangements  for 
large  groups  of  employees  who  would  be  arriving  at  the  same  times  at  the  same 
shifts." 

RESPONSE  #31:     The  bank  has  stated  that  it  would  encourage  carpools  by  giving 
priority  in  the  assignment  of  spaces  during  all  shifts  and  additional  encourage- 
ment during  the  day  shift  as  carpools  would  not  be  charged  whereas  employees 
driving  alone  would.     The  bank  has  considered  van-pooling  from  time  to  time  but 
would  prefer  not  to  implement  an  approach  which  would  provide  benefits  to  some 
employees  while  excluding  others.     The  bank  would  have  the  same  reservation  con- 
cerning a  charter  bus  system  as  it  does  concerning  van-pooling.     In  addition,  the 
bank  feels  a  charter  bus  system  may  not  be  feasible  as  the  greatest  number  of 
employees  arriving  in  any  one  hour  in  1984  would  be  approximately  420,  which 
would  be  about  10  bus  loads.       Given  the  diverse  origins  and  destinations  of 
employees  discussed  in  Response  #23,  the  resulting  service  areas  per  bus  would 
likely  be  too  large  to  serve  effectively. 

COMMENT  #32:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Sue  Bierman,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     " (Y)ou  know  that  we  really 
work  with  communities  and  to  have  a  one  page  section  where  nobody  here  had  been 
in  contact  with  anybody  ...  We  always  are  asking  people  to  get  together,  now 
the  B  of  A  is  a  big  one  to  get  together  with  ...   I  know  there's  an  active 
Filipino  group  that  we  worked  with  during  the  Y.B.C.  thing." 

RESPONSE  #32:     As  discussed  in  Response  #1,  the  neighborhood  liaison  planner 
was  notified  of  the  project,  the  site  was  posted  and  community  leaders  were 
notified  of  the  proposed  project.     Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  also  contacted 
residents  of  Kissling  Street  on  May  17  and  18  between  4:00  P.M.  and  7:00  P.M. 
Residents  of  37  of  the  39  units  on  Kissling  Street  were  contacted.     Each  resident 
contacted  was  asked  if  he/she  knew  about  the  proposed  project.     If  not,  the 
following  explanation  was  given,   "The  Bank  of  America  is  proposing  to  build  a 
six-story  parking  structure  on  that  corner   (location  shown  by  pointing  at  it) 
for  their  employees  who  work  in  their  new  offices  on  Eleventh  and  Market  Streets. 

Verbal  communication  between  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  and  H.  M.  Huckabay, 
Vice-President,  Bank  of  America,  May  23,  1977. 


-  69K  - 


A  shuttle  bus  would  run  frcm  the  garage  to  the  offices  along  Kissling  Street 
and  up  Eleventh  Street  during  the  day.     At  night  the  shuttle  would  run  up 
Twelfth  Street  to  Howard  Street,  over  to  Eleventh  Street  and  then  up  to  Market 
Street.     The  project  would  mean  more  traffic  on  your  street."    Questions  involving 
children  were  asked  and  general  comments  or  reactions  requested.     These  are 
summarized  below  and  in  Response  #33. 

A  majority  of  respondents  stated  that  children  do  use  Kissling  Street  as  a  play- 
ground frequently  between  the  hours  of  3:30  P.M.  and  6:00  P.M.  weekdays  and 
day-light  hours  on  weekends.    There  is  a  parochial  school  with  a  playground 
located  at  the  northeast  end  of  Kissling  Street  across  Eleventh  Street  from  the 
residents  interviewed,  but  it  is  closed  after  school  hours.     Approximately  600 
square  feet  of  play  area  is  also  available  adjacent  to  one  of  the  buildings  on 
Kissling  Street.     Twelve  residents  own  automobiles  and  some  of  these  residents 
were  concerned  that  the  parking  prohibition  on  one  side  of  Kissling  Street  would 
be  enforced  in  the  future  if  the  structure  were  built.     Residents  also  mentioned 
that:     1.     increased  activity  might  tend  to  reduce  crime  in  the  area;  2.  there 
might  be  more  traffic  and/or  pedestrian  noise  after  5:00  P.M.;  3.  increased 
pedestrian  traffic  might  interfere  with  a  pottery  kiln  operation  on  Kissling 
Street;  and  4.  the  project  might  be  a  harbinger  of  further  development  that  would 
displace  their  homes. 

COMMENT  #33:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing,  April  28,  1977,  by 
Sue  Bierman,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "(T)here's  a  figure  in 
here  -  I  think  we  need  some  more  work  done  on  it  -  on  Kissling  Street  right  now 
it  is  hard  to  know  how  many  children  there  are  ...  I'd  like- to  know  how  many 
kids  there  are  on  Kissling,  and  it  seems  to  me  that's  just  a  little  tiny  survey." 

RESPONSE  #33:     The  1970  Census  showed  51  children  under  the  age  of  18  residing 
in  the  block  surround  Kissling  Street,  which  includes  some  residential  units 
facing  on  Howard  and  Folsom  Streets  as  well  as  Kissling  Street.     In  the  course 
of  the  survey  discussed  in  Response  #32  the  interviewer  asked  how  many  children 
resided  in  each  residential  unit.     Of  the  39  units  on  Kissling  Street  responses 
were  obtained  from  37  units  and  the  niomber  of  children  under  the  age  of  18  was 
20,  including  5  children  who  reside  part  of  the  time  with  their  grandparents 
on  Kissling  Street. 

COMMENT  #34:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  piablic  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Sue  Bierman,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "I  think  it's  a  little 
misleading  to  have  a  statement  in  this  EIR  that  the  bank  has  the  ability  to 
control  traffic.     I  mean  it  says  they  would  do  all  they  can  to  discourage  traffic. 
If  the  street  is  open,  there  will  be  traffic." 

RESPONSE  #34:     The  project  traffic  engineer  estimated  that  without  any  bank 
action  about  180  project-related  autos  would  use  Kissling  Street  per  day,  but 
with  strong  discouragement  in  the  form  of  staff  memos  and  notices  posted  in 
the  proposed  structure  no  employees  would  use  Kissling  Street  as  they  would 
gain  very  little  advantage  from  using  it. 

COMMENT  #35:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,  1977,  by 

Sue  Bierman,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "Then  on  page  37  it  talks 

about  all  the  pedestrian  traffic  will  make  it  safer  and  I  know  that  means  from 


-  69L  - 


a  criminal  element,  but  then  if  that's  kind  of  trying  to  sell  this  garage  ...  I 
don't  think  EIR's  ought  to  be  selling  something." 

RESPONSE  #35;     The  report  states  that  the  additional  pedestrian  traffic  possibly 
would  make  the  streets  safer,  which  is  a  potential  impact  of  the  project. 

COMMENT  #36:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Sue  Bierman,  San  Francisco  City  Planning  Commissioner:     "The  only  other  thing 
that  I  would  like  some  further  work  done  on  is  maybe  this  garage  doesn't  need  to 
be  but  half  this  size,  I  mean,  maybe  it  doesn't  need  to  be  at  all.     I  really  have 
doubts  and  it  seems  to  me  that  the  Fifth  and  Mission  Garage  is  only  one  of  those 
close  by  ...   I  think  this  city  is  full  of  empty  garages." 

RESPONSE  #36:     The  need  for  this  proposed  facility  was  first  discussed  in  the 
Data  Center  EIR   (EE  74.128)   and  is  repeated  in  this  report.     The  potential  for 
use  of  the  Fifth  and  Mission  Garage  was  discussed  in  Responses  #15,  19  and  20.  In 
the  Data  Center  EIR  private  parking  facilities  in  the  data  center  area  were  in- 
ventoried on  pages  B-15  through  B-19.     That  inventory  shows  that  the  bank  would 
have  to  use  numerous  locations  to  satisfy  the  parking  needs  of  swing  and  midnight 
shift  employees  which  would  make  shuttle  bus  service  very  inefficient  and/or 
ineffective. 

COMMENT  #37:     Verbal  comment  delivered  at  public  hearing  April  28,   1977,  by 
Rai  Okamoto,  San  Francisco  Planning  Department  Director:     "The  EIR  refers  to  39 
as  the  year-round  housing  units.     Are  there  transient  units?     Could  we  also  have 
specification  on  how  many  units  there  are  on  adjacent  blocks?" 

RESPONSE  #37:     There  are  transient  units  in  the  area.     The  number  of  year-round 
housing  units  according  to  the  1970  census  are  shown  on  Figure  II. 


-  69M  - 


Figure  II 
Housing  Units  in  the  Project  Area 


Block  Number 
Residential 

Residential  over  Commercial 
year-round  housing  units 

Source:     U.S.  Census  of  Population,  Block 
Statistics,  1970. 


-  69N  - 


XV.  RESOLUTION 


SAN  FRAl^CISCO 
CITY  PLANNING  COMMISSION 
RESOLUTION  N0„  7733 


WHEREAS,  A  draft  environmental  impact  report,  dated  March  25,  1977, 
has  been  prepared  by  the  Department  of  City  Planning  in  connection  with 
EE75«414,  Bank  of  America  Data  Processing  Center  Parking  Structure,  on  the 
property  described  as  follows: 

Southeast  corner  of  Twelfth  and  Kissling  Streets, 
Lot  19  in  Zissessor's  Block  3516; 

and 

WHEREAS,  The  Department  duly  filed  a  notice  of  completion  of  the  draft 
report  with  the  Secretary  of  the  California  Resources  Agency,  gave  other 
notice  and  requested  comments  as  required  by  law,  made  the  report  availcible 
to  the  general  public  and  satisfied  other  procedural  requirements;  and 

VJHEREAS,  The  City  Planning  Commission  held  a  duly  advertised  public 
hearing  on  said  draft  environmental  impact  report  on  April  28,  1977,  at 
which  opportunity  was  given  for  public  participation  and  comments;  and 

WHEREAS,  A  final  environmental  impact  report,  dated  May  26,  1977,  has 
been  prepared  by  the  Department,  based  upon  the  draft  environmental  impact 
report,  any  consultations  and  comments  received  during  the  review  process, 
any  additional  information  that  became  available,  and  a  response  to  any 
comments  that  raised  significant  points  concerning  effects  on  the  environ- 
ment, all  as  required  by  law;  and 

WHEREAS,  On  May  26,  1977,  the  Commission  reviewed  the  final  environ- 
mental impact  report,  and  found  that  the  contents  of  said  report  and  the 
procedures  through  which  it  was  prepared,  publicized  and  reviewed  comply 
with  the  provisions  of  the  California  Environmental  Quality  Act,  the 
Guidelines  of  the  Secretary  for  Resources  and  San  Francisco  requirements; 

THEREFORE  BE  IT  RESOLVED,  That  the  City  Planning  Commission  does  hereby 
find  that  the  Final  Environmental  Impact  Report,  dated  May  26,  1977,  concern' 
ing  EE75.414,  Bank  of  America  Data  Processing  Center  Parking  Structure,  is 
adequate,  accurate  and  objective,  and  does  hereby  CERTIFY  THE  COMPLETION  of 
said  Report  in  compliance  with  the  California  Environmental  Quality  Act  and 
the  State  Guidelines; 

AND  BE  IT  FURTHER  RESOLVED,  That  the  Commission  in  certifying  the  com- 
pletion of  said  Report  does  hereby  find  that  the  project  as  proposed  will 
not  have  a  significant  effect  on  the  environment. 


-  6  9P  - 


CITY  PLANNING  COMMISSION 


Resolution  No.  7733 
Page  Two 


I  hereby  certify  that  the  foregoing  Resolution  was  ADOPTED  by  the  City 
Planning  Coinmission  at  its  regular  meeting  of  May  26,  1977. 


Lynn  E.  Pio 
Secretary 

AYES:  Commissioners  Carey,  Dearman,  Elliott,  Lau,  Rosenblatt,  Starbuck 

NOES:  None 

ABSENT:      Commissioner  Bierman 
PASSED:       May  26,  1977 


-  690  - 


APPENDIX  A 
TRANSPORTATION  IMPACTS 


BANK  OF  AMERICA  DATA  CENTER 
PARKING  FACILITY 
SAN  FRANCISCO,  CALIFORNIA 


EE  75.414 


-  70  - 


Table  of  Contents 


Section  Title  Page 


I              PROJECT  DESCRIPTION  oo  o  o   73 

II               EXISTING  CONDITIONS  IN  SURROUNDING  AREA   76 

A.  Transit  Serviceo  ».  76 

lo     Transit  Lines.  0....0   76 

2.  Transit  Preferential  Streets  0..0.  78 

B.  Thoroughf  ares.  .  .  .  o  o  .  o  .  .  .  o  00...0.,...  80 

1.     Major  Thoroughf  ares .  o   80 

2 „     Secondary  Thoroughfares . o . . » . . . . o  o . .  83 

3.  Street  Characteristics  o   83 

Co     Bicycle  Routes,,  o   85 

1.  Existing  Bicycle  Routes  00....  85 

2,  Streets  Designated  as  Bicycle  Routes.. o..  85 

III               DISTRIBUTION  OF  VARIOUS  TRANSPORTATION  MODES   87 

A.  Automobile  Traffic.  0  o  87 

1.  Existing  CountSo.o  o..,  o  87 

2.  Street  Capacity                       .  .  c  o  .  .  .  .  o  87 

3.,     Vehicle  Traffic  Generated  by  Projecto..o.  95 

B.  Pedestrian  Traffic  Generated  by  Proj ect o o . . . .  99 

IV              ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACTS .  .  o  o  o  o  .  .  o  .  .  99 

A,  Transit  Impact  o  o  .  .  .  o  .  .  .  99 

B.  Traffic  Impact ,.  o  o  .  .  o  .  .  .  o  .  .  o  .  .  .  .  100 

1„     Impact  on  Street  System  o  100 

2„     Impact  on  Neighborhood  Streets  o   107 

3.  Impact  of  Shuttle  Bus  Pick-Up  and 

Drop-Off  Zones . . » . . . o . . . o . . 0 . o . . . o . 0 . . . »  111 

4.  Impact  of  Kissling  Street  as  a  One-way 

Street  o  .  ......  <>  o  .  .  o  o  112 

5.  Impact  on  Parking  Around  the  Data  Center,  112 
Co     Impact  on  Pedestrian  Accessibility   113 

V              ALTERNATIVES  o  0.0  ,.0,000..  114 

Ac     Site  Location. c.., o..., ...... o .. o . .  114 

B.     Kissling  Street,  o.,,  o.,,  0...0.0..  115 

VI               MITIGATING  MEASURES  ,  00  o..,   117 

A.  Vehicular  Access. . . . , . . . , . o . . . , . ,   117 

B.  Kissling  Street  as  a  One-way  Street o o .. o .  117 

C.  Alternative  Shuttle  Bus  Routing   118 

D.  Distance  to  Data  Center.      ,  ,  o....,  119 

E.  Traffic  Capacity  Improvements o.., o.,, o,. .  119 

F.  Further  Staggering  of  Work  Hours ........... o .  120 

G.  Incremental  Parking  Program,  .  -  ,   120 


-  71  - 


List  of  Tables 


Table 

Number  Title  Page 

1  S.F.  Municipal  Railway  Service   79 

2  Area  Traffic  Counts   88 

3  Area  Freeway  Traffic  Counts   92 

4  Traffic  Generated  By  Project   98 

5  Commuter  Peak  Hour  Muni  Transit  Vehicle  Traffic...  103 

6  Vo Lume-Capacity  Analysis  On  Major  Departure 

Routes..   105 

7  Neighborhood  Street  Traffic   107 


List  of  Figures 


Figure 

Number                           Title  Page 

1  Vicinity  Map   74 

2  Site  Plan   75 

3  Transit  Lines   77 

4  Transit  Preferential  Streets   81 

5.            Thoroughfares   82 

6  Study  Area  Street  System   84 

7  Bicycle  Routes   86 

8  Volume /Capacity  Relationship  -  Existing 

AM  Peak  Hour   96 

9  Volume/Capacity  Relationship  -  Existing 

PM  Peak  Hour   97 

10  Parking  Fac l 1 i ly  Traffic  -  AM  Peak  Commuter  Hour..  101 

11  Parking  Facility  Traffic  -  PM  Peak  Commuter  Hour..  102 
Shuttle  Bus  Route   I09 


12 


-  72  - 


Appendix  A 
TRANSPORTATION  IMPACTS^ 
Bank  of  America  Data  Center  Parking  Facility 
San  Francisco,  California 

I.     PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 

The  Bank  of  America  Data  Center  Parking  facility  would  be 
located  on  Parcels  One  and  Two,  Assessors  Block  3516,   in  the 
City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,   State  of  California.  The 
1.2-acre  site  is  located  on  the  southeasterly  corner  of  the 
"T"  intersection  of  12th  Street  and  Kissling  Street,  and  is 
bounded  by  Kissling  Street  on  the  north,   12th  Street  on  the  west, 
and  existing  buildings  on  the  south  and  east   (see  Figure  1,  page 
74  for  Vicinity  Map). 

Present  plans  call  for  a  six-level  parking  structure  con- 
taining approximately  850  spaces,  with  all  access  from  12th 
Street  via  two  driveways,  one  entering  driveway  and  one  exiting 
driveway  (see  Figure  2,   page  75),     The  subject  Parking  Facility 
would  be  access  controlled  and  would  serve  only  persons  employed 
at  the  Bank  of  America  Data  Center     (located  approximately  1200 
feet  to  the  north  in  the  block  bounded  by  Market  Street,  10th 
Street,  Mission  Street  and  11th  Street)  and  at  the  existing  Data 
Processing  facility  at  One  South  Van  Ness.     Specifically,  the 
Parking  Facility  would  be  intended  to  meet  the  parking  demand 
generated  by  the  swing  and  midnight  shifts  at  the  Data  Center. 
In  doing  so,   there  would  be  a  number  of  day  shift  parkers  who 
would  not  be  accommodated  in  the  Parking  Facility  due  to  the 
need  to  have  parking  spaces  available  for  swing  shift  employees 
who  arrive  before  the  day  shift  departs  and  for  overlaps  during 
the  day  shift  departure  period. 


The  transportation  appendix  is  based  upon  material  submitted  by 
Linscott,  Law  &  Greenspan. 

'Final  Environmental  Impact  Report,  EE  74.128;   Bank  of  America 
Data  Center,  Market-Tenth-Mission-Eleventh  Streets,   San  Fran- 
cisco, California;  Department  of  City  Planning;  City  and 
County  of  San  Francisco;   August  28,  1975. 


-  73  - 


LEGEND 

©     EXISTING  DATA  CENTER 


O  20OO 
SCALE   IN  FEET 


-  74 


1 

VICINITY  MAP 


o     10  20 

SCALE  IN  FT. 


SITE  PLAN 

-  75  - 


Parking  Facility   for  Bank  of  Ame  ri  ca  Data  Dato  C  e  n  t  e  r  •  Son  Francisco 


A  shuttle  bus  between  the  Parking  Facility  at  12th  and 
Kissling  and  the  Data  Center  at  Mission  and  11th  would  be  oper- 
ated by  the  Bank  of  America  solely  for  the  use  of  its  employees. 
The  relative  proximity  of  the  Parking  Facility  site  to  the  Data 
Center  would  also  allow  a  pedestrian  alternative  for  those 
employees  who  chose  to  walk  rather  than  ride  the  shuttle  bus. 

The  subject  850-space  Parking  Facility    is  the  first  of 
the  parking  facilities  which  would  be  built  to  provide  off- 
street  parking  for  Data  Center  employees.     Rather  than  develop 
all  of  the  parking  which  would  be  required  to  meet  parking 
demand  generated  by  the  completed  Data  Center  in  the  year  2000, 
the  Bank  of  America  has  determined  that  it  would  be  better, 
from  a  transportation  planning  standpoint,  to  provide  an  incre- 
mental parking  program.     This  would  allow  employee  parking  to 
be  developed  on  a  rational  basis  over  time.     The  parking 
facilities  would  be  sized  to  meet  anticipated  demand  after  con- 
sideration of  the  most  up-to-date  travel  characteristics  rather 
than  basing  a  construction  program  on  25-year  projections  (1975- 
2000).     Incremental  parking  development  would  also  potentially 
place  future  parking  facilities  at  different  locations.  This 
would  spread  the  generated  traffic  load  to  more  than  the  few 
streets  which  would  serve  a  single  parking  facility. 

II     EXISTING  CONDITIONS  IN  SURROUNDING  AREA 
A.     Transit  Service 
1.     Transit  Lines 

Figure  3  presents  the  San  Francisco  Municipal  Railway 
(Muni)  lines  which  serve  the  two-block-radius  study  area  sur- 
rounding the  Parking  Facility  site.*  Also  shown  on  Figure  5 
are  the  various  Muni  routes  through  the  study  area.  Twenty- 
three  Muni  lines  provide  transit  service  to  the  study  area. 
Routes  adjacent  to  the  Parking  Facility  site  consist  of  Line  41 
(Union-Howard)  and  Line  47  (Potrero).     Line  41,  which  operates 

♦Ride  the  Muni:   Pamphlet  containing  Transit  District  maps 
and  route  descriptions;  San  Francisco  Municipal  Railway; 
May,  1973. 

-  76  - 


O  400 
SCALE  IN  FEET 


3 


XX, XX,  XX  MUNI  LINE  DESIGNATIONS 
■■■■■■     MUNI  ROUTES 


-    11  - 


TRANSIT  LINES 


Parking  Facility  for  Bank  of  America  Data  Center  •  San  Francisco 


motor  coaches  within  the  study  area,  provides  southwestbound 
service  on  Howard  Street  and  northeastbound  service  via  Howard, 
11th  and  Folsom,     Line  47  operates  trolley  coaches  in  both  direc- 
tions on  lltb  Street.     There  are  no  Muni  routes  on  the  streets 
which  would  provide  direct  ingress-egress  to  the  parking  structure. 

Table  1  presents  a  tabulation  of  the  Muni  lines  which  are 
routed  through  the  study  area.     Also  shown  is  the  frequency  of 
service  (average  time  between  vehicles)  for  the  morning  and 
afternoon  peaik  commuter  periods,  the  daytime  and  evening  off- 
peak  periods  and  the  midnight  to  6:00  a.m.  period  (Owl  Service). 

In  addition  to  the  Muni,  there  is  also  a  loosely  coordinated 
jitney  service  which  is  operated  on  Mission  Street  between 
Stewart  Street  (one  block  west  of  the  Ehnbarcadero)  and  Daly  City*. 
This  service  consists  of  95  van-type  buses,  each  of  which  is 
individually  owned  and  operated  by  its  driver  and  under  license 
from  the  City.     Fares  are  SO. 25  per  passenger  between  Stewart 
and  22nd  Street  and  $0.35  beyond  22nd  Street.     These  jitneys 
operate  in  the  traffic  stream  on  Mission  Street  in  much  the  same 
way  as  a  typical  taxicab  and  are  hailed  by  waiting  passengers. 
Actual  hours  of  operation  vary  with  individual  drivers ,  but 
little  evening  and  no  after-midnight  service  appear  to  be 
offered  due  to  the  lack  of  sufficient  patronage. 

2.     Transit  Preferential  Streets 

Transit  travel  time  is  dependent  to  a  large  extent  on 
street  traffic  conditions  created  by  automobile  traffic.  Con- 
flicts between  transit  vehicles  and  automobiles  are  disadvan- 
tageous to  both.     The  aim  of  the  Transit  Preferential  Street 
is  the  reduction  of  this  conflict  so  that  transit  operating 
speed  can  be  improved  without  reducing  the  convenience  of  access 
to  transit.     This  is  being  done  by  giving  high  priority  to 
transit  vehicle  operation  on  certain  designated  streets. 

*  Information  on  jitney  service  provided  by  San  Francisco 
Jitney  Owners  Association,  Mr.  Mel  DeMartini,  President: 
December  12,  1975. 


-  78  - 


TABLE  1 

S.F.  MUNICIPAL 

RAILWAY  SERVICE 

Frequency  of 

Service  (Average  Headway) 

Type  of 

Type 

7  am- 

9  am- 

4  pm- 

-  6 

pm-Mid 

Owl 

Service 

T^oiT^o    »    T .T  no 

Veh 

9  am 

4  pm 

6  pm 

0 

am- 7  am 

Mid-o  am 

Streetcar 

SC 

41/2 

7 

5 

12 

30 

on  Market 

K-Ingleside2 

SC 

41/2 

71/2 

41/2 

12 

60 

L-Tar avail 

SC 

71/2 

31/2 

12 

60 

M— Or*  fi^^ riA7""i  i^w^ 

MC 

71/2 

6 

— 

— 

N-Judahl 

SC 

3 

51/2 

2>k 

12 

30 

Coach  on 

TC 

0 

Q 

A 

4 

10 

Market 

TC 

5 

8 

4 

15 

8— Market 

TC 

3 

61/2 

3 

14 

— 

21-Hayes 

TC 

5 

7 

5 

15 

— 

66-Quintara 

MC 

14 

15 

30 

— 

MC 

8 

15 

7 

15 

— 

MC 

8 

15 

7 

15 

Coach  on 

Q— Ri  rbl and 

TC 

61/2 

14 

8 

— 

Mission 

11-Hoffman 

MC 

IVz 

15 

15 

12-Miss ion-Ocean 

TP 

6 

7 

6 

12 

1  id-— IVIl  G  C  T  r\Y^ 

TC 

41/2 

7 

3 

12 

30 

26-Valencia 

MC 

7 

10 

5 

18 

Coach  on 

8th- 9th  St. 

19-Polk  (S.F.  Depot) 

MC 

6 

8 

5 

15 

— 

Coach  on 

Van  Ness 

47-Potrero 

TC 

5^ 

31/2 

11 

30^ 

Coach  on 

MP 

Howard 

rrX~U  IIX  \JI1"11.UW  clI  U. 

TC 

3 

10 

30 

60 

Coach  on 

Mission- 

Harrison 

A    ll  111  1  T»V 

TC 

15 

24 

12 

24 

Coach  on 

Bryant- 

Harrison 

25— Rrvant 

MC 

81/2 

12 

6^ 

15 

30 

Coach  on 

Bryant- 

Brannan 

27-N06 

MC 

15 

20 

12 

30 

— 

Source:  San 

I  Francisco  Municipal  Railway 

Average  headway 

time 

between 

vehicles,  Weekday  Schedul 

e  (School  Days);  October 

28, 

1975. 

Notes:  K. 

Motor  coaches  substituted  for 

streetcars  on 

late 

evening  and 

Owls. 

HMotor  coach  substitution 

daytime. 

Via  Line  25  (Bryant)  which  incorporates  downtown 

portion  of 

Line  47  with  a  portion  of  Line 

30  (Stockton). 

Legend:  SC 

=  streetcar        TC  =  trolley 

coach 

MC  = 

motor 

'  coach 

-  79  - 

Figure  4  presents  the  Transit  Preferential  Streets  which 
have  been  identified  in  the  Parking  Facility  site  area.  Market 
Street,  Mission  Street,  11th  Street  and  9th  and  10th  Streets  be- 
tween Market  and  Mission  have  been  designated  as  planned  Transit 
Preferential  Streets  in  the  Transportation  Element  of  the  San 
Francisco  Comprehensive  Plan.     Outside  the  study  area.  Van  Ness 
Avenue  (north  of  Market  Street ),  Hayes  Street,  Haight  Street,  Polk 
Street,  Larkin  Street,  Hyde  Street,  7th  Street,  8th  Street, 
Brannan  Street  and  Potrero  Avenue  have  also  been  designated  as 
Transit  Preferential  Streets.     It  should  also  be  noted  that  both 
10th  Street  and  11th  Street  between  Market  and  Mission  Streets 
have  been  designated  as  Transit  Preferential  Streets  even  though 
these  streets  do  not  presently  carry  transit  traffic  (see  Figure  3 
Page  77). 

B.  Thoroughfares 

1 .     Major  Thoroughfares* 

Major  thoroughfares  are  streets  whose  primary  function 
is  to  link  districts  within  the  City  and  to  distribute  traffic 
to  and  from  the  regional  freeway  system.     In  general,  major 
thoroughfares  are  streets  of  city-wide  significance  and  vary- 
ing traffic  capacity  depending  on  travel  demand  and  adjacent 
land  uses. 

Major  thoroughfares  are  presented  in  Figure  5,  Page      82.  Most 
the  access  routes  to  the  Parking  Facility  site  have  been  designated 
as  major  thoroughfares.     The  site  lies  one  block  south  of  Howard 
Street  and  two  blocks  west  of  10th  Street.     Other  nearby  major 
thoroughfares  which  provide  traffic  access  to  the  Parking 
Facility  site  are  Market  Street,  Van  Ness  Avenue  and  South  Van 
Ness  Avenue,  Potrero  Avenue,  9th  Street,  Byrant  Street,  and 
Folsom  Street  east  of  10th  Street.     In  addition,  Gough  Street, 
Franklin  Street,  Polk  Street,  Larkin  Street  and  Hyde  Street  pro- 
vide major  thoroughfare  access  to  the  site  from  north  of  Market 
Street. 

*Major  thoroughfares  and  secondary  thoroughfares  are  classifi- 
cations applied  in  the  Transportation  Element  of  the  San 
Francisco  Comprehensive  Plan, 


-  80  - 


SCALE  IN  FEET 

TRANSIT  PREFERENTIAL  STREETS 

TRANSIT  PREFERENTIAL  STREETS 

-  81  - 

Parking  Facility  for  Bonk  of  Amerlco  Data  Center  •  Son  Froncisco 


MiaHHH  MAJOR  THOROUGHFARE 

SECONDARY  THOROUGHFARE 
NO  RECREATIONAL  STREETS  IN  STUDY  AREA 


1 
I 

THOROUGHFARES 

82  - 

P  )rk  r-;,  i-  jC  Mty  for  Hankof  Air  -  ri  .o  ;    ;t'j  "^-nlcr  •  San  l-rancisco 


2.  Secondary  Thoroughfares* 

Secondary  thoroughfares  are  primarily  intra-district 
streets  of  varying  traffic  capacity  which  serve  as  collectors 
for  the  major  thoroughfare  system.     Folsom  Street  from  10th 
Street  to  Division  Street  and  Valencia  Street  are  the  only 
secondary  thoroughfares  in  the  parking  Facility  site  area. 

3.  Street  Characteristics 

Figure  6  presents  the  study  area  street  system  in 
schematic  form.     The  various  intersections  are  shown  along  with 
the  general  traffic  striping  pattern,  number  of  lanes,  direction 
of  traffic  flow,  peak-period  parking  restrictions,  and  bus  stop 
locations  in  the  study  area.     Ebccept  as  otherwise  noted,  all 
of  the  intersections  in  the  surrounding  area  are  traffic-signal 
controlled. 

The  streets  easterly  of  the  Parking  Facility  site  comprise 
a  developed  one-way  street  system.     Both  Howard  Street  to 
the  north  of  the  site  and  Folsom  Street  to  the  south  are  one- 
way streets,  with  the  transition  from  a  one-way  street  to  a  two- 
way  street  taking  place  in  the  city  block  between  11th  and 
12th  Streets.     Eleventh  and  12th  Streets  are  two-way  streets 
with  an  imbalanced  traffic  flow  adjacent  to  the  Parking  Facility 
site,  two  lanes  southbound  and  one  lane  northbound.  Kissling 
Street,  which  borders  the  site  on  the  north,  is  a  short,  narrow 
(22. 5-f oot-wide)  two-way  street  which  runs  from  12th  Street  to 
a  point  just  east  of  11th  Street. 

The  one-way  street  pattern, combined  with  intersecting 
street  angles  and  various  turning  movement  controls  in  the 
area  surrounding  the  Parking  Facility  site,  produces  a  depart- 
ing traffic  pattern  which  would  be  different  in  some  respects 
from  the  arriving  traffic  pattern. 

From  Figure  6  (Page      84 )  it  can  be  seen  that  there  is  a 
railroad  spur  track  which  runs  up  12th  Street  and  ends  just 
south  of  Kissling  Street.     This  trackage  is  part  of  what  was 

*See  footnote,  Page  80. 

-  83  - 


STUDY  AREA  STREET  SYSTEM 


-  84  - 


ParKing  Facility  for  Bank  of  America  Data  Center  San  Francisco 


DU 


BQC^ 


AVE. 


OT\S 


NESS  AVE. 


SOUTH 


U.S.IOI 

SB  ON        -  ~y 
U.S.IOl  ~  ''^^ 


NOTES 

ALL  INTERSEETIONS  SIGNAUZEO  EXCEPT  THOSE 
INDICATED  N.S. 

SOURCE- FIELD  SURVEY  BY  UNSCOTT  ASSOCIATES 
DEC.2a3,l975. 

N  S  7-9.  NO  STOPPING  7  -9  AM. 

NS4-6'  NO  STOPPING  4-6  PM. 

NS  AT-  NO  STOPPING  ANY  TIME. 

NS  7-9/4-6-  NO  STOPPWG  7-9A»il.4-6PM. 


6 


STUDY  AREA  STREET  SYSTEM 


-  8-1  - 


Parking  Facility  for  BOMli  of  AM«ri€«  09H 


once  the  main  line  of  the  Ocean  Shore  Railroad  and  also  contains 
a  siding  which  serves  the  bookbindery.   which  currently  occupies 
the  Parking  Facility  site.     The  trackage  is  presently  owned  by 
the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  and  is  maintained  and 
operated  by  the  Southern  Pacific  Transportation  Company.  The 
only  user  of  this  trackage  is  the  bookbindery,  and  proceedings 
will  be  undertaken  shortly  to  retire  the  12th  Street  track  north 
of  Harrison  Street*. 

C.     Bicycle  Routes 

1.     Existing  Bicycle  Routes 

Bicycle  routes  are  designed  to  allow  for  the  safe  and 
orderly  use  of  the  bicycle  as  a  means  of  transportation  and 
recreation.     They  connect  major  recreational  areas,  residential 
areas  and  major  work  centers  to  one  another.    While  separate 
riglits-of-way  are  desirable,  most  bicycle  routes  are  on-street 
and  consist  of  streets  either  marked  with  bicycle  lanes  or  un- 
marked streets  which  contain  only  "bike  route"  signs. 

There  are  no  existing  bicycle  routes  in  the  parking  Facility 
area.     There  is,  however,  an  existing  bicycle  route  which  has 
been  designated  and  signed  on  Grove  Street,  which  is  several 
blocks  to  the  north  of  the  site.     The  Grove  Street  route  begins 
at  Golden  Gate  Park  and  terminates  at  the  Civic  Center  Garage  at 
Grove  and  Polk,  with  bicycle  parking  being  provided  in  the  garage 
Bicycle  traffic  on  Grove  Street  is  one-way  eastbound  with  return 
traffic  being  routed  west  on  McAllister  Street. 

. 2.     Streets  Designated  as  Bicycle  Routes 

Figure  7  shows  the  streets  in  the  Parking  Facility 
study  area  which  have  been  designated  for  improvement  as  future 
bicycle  routes.     Bicycle  routes  have  been  designated  on  Market 
Street,  11th  Street,  Folsom  Street,  14th  Street  between  Valencia 
Street  and  Folsom  Street  and  South  Van  Ness  Avenue-Howard  Street 
between  14th  Street  and  11th  Street.     Immediately  outside  the 
study  area,  bicycle  routes  are  also  designated  on  Valencia  Street 
Bryant  Street  and  Brannan  Street. 

*Information  provided  via  telephone  from  Mr.  Paul  Burke t , 

California  Public  Utilities  Commission,  San  Francisco,  January, 
1976. 

-  85  - 


Parking  Facility  for  Bank  of  Annerica  Data  Center  •  San  Franctaco 


Ill    DISTRIBUTION  OF  VARIOUS  TRANSPORTATION  MODES 
A.     Automobile  Traffic 

1.  Existing  Counts 

Table  2  presents  a  compilation  of  vehicle  traffic  counts 
on  the  streets  which  serve  the  Parking  Facility  site  and  Table  3 
the  most  recent  free\>^ay  traffic  counts.     The  data  presented  in 
these  tables  has  been  tabulated  in  a  format  which  can  be  used 
in  both  the  air  quality  analysis*  (see  Appendix  B,  Page  131). 
and  the  traffic  impact  analysis  contained  herein.     The  traffic 
volumes  shown  in  Table  2  were  obtained  from  a  series  of  automatic 
machine  traffic  counts  made  especially  for  this  study.**  The 
freeway  count  data  was  provided  by  the  California  Department  of 
Transportation  (CALTRANS)  San  Francisco  office.    Presented  in  both 
tables    is  the  24-hour  traffic,  6:00-9:00  a.m.  peak  commuter 
traffic,  the  highest  eight  consecutive  traffic  hours  of  the  day, 
the  peak  hour  for  the  day  (highest  single  hour  traffic)  and  the 
AM  and  PM  peak-hour  traffic  volumes  by  direction.     Count  periods 
other  than  the  AM  and  PM  peak  hour  show  two-way  traffic  or  one- 
way traffic  on  a  one-way  street  except  as  noted. 

2.  Street  Capacity 

Tables  2  and  3  also  present  estimated  traffic  capacity  at 

Level  of  Service  D,  for  the  streets  which  provide  principal  access 
to  the  Parking  Facility  site- 

Capacity  can  be  defined  as  the  maximum  number  of  vehicles 
which  has  a  reasonable  expectation  of  passing  over  a  given 
section  of  roadway  in  one  direction  during  a  given  time  period 
under  prevailing  conditions.***    On  city  streets,  capacity  is 
usually  measured  at  an  intersection  with  other  streets  and  ex- 
pressed in  terms  of  vehicles  per  hour. 

*      Guidelines  for  Air  Quality  Impact  Analysis  of  Projects ;  Bay 
Area  Air  Pollution  Control  District;  San  Francisco,  Califor- 
nia; June,  1975. 

Counts  made  durin^^  week  of  December  1-5,   1975  by  Traffic 
Counter  Company,  Temple  City,  California,  91780. 

***  Source:     Highway  Capacity  Manual  -  1965;  Highway  Research 
Board,  Special  Report  87. 


-  87  - 


CB  > 


a, 


a. 


"5:- 


I  s 


C  O  C  I 
IC  c  c 

to  ^  ^ 


C  C  CO 

CO  t  X 


C  ^  — •  -rH 


CO]  Cl 
X  10    I?  X 


I-  (-     X  I- 


M  C 


I  I 

C  T 


X  X 


10  f^- 


X  X 


10  LO  1" 

w  \ 

c  to 

\ro  \ 

0]  \  01 


10  - 

-  X  ■/. 

X  ~ 


>,X  X 


CO  c 
C  C  I  c- 


CT)  [s.  tH 

C  LO  lO 


10  c  c  c 
T  ro  to  c 


01  to  to  r. 


C--  "  X 

to  c  i~ 


I-  10 


jJ  3  c 


01 

to 


XI  -H 

o 

—  9  ' 
-<  X 


/.  ^  r. 


C  C  C  O       O  Q 

T  O  O  C  I     O  O  I 

0]  th  th  c 

-  -  '  -  I      -  -  I 

OJ  (N  01  th  tH 


c  c  ccc  ccc 

X    ^.    04  <J>  X    lO  X  01 

to       t^^x  iD'^^, 


LO  C  ccc  LO  C  LO 
tH     |-     C  to  C  iO  rH 


to   -r     T   to  T  T 


ccc 

10  05  to 

to 

n 

CTi  Tl  3 

to 

X 

—      10      10         P  'r- 


t-      I-  T-  1> 


a  w  Msc  zx)0 


s  ^ 

10  c  c 

—  f  to 

XXX 

I     I  I 

i~  c  c 

—  to  to 


CO 
10 


1  - 


I  -  I- 


—  1^ 
^  — 


to     to  10 

I     I  I 


I-     l~  01 

I"     X  10 


XI-  ,H 

-  X 

-     -  ^ 

to     01  CM 


?     10  10 


10  I  ~  10 

t--  I-  (~ 

\  \  X 

\  \  \ 

01  01  01 


01 


O    '  r 

o  — '  X 

-  X  -r 

X  ^  —  ^ 

—  H-  O] 

E  -  _  - 

J  -M  <  ^ 

—  <  is  < 


LO 

c  c 

C  C  1 

tn 

•<t 

z 

to 

-  "  1 

r-i  th 

See 

C  ccc  CCC 
O        LO  CI    X  o  X 

th  ^  o   01  X  -I 


C  LO  C  C  CCC 
to    th  to  to    to  10  to 


10  C  LO  10  1~  10  LO 
O    X  1-  —  ^ 


a;  :2.  :c.  (-  r:  x  f- 
S   Use   z  X.  c 

r-  f- 


10  to 

LO  LO 

I  I 

c  c 

to  to 


to 

LO 


01 


I  I 


c  c 


c  to 


X  ;r 
to 


M  th 


to 


to  LO 

01  'H 

01  01 


a<io 


10  i. 


10  ^■ 
I  o 


E 
o 

'■J  ' 

o  c 


1)  -H 

qC  C 


00 

o 

faC 
03 

o 
o 

73 


> 


a; 


c 


O  3 


V.  -H 

o 

-H  O 

c  C 

c  ,r 


a;  z 


5"  " 

o 

O  i. 


■H  C 

3  « 

0)  X 

'S.  y 

-3  U 

•-  o 

•- 

0)  — 1 

■3 

o  o 

•c  ^ 

•t-' 

u.  a. 

CO 

E  -H 

o 

E  CO 

u 

se 

U 

r. 

^  o 

•H  03 

5  c. 

y 

O  E 

u  o 

CO  X 

■H  OJ 

C-H 

•H 

>  a. 

CO 

i-  X! 

y  o 

•H 

(D 

^ 

X  "C 

y  Q> 

^  3 

•H  ^ 

S  53 

+J 

^  CO 

^  3- 

o  o 

5 

+J  E 

-H 

CO  o 

2 

y 

O  JZ 

•H 

■p  a)  • 

>  y 

•5 

■H  t. 

•H 

=^ 

:s  c 

—  O 

> 

J  to 

CO 

O  -H 

'■J 

■H 

y 

o 

—  t_ 

S  3 

+-> 

E  3 

CO  0) 

-rJ  y 

C 

•H 

a; 

CO  +J  -H 

u 

O 

>^ 

C 

E  y  ^ 

■H 

+J 

-H 

3 

'H    OJ  (— 

■p  - 

CO 

CO 

C 

+J   CO  CO 

S 

<u 

y  s 

£ 

[y.  «  ^ 

CO  ^ 

1 

+-< 

O  y  +j 

C.  cC 

s. 

-p  ^ 

-tJ  3 

•H 

_Cfl  -H 

03 

3  H 

Z  •-  3 

<!!  E- 

oi  ■*■ 

to 

LO 

<S, 

o 

88 

3 

X 


•J  - 


CO 

«  > 


3 

tcp 
o 

c 

Su.> 


c  ^ 


o 


C    O  Q  O 

O    O  O  O  I 

in  00  o  ai 
-    ^  ^  I 

tC    M  Tt  oj 


c 

lO 

to 


coo 

C  '-I 

CJ  bO  «? 


O    O    O  lO 

to  to  o  1 1 


c 
c 


c  o  o  o 

C>    OJ  O)  o 


o 
to 


LO  ic  in 

'3"  '-I 


S    S    S  CQ  H 


Q.  c  a. 

to  to  -r 

i~  ir?  in 

J.  -i.  i 

to  t"o 


o  c  o 

LO  C 

to  00  o 

(M  T-i  rH 


coo 


to  o 

I  I 

c  c 

o  o 


c  c  c 

C]  o 

GO  ^ 

C    X  X 


o  o 
o  c 
in  in 


o  o 
to  o 


c  o 


o  c 
to  to 


03  ffl 


o8  0» 


03  CC 


o  c 
to  to 


LO  in 

I  I 

o  c 

to  to 


o  o 

LO  10 


c  o 


X  t? 


88 

X 


o  c  c 

O  d 

LO  ;2  O 


in  o  in 
to  <* 


(M  ^ 


coo 

O  X 

in  to  X 


coo 
to  c  o 


CQ  m  H 
W  IS  o 
H 


a 
in 


c 


to 


to  to  toto 

8 0  O  CO 

O  O  I  o  o 
X    ^  ^       M  •<* 


O  O  C  O  O  '"^  o  o  o  ^ 
to  xMt^  Scito  xt^in 
c  to  ^      crs  to  -r  to  ci 


o 
o 


inoo  oino  LOCO 

r^rOtO    tOrHC  'TtOO 


to     rt-rft     'TCN'T  rH^TT 


O  OCC  coo  COO 
^  toojc^  toi-^x  -rxo 
to  xt^to  xtocM  -.oin'-' 


o 
o 


coo  LOOC  COO 
OOO    THtOtO    to  to  10 


[S.   T-I   ^  [> 


03    03a2H    BQCQH  QCQH 

z  Wise  u:*o  zoio 

H  H  H 


IB 

o 
o 

X 

I 

o 
o 


a. 

to 

in 
I 

c 
to 


o 

LO 

I 

o 
o 


c 
o 

in 
I 

o 
o 


o 
to 


to 


LO 


^  ft 

ft  c 


7  ^ 


••  c 


ft 
o 
o 

I 


10 

I 

c 
c 


C  LO 


X  ^ 


to 

C 


LO  05 

to  o]  oa 


LO     LO  LO 

r- 

•\  \  \ 
a  o  cj 
\  to  \ 


0)  +j 

01  in 


i.   O  O 

saw 


Cl 


c-j  to 
ro  to 


LO 


to  to 

C]  Cl 


0)    .  . 

->-l 

+J  -<-J 


tC  X 


Cl 


0)  o 

-  z 

-p 

CO  c 

cn 

0) 

CO 


ri  X 
IT  ri 


o  c 

C  03 


O 

LO 


in  in 


01  Cl 


LO 

t- 


10 
Cl 


< 

•J. 
o 

+J  z 

3 

-  a 

■p  > 

X 


■s.  in 


o 

X 


C 

to 


c 

X 


o 
to 


io 

LO 

to 


to 

T-I 


->  X 

X 

c 

<r.  \ 

— I  X 


3 

in  t, 
SB 

CD  0) 


o  o 

Q  X 


O  -H 
5  3 

hC  C 
3 

•H  -H 


X 

faO 
CO 
CU 

6> 


a; 

X 


u  — 

X 

2  ^ 

■3  0 

i)  - 

-  >> 

♦J 

C3  i-> 

E  -H 

o 

u 

CJ 

X 

o 

3 

r^  ^ 

3  —( 

O 

ffl 

o 

c  i" 

i)  -rt 

CJ  U 

y  _o 

u 

—  CJ 

•H 

•p 

'■J 

-  X 

•H 

Cl 

X 

I-  >) 

o 

X  "3 

5 

«  5 

1-  ft 

-p  E 

♦J 

o 

ffl 

o  u 

3 

o  ^ 

>  y 

■p 

^  3  o 

> 

o 

o 

y  -p  -p 

o 

X 

C3  3  C 

■P  X 

c  3  3 

ffl  o 

•t-> 

u  c3  o 

—  -s. 

■p 

•p 

-p  y  ■- 

a: 

—  ffl 

a 

ffl  J= 

ft  m: 

1 

o 

a 

ffl 

CJ  ~ 

-  89  - 


'O  — 


CO  £ 
(0  > 


3 
C 
X 


fa£  > 
■1-1 


<  — 
I  ^ 


I  cfl 
CO  H 


CO        Q  Q        O  C 
C  O  I     O  O  I  CO 
I     <M  rf  CJ 


88 


CI  CJ 


to  OJ 


CJ 


CI 


o  c  o  o  c  c 

CJ  C]  05  ^  CJ  f- 
lO      X    LO  O  (O 


o  o  o  o  o  o 
X  c  n  ^ 
X)  X  T  in  C2 


mioio  oino  coc  cmc 
^"tT   0'<-'C   occ  c-^to 


ceo  occ  coc  occ 

T-i  —  t-i    OIthq    {£)       X;    X>  CC 

I- I -CI   thooc   toO'^  r^cm 


COLO  loioin  coc  coc 
torOrr    '^''trf    CtOO  toiorc 


C^^-t^       X'THX  (N-THrH 


3  03  H  a  cQ  E-  =: H  tn  cq  h 

^C/20    i^c/2C    /-'C/IO  ZCOO 
H  H  H  F- 


X 


C) 
CJ 


CJ 


CI 


0) 

m 

m  • 


3  <? 

o 


o 

lO 


c 
o 
to 

LO 

I 

o 
to 


l> 
to 


I 

o 


I 

o 


c 

X 
LO 


to 


CI 
CJ 


CJ 


10 

CD 


-^o 

C 
to 

CJ 


LO  LO 

10 

LO  LO 

10 

LO 

LO 

[- 

\ 

\ 

\ 

^  CJ 

CJ  -r 

CJ 

tH 

w 

CJ  CI 

\ 
CI 

w 
ci  CJ 

\ 
CJ 

\ 
CJ 

\ 

CJ 

CO 

c 


■M 

o 


O  O 

o  o 

X  X 


CJ    CJ  CJ 


o  o  o 

X  T  O 

■r^  in  o 

th  ^  CJ 


to  c  o 
to  to 


coo 

^  Tl  OJ 
T-l  10 


10   O  c 

TOO 


cQ  oa  CQ 
z  z  z 


a  c.  a 

LO  o  o 

rH  to  to 

IC  LO  lO 

I  I  I 

LO  c  c 

to  to 


occ 
X  f  tr> 
in  c 


I 

c 
o 


coo 

rr 

LO    to  O 

O 


to  [-  r- 

CI    X  '-O 


CJ    CJ  CI 


occ 
coo 

(5    rr  CJ 

CJ  o 


+j  to  to 

X 


c 
o 

CO 
0)  CO 

Sh  a: 


CO 
2 


X  o  o  o 
\  \  \ 
X  X  X 


o  o  c 
to  o  o 

X  rf 


CJ    CJ  CJ 


coc 

X  O)  T-i 
C5    to  o 


to 


occ 

CO  ^ 


in  in  c 

^    rr  o 


09  as  m 

XXX 


c  a 

C  LO 
to  rH 


I 

o 
to 


LO 

I 

c 
c 


coo 

X  O 

to  r~ 


CO  cn 


o 
o 


1  I' 


I 

o 
c 

o  (b' 


I 

c 
o 


c 


c  o 
X  tn 


o  o  o 

T    T  X 


ri   CJ  f. 


OCC 

occ 

o  c;  cr> 


in  in  LO 


CJ  •<-H 
\      \  \ 

CJ  ca  CJ 


OJ  CO 
X 

c 

+^  z. 
c 


X 


o 
\ 
z 


CO        LO  c 
^  C  I    to  O  I 
S_  ,    in  c^  , 


coo  occ 

CO  LO  T  to 
CO  in      to  CJ  LO 


LO  LO  LO  LO  LO  LO 
trj-  Ti  rH  — 


to  T  T     to  to  to 


occ  occ 

X  X)  CT)     to  rH  ;o 

to  to  X    CJ  CJ  T 


o  in  o   c  LO  in 

to       O     C  rH  rH 


oa  aa  H  a  oa  h 

z  X  o   z  X  o 


LO 


LO 

I 

LO 


c 
tn 


to 

C5 


LO 


CJ 


CD  o 
OJ  Cfl 

+J  O 
X  t, 

£  +J 


a 
in 


I 

10 


o 

LO 


a 

o 


LO 
I 

c 


Ci 


CO 

to 


LO 

\ 
rH 

\ 
CJ 


-a 
u 
CO 

I 

a: 


•* 

rH 

X 

o 

Cfl 

CO 

CO 

0. 

01 

rH 

dj 

>>  c 

01 

Xi  3 

Cfl 

LO  U 

CO 

Q 

C5  0) 

rH  ,H 

o; 

U 

u 

•H 

LO  U 

> 

1  m 

rH  j: 

OJ 

X 

U  CO 

CU  (U 

■e^ 

o 

E 

O 

r^ 

o  • 

0) 

«  o 

> 

Q  X 

o 

Cm  t1 

O  Oi 

<M 

o 

_ 

V  CO 

c 

0)  -H 

o 

•H 

+i 

bD  O 

■M 

C  <M 

c 

■M  -H 

•H  • 

!m 

3  Cfl 

<U  X 

XJ  U 

-o 

■p 

0)  ^ 

X!  >> 

o  o 

CO  +J 

Ci,  c. 

E  -H 

O 

cs 

Cfl 

Sh 

+J  o 

3 

Q  -1 

C  -H 

O 

cfl 

3  & 

O  E 

CJ  y 

u  01 

u 

•H  0) 

H 

•H 

>  c 

u 

Cm 

X 

•H  - 

Ch 

0) 

«H 

Cfl 

X  t; 

CO  CO 

+j 

t-H  CO 

o  o 

E 

■H 

oa 

o 

CO 

rH 

3 

« 

T! 

>  y 

•H  U  T3 

•H 

a;  i-, 

■p 

01  O 

> 

►J  CO 

cu 

O  -P  +J 

•H 

cu 

CO  C  O 

■p  Cfl 

E  3  C 

c 

CO  01 

■H 

O 

■H 

Cfl 

O  CJ  OJ 

>> 

•H  Cfl 

+J 

>i 

-fJ  O  -H 

Cfl 

■H  CO 

CO 

CO  -H  S 

0) 

y  s 

E«-  £ 

x: 

CO  x: 

1 

c  cu 

SiC 

a  bo 

a; 

-p  CO  £ 

■H 

cfl  -H 

c 

3  i.  +J 

X 

o  s 

o 

-j;  H  o 

rH 

CJ 

to 

01 
y 
u 

3 

O 
X 


o 
z 


-  90 


(M 

a 


Q 

0  in  , 

0 

in 

•H  X 

0 

0  «5 

0 

u 

00  10  ' 

(£) 

O"*  ' 

oo 

0 

ee 

#« 

rH 

& 

> 

Li 

000 

000 

0 

0 

(M  n 

rH  to  to 

OJ 

to 

o 

^  a  to 

T-t  OJ 

CSJ 

in 

000 

10 

in  0  0 

in 

in 

ro 

K)  to  n 

th  0  0 

rH 

to 't 

tH 

01  ^ 

rf 

to 

1— 1 

000 

0 

000 

0 

0 

0 

00  (£>  to 

00 

0  05  LO 

rH 

o 

> 

rH 

rH 

3C 

rH 

J*! 

O 

(D 

0  in  in 

10 

in  in  in 

0 

On 

CQ 

0 

"* 

»^  rH 

to 

to 

s: 

U 

000 

0 

0  XI  0 

■4; 

X 

rH  ^  tH 

TH  tH 

TH 

CQ  CQ 

□J 

ffl  ffl  Eh. 

X 

*^ 

Z  WO 

CO 

z  cc  0 

z 

u 

H 

« 

/ — s 

in 

0- 

■* 

P. 

Q. 

CO 

"u 

0 

0 

in 

0 

3 

to 

tH 

0 

rH 

to 

•  • 

rH 

•  • 

u 

10 

1 

in 

in 

00 

1 

in 

1 

1 

1 

0 

0 

0 

in 

0 

to 

0 

rH 

to 

rH 

l> 

to 

0 

to 

00 

to 

OJ 

rH 

to 

01 

Ci 

rH 

rH 

/ — s 

^ — \ 

a 

0 

a 

0 

p. 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

0 

CO 

0 

0 

0 

a: 

!U 

CO 

3 

1 

in 

in 

1 

in 

0 

0 

1 

1 

0 

1 

0 

0 

0 

0 

QL 

0 

0 

•• 

0 

•H 

05 

05 

rH 

05 

^  • 

«2 

0 

0 

0) 

05 

00 

rH 

to 

£ 

0 

03 

to 

OJ 

CO 

> 

■H 

to 

u 

•H 

0 

0 

0 

0 

05 

to 

00 

OJ 

OJ 

rH 

0 

0 

1 

;h 

01 

U 

0 

•H 

0 

0 

c 

0 

«H 

0 

00 

00 

0 

X  =H 

OS 

in 

05 

D- 

to 

1 

CO 

't 

Sh 

OJ 

rH 

rH 

0 

OJ  H 

LO 

in 

in 

in 

in 

l> 

r- 

i> 

i> 

OJ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

tH 

rH 

rH 

to 

ee 

\ 

\ 

\ 

\ 

Q 

CJ 

OJ 

OJ 

OJ 

OJ 

rH 

rH 

rH 

• 

to 

QO 

• 

O! 

• 

• 

• 

Cfi 

+-> 

3 

0 

C« 

3 

C/3 

-a 

0 

+J  E 

•H 

t; 

-P  -H 

0)  0 

u 

CO 

0)  w 

0)  U3 

U 

CO 

0  CA 

3 

Si  ^ 

CO 

0 

0 

+J  0 

X 

0 

X 

-p  s: 

■H 

CO  Ci, 

X 

+j 

0 

0 

0 

EC 

£  -p 

\ 

+J 

\ 

x:  \ 

0 

-p  «< 

Hi: 

z 

■p  :* 

0 

OJ 

-J 

rH 

CO 
CO 

tu 

^  3 


00 

0) 
faO 
CO 

o. 

a> 
o> 

CO 


a 

0 

•H 

> 

^  -C 

0) 

c/: 

ch 

0 

OJ 

u  • 

0  0 

> 

Q  CO 

Ch  rH 

0  o> 

en  cfl 

c 

0 

•p 

^£ 

+J 

bC  0 

•H 

3  Ch 

3 

•H  -H 

•P  • 

3  C8 

<U  00 

■0  0 

■3 

0)  - 

i< 

"3 

0  0 

CO  V> 

E  -H 

0) 

0 

K 

CO 

u 

■p  0) 

3 

Q*  -H 

3  >-( 

0 

CO 

3  & 

0  E 

u  0 

U  0) 

0 

•H  0) 

•H 

>  a 

u 

<^ 

■H  - 

tp 

>> 

C«  >l 

CO 

Cfl 

-p 

«-H  3 

c 

CO  CO 

«-n  Cfl 

0 

0 

3. 

0  c 

-P  E 

-H 

X 

u 

0 

0 

CO 

—* 

•p 

■H 

3 

4)  X 

Cp 

-a 

>  0 

<p 

Cm 

■H  t,  -a 

■H 

0 

+j 

CO 

(S 

-  0)  0) 

> 

J  CO 

0) 

Sh 

0  +->  -p 

■H 

0) 

0) 

-p 

■p 

CO  3  0 

•3 

•p  to 

E  3  3 

cfl  0) 

T3 

TJ 

0 

•H 

to 

3 

0  0  OJ 

3 

3 

■H  CO 

P> 

■p  >^ 

0 

0 

+J    0  -rH 

(0 

•H  CO 

CO 

X 

X 

Cfl  -H  5 

(U 

u  S 

X 

X 

E  <-i  C 

X 

CO  X 

1 

■p 

■p 

0  c-^  a> 

&c 

a  bc 

0 

3 

u 

V  CO  X 

■H 

CO  -H 

c 

0 

3  +J 

X 

CJ  X 

0 

CO 

z 

-a:  H  0 

rH 

OJ 

to 

X 

CJ 
3 

o 

CO 


-  91  - 


•a;  !h 
cn  CO 

I 


3  O 

0  E 
=  3 

1  -H 
—  O 
CI  > 


-p 

Q 

Q 

■H  X 

1 

Q 

Q 

Q 

o 

y 

\ 

1 

CM 

c£) 

(M 

03 

c  o 

GO  GO 

i-H 

CO  > 

<<..J  (—.^  w 

w 

3 

^  r\i  in 

rH 

to 

X 

> 

^  VJ 

. 

iC 

CO 

LO  in  LO 

o 

O 

in 

o 

o 

& 

CQ 

^  ^ 

o 

to 

o 

to 

s: 

L, 

to  ro  to 

to 

in 

a. 

to 

_  _ 
o  o  o 

^  ^ 

lO 

00 

Q 

O 

0^  lO  to 

in 

O 

> 

CO 

faC 

CU 

0) 

in  o  O 

1.0 

o 

in 

in 

in 

^  to  to 

o 

rH 

i>  o 

I> 

o 

X 

rf\  rn  ^ 
kw  U-l 

CQ 

m 

CQ 

CQ 

•H 

K  O 

o 

a 

H 

H 

in 

in 

in 

to 

rH 

3 

o 

oc 

00 

in 

X 

1 
1 

1 

1 
1 

1 

1 
1 

1 

3 

in 

O 

o 

in 

in 

LO 

O 

to 

rH 

rH 

rH 

to 

to 

o 

a, 

w 

03 

nTi 

uu 

O 

to 

to 

GO 

> 

to 

rH 

w 

3 

w 

o 

(C 

CD 

Si 

1 
1 

1 
1 

1 
1 

to 

to 

1 
1 

3 

\^ 

w 

1 

1 
1 

(r< 

o 

w 

X 

W 

•H 

l> 

rH 

a 

-p 

to 

<^ 

CU 

o 

to 

tc 

> 

■H 

m 

in 

;d 

CD 

o 


00 


o 

o 

O 

o 

o 

to 

cn 

CD 

o 

00 

-H 

oT 

C 

c 

z 

St 

CO 

o 

c 

■X) 

> 

•H 

CO 

CO 

0) 

to 

> 

CO  <U 

iO 

to 

x: 

o 

c 

c 

■H 

CO 

■*-> 

— f 

i)  c 

CO 

CO 

a> 

OJ  CO 

s: 

E 

s 

s- 

c 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

t,  CJ 

o 

in 

u 

■*■> 

;h 

t1 

•H 

0) 

Cm 

ch 

ft 

c 

O  +J  'H 

to 

c 

E 

£ 

o 

-H   C  O 

•H 

M 

CO 

CO 

E 

M  -H 

Sh 

CO 

L< 

CO 

*j 

0) 

Cfi 

1 

U 

1 

u 

CO 

+j  O  T3 

o 

ClH 

1 

Cm 

1 

<J 

3  \  C 

lU 

C-H 

c 

=M 

c 

Lo 

O  IB 

CO  Z 

o 

o 

O 

o 

IX 

in 
o 
o 
o 


o 


O 
O 
O 


ft 

O 

o 

CD 
I 

O 

o 


to 
o 
o 
l> 

in 

00 

to 
o 
o 
in 


CD 
CNJ 


o  o  o  o  o 
o  o  o  o  c 

O    CM    CD    X  00 


CO 

rH 

rH 

rH 

■H 

rH 

O 

o 

o 

o 

o 

to 

00 

to 

O 

in 

rH 

rH 

rH 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

to 

rH 

to 

to 

(J 

O 

o 

to 

o 

<^ 

to 

rH 

i-H 

rH 

rH 

o 

O 

o 

in 

o 

in 

to 

to 

to 

rH 

o 

i> 

00 

o 

O 


pa 


ft 

ft 

CO 

CO 

CO 

CO 

o 

o 

o 

in 

O 

in 

o 

o 

to 

O 

rH 

lO 

in 

00 

00 

CT! 

X 

1 

o 

1 

o 

1 

o 

1 

in 

1 

o 

1 

in 

o 

o 

to 

rH 

o 

00 

o 
o 


ft 
o 
o 

CD 
I 

o 
o 


o 

o 

o 

o 

to 

o 

CD 

cn 

o 

ft  ft   ft  ft 

o  o  o  o 

0  o  o  o 

in  to  to  to 

1  I  I  I 
o  o  o  o 
o  o  o  o 

l>  l>  [> 


to 


CD    O    O    O  O 
CD    OJ    CO  X 
CD    O  -H  to 


^  in  I>  CD  CD 
X 


to 
o 


o 

o 

o 

o 

CD 

in 

(N 

in 

-H 

to 

CJ 

o 

O 

o 

O 

O 

O 

o 

o 

o 

O 

X 

X 

X 

X 

o 

O 

Oi 

o 

Cl 

to 

iH 

CD 

o 

o 

X 

X 

CD 

-H 

rH 

CD 

l> 

X 

O 

r-{ 

CD 

in 

I 

u 
o 

CO  +J 

S  c 

d)  M 

o 

X 

O 

X  ^3 
C 

OJ  CO 
+J 

CO  j3 


to  u 

tn  C 

a>  o  CO 


CO 

c 

c  o 

X  -H 

-p 
u 

C  0) 

c  c 

•H  C 

-P  o 

O  !^ 

c 

3  a) 

►T)  bo 

-o 

O  -H 

^  03 


-P 

in 


o 


O 
4-> 


X 


ft 

E 
CO 
U 
I 

Cm 

<M 

O 


CQ  03 


ft  ft 
E  B 
CO  CO 


to 


3  c  >^ 

<U  CO 

to  S 
+j  cO 

C  +J  c 
3 

O 
CJ 

rH  3 

-H  O  CO 

•<   O  V 

ft  to 

•  E  CO 

O  CO  S 
y  u 

to  I  x: 

■H  Cm  y 

y  Cm  -H 

C  o  £ 

C0\  S 

u  c 

Cl,  O  +J 

3; 

C  •-  0) 

a}  •rf  u 

CO  P 

!J5  CO 
•-rH 

Sh  in 

-p  0) 

y  £  S 

•H  o  o 

-p 

-p  y  <M 
to  o 

•H  ft 

Q  C  S 


CO 


C  I 

o  c 

H  -P  CQ 

<;  to 

O  -P 
w  C  O 
3  Cm 
C  O 

o  y  -p 

•H  ft 

-P  0)  0) 

CO  c  u 

-P-H  X 

U  ^  (3) 
O 

ft  c  - 

to  -H  rH 
C  CO  I> 
CO  E  O) 
Ih  -H 

(0  - 

CH  :s 

O  0)  OJ 

+j  o 

<D  y 

e  o 
-p  • 

S-,  CO  T3 

CO  +J  C 

ft  3  CO 
OJ  3 

Q  O  t( 

y  0 

CO  X2 

•H  E 

c  CO  y 
-a  +J 

O  to  ft 
Cm  OJ  y  • 

■H    C  CO 
-H  -U 

CO  y  c  C5 

U  S  -H  rH 


3 

o 

CO 


CO 


c 

y 
E 
CO 

;h 

y 
CO 

CO 


CO 

z 

< 

CJ 


to 
CO 
I 


CO 

CO 

•H 

c 
;h 

o 

Cm 


CO 
CJ 

c 

o 

to 
y 
E 

3 

-H 
O 
> 


Cm 
Cm 
CO 
U 
H 


C75 


-P 
■H 

y 
C3 
ft 
C8 

(J 

CO 
I 


y 

bC 
CO 
ft 

y 
y 

to 


y 
y 

•H 
> 

y 

CO 
Ch 

o 

rH 

y  X 
> 

y  -p 
J 

o 

Cm  ft 

o  y 
c 

O  rH 

■H  CO 


■H  y 
c  y 

•H  ft 
Cm  CO 

y 

■a  -3 

in 

U  CO 
o  o 
Ci,  03 

JZ 
•  y 

Q  in 
CO 

y  y 
y  to 
■H  y 
>  DS 

Si 

y  >5 
CO  CO 

Ch  £ 

O  bC 


P  -H 

CO 

I 

>i 

-P  rH 

•H  CO 

y  3 

CO  3 
ft  CO 

CO  s: 
o 

CM 


Cm 

a  y 

M  -H 

-P  Cm 
Cm 

y  CO 

bO  U 
C  -P 
!0 

£  C 

y  -H 
y  to 

-P  01 

c  y 

•H  C 

y 

o  y 

^  C»i 

Ch 
•O  -H 
3  T3 
CO 

O 

O  +J 

X 

4; 
y  3 

-P  "O 
3 

o  -a 
a  y 

■p 

Cm  CO 
O  E 
•H 
£  -P 
+J  CO 

3  <U 
o 

to  -P 
o 

3 

CO 

S  CJ 
y  -H 
y  Cm 
Cm 
t.  CO 


3 

O 


y  c 
y  o 
E  -H 

O  -H  +-> 

!i  Q  CO 

Cm  y 
o 

•a  •  -H 

y  >> 
>  rH  y 
•H  c  to 
o  y 

0)  £ 

t;  — I  -p 


— <  X  CO 
y 
> 

y  in 


+J  O  CO 


to 
U 
to 


to 
y 

CO  -H 

I  to 

O  -H 

3  Sh 

+j  y 

-  y 

-p  CD 

c  u 

3  CO 

o  x: 

y  y 


E 
ft 
C 


in 
I 

o 


CO 
y 
ft 

y 
o 

y 
c 

3 

CO 

to 

CO 


y 

•H 
T3 


O 


•H 

y 
CO 
ft 

CO 

y 

■3 

y 
+-I 

CO 
E 


-p 

3  to 

o  y 


CO 
y 
ft 

•rr 


o 
H 

m 


-  92  - 


Level  of  Service  is  a  term  which  is  used  to  describe  pre- 
vailing conditions  and  their  effect  on  traffic.     Broadly  inter- 
preted, the  Level  of  Service  concept  denotes  any  one  of  a  number 
of  differing  combinations  of  operating  conditions  which  may  take 
place  as  a  roadway  is  accommodating  various  traffic  volumes. 
Level  of  Service  is  a  qualitative  measure  of  the  effect  of 
such  factors  as  travel  speed,  travel  time,  interruptions 
to  traffic,  freedom  to  maneuver,  safety,  driving  comfort  and 
convenience. 

Six  levels  of  traffic  service.  Level  of  Service  A  through 
Level  of  Service  F,  have  been  defined  in  the  Highway  Capacity 
Manual.     Level  of  Service  A  describes  a  condition  of  free  flow, 
with  low  traffic  volumes  and  relatively  high  speeds,  while 
Level  of  Service  F  describes  forced  traffic  flow  at  low  speeds 
with  occasional  stoppages.* 

Level  of  Service  C  is  the  service  level  which  is  most 
typically  associated  with  the  design  of  urban  traffic  facilities. 
At  Level  of  Service  C,  traffic  flow  is  stable  and  drivers 
begin  to  feel  restrictions  on  their  freedom  to  select  their  own 

travel  speed.    Maneuverability  is  also  affected  and  drivers 
ability  to  change  lanes  or  pass  is  somewhat  restricted,  but 
not  objectionably  so.     Occasionally  drivers  may  have  to  wait 
through  more  than  one  signal  cycle,  and  there  is  a  potential 
for  back-ups  to  develop  behind  turning  vehicles. 

Level  of  Service  D  represents  the  level  of  traffic  service 
most  often  encountered  in  urban  areas  during  the  peak  commuter 
travel  periods.    At  Level  of  Service  D,  traffic  approaches  un- 
stable flow,  travel  speed  is  affected  and  drivers  have  little 
freedom  to  maneuver.     There  may  be  substantial  delays  at  indiv- 
idual intersections  during  short  peaks  within  the  peak  travel 
period,  but  enough  cycles  with  lower  demand  occur  to  permit 
clearance  of  developing  queues,  which  prevents  excessive  traffic 
ba  ckup. ** 

*  Pages  80-81;  Highway  Capacity  Manual  -  1965. 
**Pages  81,  130;  Highway  Capacity  Manual  -  1965. 

-  93  - 


The  estimates  of  traffic  capacity  presented  in  Tables  2 
and  3  have  been  based  on  Level  of  Service  D  criteria,  as 
described  in  the  Highway  Capacity  Manual,  using  the  estimated 
per  lane  capacities  shown  below  and  also  specific  intersection 
approach  capacity  estimates  prepared  by  the  Department  of 
Public  Works . * 

Level  of  Service 

C  D 

Urban  Typical 

Design  Peak  Hour 

Value  Condition 

Capacity  per  lane  - 

multi-lane  street 

with  transit  use  600  700 

with  little  or  no 

transit  use  700  800 

Right-turn  only  lane  or  approach  650  800 

Capacity  per  lane  - 

two  lane  street 

(one  lane  each  direction)     800  1000 

The  estimated  capacities  per  lane  shown  for  the  multi- 
lane  street  with  transit  use  reflects  the  typical  values 
which  have  been  found  under  Level  of  Service  C  and  D  conditions.** 
On  those  streets  where  there  is  little  or  no  transit  use, 
estimated  capacity  has  been  increased  by  100  vehicles  per  hour 
to  account  for  the  absence  of  transit  vehicle  operation.  The 
values  shown  for  the  right-turn  only  condition  reflect  the 
estimated  capacities  for  special  turning  lanes  contained  in  the 
Highway  Capacity  Manual.***     Similarly,  the  estimated 
capacities  for  the  two-lane  streets  also  reflect  Highway 
Capacity  Manual  criteria  which  sets  an  upper  limit  of  1500 
vehicles  per  hour  for  a  single  lane  of  traffic  moving  away 
from  a  stop.**** 

*      Letter  to  Mr.  Ralph  Gigliello,  Department  of  City  Planning 
from  Mr.  William  Marconi,  Senior  Traffic  Engineer;  dated 
December  3,  1976. 

**     Transportation  and  Traffic  Engineering  Handbook;  Institute 
of  Transportation  Engineer;     1976;     page  338. 

***  Page  139;     Highway  Capacity  Manual- 1965. 

****Page     78;     Highway  Capacity  Manual- 1965. 


-  94  - 


Figures  8  and  9  prevsent  the  existing  AM  and  PM  peak 
hour  volume-capacity  relationships  for  the  principal  arrival 
departure  routes.     From  Figure  8  (Page  96),  it  can  be  seen  that 
current  AM  peak  hour  traffic  exceeds  capacity  (at  Level  of 
Service  D)  on  eastbound  Folsom  at  9th  and  on  eastbound  14th 
Street  at  Mission.     Similarly,  looking  at  Figure  9  (Page  97)  it 
can  be  seen  that  existing  PM  peak  hour  traffic  exceeds  Service 
Level  D  capacity  on  westbound  Harrison  at  11th  and  on  south- 
bound South  Van  Ness  at  13th-Duboce. 

3.     Veliicle  Traffic  Generated  by  Project 
Table  4  presents  the  traffic  which  would  be  gener- 
ated by  the  Parking  Facility  based  on  projected  employee 
arrival  and  departure  patterns  by  the  Bank  of  America*  and 
on  the  1985  modal  splits  contained  in  the  final  EIR  for  the 
Data  Center.**     The  generated  traffic  volumes  which  are  shown 
have  not  been  adjusted  for  absentees  and  therefore  represent 
a  day  when  all  employees  would  be  present  for  work.  Twenty- 
four-hour  shuttle  bus  service  between  the  Parking  Facility 
and  the  Data  Center  has  been  assumed,  and  it  has  been  further 
assumed  that  half  of  the  employees  who  would  arrive  and  depart 
during  the  normal  daylight  hours  (7:00  a.m. -5: 00  p.m.)  would 
walk  the  tliree  blocks  to  the  Data  Center  building. 

The  Parking  Facility  would  generate  3,600  employee 
vehicle  trips  and  620  shuttle  bus  trips  on  an  average  weekday 
for  a  total  of  4,220  vehicle  trips.     Generated  traffic  during 
the  morning  peak  traffic  hour  (which  would  also  be  the  peak 
traffic  generation  hour  for  the  project)  would  be  630  vehicle 
trips  (450  arriving  and  180  departing).     During  the  afternoon 
peak  on-street  commuter  traffic  hour,  the  Parking  Facility 
would  generate  485  veliicle  trips  (375  departing  and  no 
arriving) . 

*  San  Francisco  Data  Center-1985,  Report  of  Arrival  and  Departure 
Times;   Hank  of  America  Data  Center  Project  Office,  April  29, 
1974.     Distribution  of  arriving  and  departing  employees  used 
in  traffic  generation  projection. 

** Volume  Two,  Page  B-31.,  EIR,  EE  74.128,     August  28,  1975 


-  95  - 


O  400 
SCALE  IN  FEET 


♦  TRAFFIC    COUNTS    MADE    Bv    TRAFFIC  COUNTER 
COMPANY.    DECEMBER  1-5.  1975. 

•  ESTIMATED  TRAFFIC  CAPACITY  BY  DEPARTMENT 
OF  PUBLIC  WORKS.  CITY  AND  COUNTY  OF  SAN 
FRANCISCO  i   LINSCOTT.  LAVt    S  GREENSPAN. 


NOTE  A: 

TRAFFIC  CAPACITY  NOT  ESTIMATED- 
INTERSECTION  IS  UNCONTROLLED. 


8 


50^ 


NOTE 

eastbound  street  over  capacity 

4^  Indicates  location  and  direction 
described. 


VOLUME-CAPACITY  RELATIONSHIPS 
EXISTING   AM  PEAK  HOUR 


-  96  - 


Parking  Focility  tor  Sank  of  America  Opto  C«nt«r  •  Sqn  Ffoncitco 


O  400 
SCALE  IN  FEET 


SOURCE 

TRAFFIC   COUNTS     MADE  BY    TRAFFIC  COUNTER 
COMPANY,    DECEMBER    1-5,  1975 

ESTIMATED  TRAFFIC  CAPACITY  BY  DEPARTMENT 
OF  PUBLIC  WORKS,  CITY  AND  COUNTY  OF  SAN 
FRANCISCO.    LINSCOTT,   LAW    a  GREENSPAN. 


NOTE  A: 

TRAFFIC  CAPACITY  NOT  ESTIMATED" 
INTERSECTION  IS  UNCONTROLLED. 

^  Indicates  location  and 
direction  described. 


9 


VOLUME- CAPACITY  RELATIONSHIPS 
EXISTING   PM  PEAK  HOUR 


-  97  - 


ParKing  Facility  for  Bank  of  America  Data  Center  •  San  Francisco 


>^  o 

03  -H 

+j  o  cd 
o  i  ;h 

Eh  H  H 


cfl 

o 
H 


U 
OS 

a 

(D 
Q 


5  CQ 
CO 


cu 
o 

O 
1—1 


> 

•H 


CO 
o 

H 


0 

0) 

o 

ft 


o 

CM 
CI 


o 

CM 


o 
to 


o 
o 

00 


o 

CM 


O 
rH 

to 


O 

o 

00 


u 
o 
I 


o 

oo 

O  lO 

CMlO 

to  00 

O 

00  <M 

CD 

tHtH 

in 

OlO 

o  in 

CD 

00  CM 

00  o 

to 

00 

tH  to 

lO 

OlO 

o  in 

to  CD 

to  CM 

o 

OO 

o  o 

lO  CD 

LO  lO 

to 

O  CD 

1— 1  to 

lO 

O  lO 

o  o 

lO 

CM 

lO 

CD 

d  lO 

OlO 

O  lO 

lO 

to  CD 

to  OJ 

lO 

•rH 

CO 

o 
o 

o 
I 

o 
o 

•  • 

CD 


o 

O  O 

o 

lO 

o 

iH  CD 

CM 

00 

CD 

00  rt^ 

• 

• 

ft 

o 

^o 

• 

•    •  • 

E  CD 

•  • 

•  1 

S  ft 

CO  O 

o  • 

to 

O  CO 

o  •• 

CO  •• 

O  lO 

-H  O 

1 

D  rH  O 

Sh  00  O 

O    1  •• 

P  1  to 

K  O  O 

o  o  •• 

O 

K  O  ''t 

^  to 

O  O 

•H 

•H  CD 

ch  O 

W  4->  CD 

O  ^ 

<Ji  o  u 

u  o  ^ 

O  O  1 

O  1 

X  u  c 

biDCU  O 

CO  ft  O 

•H 

OJ 

ft 

0)  o 

• 

-P  O  .fl 

>^ 

-p 

•H 

C  ch  CO 

1— 1 

•H  cfl  +J 

•H 

Sh  o 

u 

3  +^  0> 

CO 

-p 

>^  cfl  cc 

bO 

C 

•H  ft  O 

•H 

(H  ^ 

^ 

•H  in  4-> 

O  O 

CO 

CO  c 

ft 

CO  o 

o 

be  P  CO 

o 

C  O 

CO 

 1  <^ 

•H  ^  S 

ft 

^  P 

Sh  CJ  iH 

Cfl  -H  O 

o 

ft  M-i  > 

LO 

00 

Cfl  o 

O  -H 

CO  -P  ch 

O  <+H 

Ul 

ft  Cfl 

O 

O  >  Sh 

ft 

-H  -P 

o 

ft+J 

(• 

ft 

o  c 

• 

Cfl 

?^ 

CO  U 

cu 

C  in 

u 

0)  O  13 

CO 

-POO 

CL> 

CO 

0) 

-P 

^  -P  C  +J 

CO 

0)  ^  O 

•H 

C  faC 

CO 

o 

C 

bo  a>  Q 

0) 

O 

CO  ^ 

O  H->  CO  -p 

•H  CO  ^ 

o 

Ch  0) 

0) 

•H 

^  x;  Sh 

> 

MH 

cfl  bc  ;3 

U-r^  O 

a» 

CO 

H  ^  £ 

CO 

H 

II 

II 

-P 

+-> 

O 

;h 

0) 

-p 

m 

o 

1 

ft 

o 

H 
O 


The  Parking  Facility  is  intended  to  meet  the  demand 
generated  by  swing  and  midnight  shift  employees  who  are  more 
dependent  on  auto  travel  than  day  shift  employees  (due  to  the 
limited  transit  service  offered  in  the  evening  and  after 
midnight).     This  would  result  in  a  number  of  day  shift  employees 
who  would  not  be  able  to  use  the  Parking  Facility  due  to  the 
need  to  reserve  spaces  for  swing  shift  employees  who  would  be 
arriving  before  the  day  shift  departed. 

B.    Pedestrian  Traffic  Generated  by  Project 
Even  though  shuttle  bus  service  between  the  Parking 
Facility  and  the  Data  Center  would  be  provided,  there  would 
be  pedestrian  traffic  generation.     The  Parking  Facility  would 
be  a  three-block  walk  from  the  Data  Center,  and  pedestrian 
traffic  during  normal  daylight  hours  could  be  anticipated. 
On  this  basis,  we  have  assumed  that  half  of  the  employees 
arriving  and  departing  between  the  hours  of  (7:00  a.m.  and 
6:00  p.m.)  would  walk  the  relatively  short  distance  between 
the  Parking  Facility  and  the  Data  Center.     This  would  amount 
to  1,450  pedestrian  trips  a  day.    Morning  peak-hour  pedestrian 
traffic  would  amount  to  430  pedestrian  trips  and  peak  after- 
noon traffic  330  pedestrian  trips.     This  is  based  on  the  assumption 
that  one-half  of  the  day  shift  employees  would  walk  and  one- 
half  would  take  the  shuttle  bus.     One-half  of  the  other  daytime 
arrivals  have  also  been  assumed  as  pedestrians.     Under  inclement 
weather  conditions  pedestrian  traffic  would  be  reduced  and  the 
number  of  shuttle  bus  users  increased. 

IV      ENVIRONMENTAL  IMPACTS 
A.     Transit  Impact 

The  impact  on  transit  which  would  result  from  the  Park- 
ing Facility  would  involve  the  conflict  of  generated  traffic 
\*^ith  the  operation  of  existing  transit  lines  in  the  surround- 
ing area.     The  Parking  Facility  entrance  and  exit  would  be 
located  on  12th  Street.     There  are  no  Muni  lines  operating  on 
12th  Street  at  this  time,  and  hence  there  would  be  no  conflict 
between  traffic  entering  and  leaving  the  parking  Facility  and 
transit  vehicles  on  12th  Street. 


-  99  - 


From  Figures  10  and  11  (pages  101  and      102 )  it  can  be 
seen  that  generated  Parking  Facility  traffic  would  be  distrib- 
uted to  the  several  streets  which  carry  both  transit  vehicle 
traffic  and  Parking  Facility  traffic.     Table  5,  Page  103,  pre- 
sents Muni  vehicle  traffic  during  the  AM  and  PM  commuter  peak 
hours  on  the  streets  which  serve  the  site  area.     The  pattern  of 
generated  AM  and  PM  peak  commuter  hour  Data  Center  employee 
traffic  to  and  from  the  Parking  Facility  would  produce 
relatively  light  volumes  on  the  streets  which  would  carry  both 
transit  vehicle  and  parking  facility  traffic.     The  Market 
Street  Muni  volume  contains  streetcar,  motor  coach  and 
trolley  coach  traffic.     Present  plans  call  for  all  streetcar 
traffic  to  be  ultimately  moved  underground  as  part  of  the  over- 
all Muni  improvement  program.     This  would  reduce  current  Muni 
transit  vehicle  traffic  on  Market  Street  by  one-half. 

B.     Traffic  Impact 

1.     Impact  on  Street  System 

Existing  development  on  the  1.2-acre  Parking  Facility  site 
consists  of  a  three-story  bookbindery  and  a  one-story 
industrial  building.     Analysis  of  the  traffic  generation 
data  for  industrial  uses  contained  in  the  CALTRANS  9th 
Progress  Report**  shows  an  average  vehicle  trip  generation 
per  acre  of  86  vehicle  trips  a  day.     This  generation  rate 
appears  to  be  appropriate  to  current  on-site  development  and 
would  produce  an  estimated  100  vehicle  trips  a  day.  Peak 
commuter  hour  traffic  generated  by  an  industrial-type  develop- 
ment typically  accounts  for  15  percent  of  the  day's  traffic. 
On  this  basis,  we  estimate  that  existing  on-site  development 
produces  15  vehicle  trips  during  the  AM  peak  commuter  hour 
and  15  vehicle  trips  during  the  PM  peak  commuter  hour. 
The  Parking  Facility  would,  therefore,  generate  a  higher  volume 
of  24-hour  traffic  and  peak  commuter  hour  traffic  than  existing 
development . 

*  Information  provided  via  telephone  from  Mr.  Maurice  Ittig, 
San  Francisco  Municipal  Railway,  January  18,  1977. 

**Tables  8-10,  9th  Progress  Report  on  Trip  Ends  Generation 
Research  Counts;  CALTRANS,  District  04;  San  Francisco; 
July,  1974. 

-  100  - 


SCALE  IN  FEET 

PARKING     FACILITY  TRAFFIC 
AM  PEAK  COMMUTER  HOUR 

(7=00-8  OO  AM) 

-   101  - 


Parking  Facility  for  Bank  of  America  Data  Csntar  •  San  Froncitco 


SCALE  IN  FEET 

PARKING    FACILITY  TRAFFIC 
PM  PEAK   COMMUTER  HOUR 

(4:30-5:30  PM) 

-  102  - 


Parking  Facility  for  Bonk  of  America  Data  Center  •  San  Francisco 


Table  5 

COMMUTER  PEAK  HOUR  MUNI  TRANSIT  VEHICLE  TRAFFIC 


Number  of  Muni 

Transit 

Vehicles 

street 

AM  Peak 
Commuter  Hour 
Inbound  Direction 

PM  Peak 
Commuter  Hour 
Outbound  Direction 

Bryant  Street 
S/o  Division 

35 

31 

Folsom  Street 
E/o  llthl 
S/o  14th2 

20 

5 

Harrison  Street 
E/o  llth2 
E/o  14th2 

14 

5 

Howard  Street 
E/o  South  Van  Ness 

20 

17 

Market  Street 
E/o  South  Van  Ness 

144 

161 

Mission  Street 
E/o  11th 

Bet  South  Van  Ness-llth 
S/o  13th 

44 
68 
44 

56 
56 
44 

South  Van  Ness 
S/o  Market 
S/o  13th 

24 
20 

17 
17 

9th  Street"*^ 

10 

12 

11th  Street 
Bet  Miss ion- Howard 
Bet  Howard-Folsom 
Bet  Folsom-Harrison 
Bet  Harrison- Bryant 

24 
44 
24 
24 

17 
17 
17 

26 

Source:     7-9  a.m.,  4-6  p.m. 

Figure  3  page  77. 

headway  data  Table  1  page  79 

and 

■''One-way  street. 
2 

Outbound  Muni  traffic  only. 

-  103  - 


The  Parking  Facility  v/ould  have  its  greatest  impact  on 
the  street  system  during  the  PM  peak  commuter  hour.  While 
arriving  AM  peak  commuter  hour  traffic  is  slightly  higher 
than  departing  PM  peak  commuter  hour  traffic,  evening  traffic 

on  the  streets  which  serve  the  site  is  higher  overall  than 
morning  traffic. 

The  impact  of  PM  peak  commuter  hour  traffic  ha«  been 
analyzed  using  a  distribution  of  commuter  vehicle  trips  based 
on  the  findings  of  the  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  survey  of 
Data  Center  employees  conducted  in  1974.     Figure  11  (Page  102) 
shows  the  resulting  PM  peak  commuter  hour  distribution  of 
Parking  Facility  traffic. 

Table  6  presents  the  volume-capacity  analysis  of  depart- 
ing PM  peak  commuter  hour  Parking  Facility  traffic  on  the 
major  departure  routes  which  serve  the  area.     Projected  non- 
Parking  Facility  traffic  has  been  determined  using  the  current 
traffic  volume  data  contained  in  Table  2  (Page      88)  as  a  base 
and  expanding  these  volumes  by  an  average  annual  traffic  growth 
rate  of  1.5  percent  per  year*.     The  volume-capacity  analysis 
has  been  made  for  the  year  1988,  which  is  the  year  when  the 
850 -space  Parking  Facility  would  be  fully  utilized  as  intended 
(swing  shift-midnight  shift  parking  demand  equal  to  parking 
space  supply).     Also  included  in  the  non-Parking  Facility 
traffic  projection  is  the  departing  traffic  which  would  be 
generated  by  the  Data  Center  and  its  on-site  parking. 
(See  Data  Center  EIR  (EE  74.128)  Page  B-51  to  B-53).  Estimated 
traffic  capacities,  at  Level  of  Service  D,  have  also  been  taken 
from  Table  2. 

From  Table  6  (Page    105)  it  can  be  seen  that  capacity 
conditions  (at  Level  of  Service  D)  would  not  be  experienced  on 

*Same  assumed  traffic  growth  rate  used  in  Data  Center  EIR 
(EE  74.128)  page  B-52.    Verified  for  current  conditions  by 
telephone  with  Mr.  Scott  Shoaf ,     Department  of  Public  Works, 
January    20,  1977. 


-  104  - 


I 

<U  -H 

BOO 
3  cd  -H 

o  (fl  cd 
>  o  « 


to 

a 


o 

•H 

> 

CC  CC  (D  O 

H  o  c/2 


s 

•H 


■H 


iH 

CC 

O 


;h 

i 

£ 
o 
o 


O  cC  -H  -H 
0)  CL,  rH  =H 

•O  I  -H  =H 
O  C  O  CC 
O  CC  ;h 

0^  Z  H 


T3 
O 

CC 

0) 

c 
o 
a 


•H 

CC 


CC 
O 


Sh 
0) 

-p 

1 

O 
O 


c 
o 

•H 

o 

•H 

Q 


o 

CC  +J 
•o  ft  3 
CC  Qi  O 
S  Q  OS 


o 


lO 

CO 

o 

to 

to 

00 

CD 

to 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

• 

O 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

o 

O 

O 

O 

o 

o 

O 

O 

O 

o 

1— 1 

lO 

Ol 

rH 

to 

to 

lO 


CC 
0) 

c 

CC 
> 


o 

CO 


o 
to 


o 


CQ 


o 

lO 


o 


2 


CQ 


-p 
an 


o 

CC 
O 


-P 

Si 
-p 


to 


c 

o 

•H 

CC 
CC 
•H 


CC 
CC 
0) 

CC 
> 


o 
to 

00 


lO 


CQ 
C/2 


lO 

to 


o 

<M 


02 


O 


-p 

in 

CC 


CO  • 

-P  CO 

c 

CC  ^ 

>^+> 
U  (Ji 
CQ 


CO 

o 


-p 
c 

CC 


+^  E 
CO  o 

CO 

+J  o 
CM  CiH 


O 
O 
O 


o 

o 

O 

O 

lO 

O 

o 

l> 

lO 

rH 

to 

l> 

l> 

o 

o 

<^ 

to 

rH 

lO 

lO 

rH 

rH 

rH 

(M 

O 

O 

O 

O 

O 

O 

O 

o 

to 

00 

O 

lO 

to 

l> 

to 

cq 

00 

OJ 

iH 

o 


CQ 


-P 
CO 


CC 
o 


o 
CC 

Ph 

:s 

O 


o 

•H 

CC 

•p 

;h 
o 


(Si 

o 


0 

b£) 
CC 
Oh 


CD 

•H 

<D 
CO 


O 
-P 

cd 

u  - 

00 
00 


o 
-p 

o 
o 

•O 

o 
a 


00 
CO 


4^  U 
faC-P 


CC 
+J 
cC 
Q 

o 

cC  O 
U  CO 

> 


faO  CO 
CC  CO 

CC 


0) 

CC 

C! 
•H 

T3 
O 

+J 
fl 
O 
CO 
O 
U 

o 

•H 

«H 
«H 

CC 

;h 
+j 

-p 
o 
a> 

+^ 

CO 


o 

•H 

'+H 
CC 
U 

;h 

-p 
c 

o 

CC 
-p 
CC 
Q 


iH  0) 
•H  +J 

•r-3 
>^  O 

•H  a 
fH  • 

•H  CC/^ 

O  p  to 

CC  fH  lO 
^  Ph 


lO 


c 
o 

CM 


U  O 
CC  +J 

o 

lO 

a»  ci 
a 

C  CC 

o 

CD  00 

ao] 


CC 

0)  to  • 

>5  • 

x:  «H  H 


0) 
•H 

> 
o 

CO 

Ch 
O 


0) 

> 

CO 

•H 

O 
CC 

& 
o 

O 
•H 

«H 
«H 

CC 
U 

T3 

0) 
+J 
CC 
B 

•H 
+J 

CO 


00 

CO 


0) 
CC 

On 


OJ 
0) 

CC 
Eh 


S 
O 
U 

to 


T3 
0) 
•  -H 
>><H 
■P  -H 
•H  O 
U  (D 
C8  ft 

a  w 

CO 

O  +J 
CO 

13 

O  CO 

^  c 

CO  O 

S  -H 
•H  +J 
+J  -H 

CO  T3  • 

O  CO 
+  O  -H 

CO 

•H  +^  iH 
•H  CO 
O  C 

CO  cO  CO 
H  CO  CO 

O  -H 

CO  -P 
0) 

ffi  -P  Sh 

CO  O 
O  CH 
0)  -H 
+j  T3  Q 
C 
•H 


1^ 


u 

o 


3 

E 
E 

O  U 
O  CD 


<D 
O 
H 
> 

-P  u 

CO  O 

<D  CO 

bO«H 
O 

O  ^ 
Q 

^  O  > 
CO  O  0) 

+^ 

O  ^  w 

II  o 


CI. 


o  o 

•H  -H 

cC  CO  CO 
o 

>^  >5-H 
-P  'H 
•H  -H  <H 

0  y  CO 
CO  CO  ;h 
a  a-p 

CO  CO 
o  O  ch 

1  I  o 


E 
3 


E 

^  rH  > 

O  O  O 
>  >  ^ 


■P  • 

CO  C 

+J  o 

-P  CO 
CO  o 
Ti  CO  O 

ch  ;^ 
(0  CO 

ox: 

<H  -P-p 
X5  -H 
CO  O.H 
-P  +^-H 

<J 

(D  O  CO 
>  3Ci, 
O  T3 
XJ  faO 
CO^^C 

CO 

p  a 
?  y 
o  boo 
xi  cox: 
coa+j 

•H 

«H  CD-P 
COpH  p 

+J  CO  O 
H  CO 

P  T3 
O  O  CO 

x:-h 

^«h-P 
O  COcO 

p 

E 

E  xJ'd 

O  <DP 
O-PCO 
CO 

CO  00) 
CD  P+J 
a<D;3 
faCO 

;^  u 
coo 

bD+JSn 
P  OP 
•H+J+J 

-p  ;h 
;h  pec 

cC  cCft 

Phx:o 

0+JT3 

o;h 

T3  ^hO 

o 

+j  Ecfl 
CO  S 
;h  o 

0-P>i 
P  -H 
O  DC 
O  PO 


O 
2 


-  105  - 


the  major  departure  routes  which  would  serve  Parking  Facility 
traffic.     Thirteenth  Street  at  Mission  Street,  however,  would 
be  approaching  capacity  operation.     Tenth  Street  at  Bryant 
Street  and  12th  Street  at  Folsom  Street  would  also  be 
approaching  capacity  operation  at  Level  of  Service  D  with 
volume  capacity  ratios  of  greater  than  0.90. 

Using  the  results  of  the  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates  employee 
survey* ,  and  assuming  that  the  distribution  of  future  Data 
Center  employee  home  locations  would  be  generally  the  same 
as  determined  in  the  1974  survey,  we  estimate  that  35  percent 
of  the  traffic  which  would  be  generated  by  the  Parking  Facility 
during  the  PM  peak  commuter  hour  would  use  the  freeway  system. 
Of  these,  20  percent  would  be  destined  for  areas  in  the  East 
Bay  (Alameda-Contra  Costa  Counties)  and  15  percent  south 
towards  the  Peninsula  (San  Mateo  and  Santa  Clara  Counties). 
This  would  amount  to  the  following  departing  Parking  Facility 
traffic  during  the  PM  peak  commuter  hour  being  added  to  the 
freeway  system,  which  is  already  at  capacity  operation  in  the 
downtown  area.     (See  Table  3,  Page  92). 


*Gruen,  Gruen  &  Associates  survey  of  2,190  employees  of  the 
existing  Bank  of  America  Data  Center;     September,  1974. 


To  East  Bay  via  Interstate  80 
To  Peninsula  via  US  101  


85  vehicle  trips 
65  vehicle  trips 


Total  Freeway  Traffic  (Year  1988) 


150  vehicle  trips 


-  106  - 


2.     Impact  on  Neighborhood  Streets 

The  neighborhood  streets, that  are  not  a  part  of  the  thorough- 
fare system  which  would  be  impacted  by  Parking  Facility 
traffic  would  be  11th  Street,  12th  Street  and  Kissling  Street. 
Land  use  on  both  11th  and  12th  Streets  is  essentially  industrial 
or  commercial  in  nature.     However,  on  the  one-block  segment  of 
Kissling  Street  (between  11th  and  12th  Streets)  there  are  a 
number  of  residential  dwellings  in  addition  to  existing 
industrial  uses. 

Table  7  presents  an  analysis  of  24-hour  neighborhood  street 
traffic  and  shows  the  increase  in  traffic  over  the  normal  anti- 
cipated traffic  growth  rate  plus  Data  Center  traffic  which 
would  result  from  the  addition  of  generated  Parking  Facility 
traffic.     Existing  traffic  data  has  been  expanded  and  Data 
Center  traffic  added  in  the  same  manner  as  the  PM  peak  commuter 
hour  traffic  figures  shown  in  Table  6  (Page  105). 

Table  7 
NEIGHBORHOOD  STREET  TRAFFIC 

 24-Hour  Traffic  Volume  

ProJected"*^  Generated 


Street 

Non-Parking  Parking 
Facility  Facility 
Traffic  Traffic 

Traffic^ 
Increase 

11th  Street 

S/o  Howard 

8,020 

485 

1.06 

N/o  Folsom 

11,210 

380 

1.03 

12th  Street 

S/o  Howard 

2,820 

1,805 

1.64 

N/o  Folsom 

4,610 

2,310 

1.50 

Kissling  E/o 

12th  Street 

360^ 

105: 

1.29 

Source:     Automatic  Machine  Traffic  Count  tapes;  Traffic  Counter 
Company,  December  1-5,  1975.     Two-way  traffic  estimated  from 
directional  intersection  counts  and  expanded  by  1.5  percent 
per  year  average  annual  growth  rate  to  the  year  1988.  Generated 
Data  Center  traffic  (See  EIR  EE  74.128)  also  added  to  projected 
traffic  volume. 

Traffic  Increase  =  (Projected  Non-Parking  Facility  traffic  + 
Generated  Parking  Facility  traffic)  +  Projected  Non-Parking 
Facility  traffic. 

"Negligible  growth  of  Non-Parking  Facility  traffic  assumed. 


-  107  - 


From  Table  7  it  can  be  seen  that  Parking  Facility  traffic 
would  impact  11th  Street.     However,   the  Parking  Facility 
would  produce  a  greater  increase  in  24-hour  traffic  on  12th  Street 
than  on  11th  Street.     This  traffic  increase,  when  expressed 
in  terms  of  PM  peak  commuter  hour  traffic,  would  result  in 
near  capacity  conditions  (at  Level  of  Service  D)  on  south- 
bound 12th  Street  at  Folsom.(See  Table  6,  Page     105).  It 
should  also  be  noted  that  the  generated  Parking  Facility  traffic 
shown  in  Table  7  does  not  add  up  to  the  4,220  vehicle  trips 
shown  in  Table  4  (Page       98).     This  is  due  to  the  fact  that 
some  generated  vehicle  trips  are  on  more  than  one  of  the  street 
segments  shown  in  Table  7. 

Kissling  Street  would  carry  only  shuttle  bus  traffic  (See 
Figure  12)  and  would  not  be  affected  by  Data  Center  employee 
traffic  arriving  and  departing  the  Parking  Facility.     We  have 
assumed  a  shutt J e  bus  route  which  would  use  Kissling  Street 
during  the  day  (7:00  a.m.  to  6:00  p.m.)  and  Howard  Street  at 
night  (6:00  p.m.  to  7:00  a.m.),  as  shown  below.     The  Howard 
Street  routing  assumes  that  the  current  right-turn-only  which 
forces  northeastbound  traffic  on  Howard  to  turn  right  into 
southeastbound  11th  Street  would  be  modified  to  allow  a  left- 
turn  at  night   (after  6:00  p.m.)  and  on  weekends,   the  procedure 
for  which  is  described  on  page  118.     This  could  be  done  by 
posting  signs  which  might  read  "LEFT  TURN  OK  AFTER  6  P.M.   AND  ON 
WEEKENDS".     In  addition,   the  Bank  would  ask  it's  employees  not 
to  use  Kissling  Street  as  a  route  to  and  from  work. 


Hours  of  Operation  Route  Via 

7:00  a.m.  to  6:00  p.m.  Kissling  Street  12th-Kissling-llth. 


(Day) 


Return  llth-Folsom- 
12th. 


6:00  p.m.  to  7:00  a.m. 
(Night) 


Howard  Street 


12th-Howard-llth. 
Return  llth-Folsom- 
12th. 


-  108  - 


ROUTE  OPERATES 

ALL  DAY 
DAY  ONLY 

(7:  OO  A.M. -6:  00  P.M.) 

NIGHT  ONLY 
{6:OOP.M.-7:OOA.M.) 

I         SHUTTLE  BUS  STOP 


12 


SHUTTLE  BUS  ROUTE 


Parking  Facility    for    Banl<  of  America    Data  Center*  San  Francisco 

-  109  - 


This  would  eliminate  Parking  Facility  traffic  noise  on 
Kissling  Street,  which  contains  residential  dwellings,  during 
the  night-time  hours.     We  have  also  assumed  that  Kissling  Street 
would  be  converted  to  a  one-way  street  in  the  eastbound  direction 
(towards  11th  Street)  in  order  to  both  facilitate  shuttle  bus 
service  and  improve  overall  traffic  operations.     Kissling  Street 
is  not  a  viable  access  route  to  the  Parking  Facility  due  to  it's 
narrow  width  (22.5  feet)  and  the  fact  that  if  it  were  used  by 
arriving  Parking  Facility  traffic,   two  successive  left  turns  in  a 
distance  of  less  than  200  feet  would  be  required  (left  turn  from 
westbound  Kissling  to  southbound  12th  and  then  from  12th  into  the 
Parking  Facility  entrance  driveway). 

The  Municipal  Railway  does  not  expect  to  remove  streetcar  tracks 
from  11th  Street  until  streetcar  lines  are  placed  below  ground  on 
Market  Street,  which  is  not  expected  to  be  accomplished  before  1980.* 
Currently,  Muni  uses  the  tracks  on  11th  Street  to  form  a  turn-around 
loop  for  cars  on  the  J  and  N  lines.     Disabled  vehicles  are  also  parked 
there.     The  tracks  are  generally  in  use  between  5:00  a.m.   and  11:00 
p.m.   daily.     There  is  a  possibility  that  the  surface  streetcar 
tracks  will  continue  in  use  beyond  1980  and  that  the  turn-out  tracks 
on  11th  Street  would  be  retained  as  well. 

Continued  use  of  11th  Street  for  streetcar  operations  would 
pose  a  possibility  of  conflict  between  Muni  and  other  vehicles. 
Unless  the  tracks  are  removed,   the  use  of  11th  Street  as  a  turn- 
around point  for  Bank  shuttle  vehicles  might  not  be  possible,  nor 
could  11th  Street  be  deadended  at  Market.     If  no  shuttle  bus  turn- 
around can  be  provided,   an  alternative  shuttle  bus  route  would  have 
to  be  arranged.     One  possible  alternative  would  be  a  loop  route 
which  would  use  12th  Street,   South  Van  Ness,  Market,   11th  and  either 
Kissling  (7:00  a.m.   -  6:00  p.m.)  or  Folsom  (6:00  p.m.   -  7:00  a.m.). 

Such  a  route  would  involve  all  right  hand  turns.     Some  delay 
during  the  daytime  hours  could  be  anticipated  at  South  Van  Ness 
and  Market,   and  at  Market  and  11th  Street  from  pedestrian  conflicts. 
This  would  also  impact  traffic  volumes  on  the  one  block  segment 
of  Market  Street  between  South  Van  Ness  Avenue  and  11th  Street, 
since  it  would  add  310  shuttle  bus  trips  a  day  to  eastbound  Market 
Street . 

*Telephone  communication  from  Mr.   Frank  Brewer,   San  Francisco 
iviunicipal  Railway,   to  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates,  March  19,  1976» 

-  110  - 


3.     Impact  of  Shuttle  Bus  Pick-Up  and  Drop-Off  Zones 
The  shuttle  bus  service  between  the  Parking  Facility  at 
12th  and  Kissling  and  the  Data  Center  at  11th  and  Market  would 
have  a  pick-up  and  drop-off  point  on  12th  Street  south  of  Kiss- 
ling  Street  and  a  similar  stop  on  11th  Street  south  of  Market. 
(See  Figure  10,  Page  101) 

The  City's  Market  Street  reconstruction  project  calls  for 
a  narrowing  of  11th  Street  at  Market  Street*.     A  "bulb"  is  to 
be  built  on  the  westerly  corner  which  would  provide  an  area  on 
the  west  (southbound)  side  of  the  street  which  could  be  used 
as  a  shuttle  bus  stop.     This  would  provide  a  turn-around  area 
and  a  pick-up  and  drop-off  point  which  would  not  block  traffic 
and  which  could  serve  both  the  Data  Center  and  the  Bank's 
existing  data  processing  facilities  at  One  South  Van  Ness.  The 
portion  of  11th  Street  between  Market  Street  and  Mission  Street 
is  not  heavily  travelled,  since  traffic  at  Market  is  restricted 
to  right-turn-only  (right  turn  from  Market  to  11th  and  right 
turn  from  11th  to  Market),  and  traffic  usage  would  be  further 
inhibited  by  the  narrowing  of  11th  at  Market.     On  this  basis, 
establishing  a  shuttle  bus  passenger  pick-up  and  drop-off  zone 
on  the  west  side  of  11th  Street  adjacent  to  the  Bank's  existing 
data  processing  facility  would  not  result  in  a  blockage  of 
southbound  traffic. 

The  shuttle  bus  stop  on  the  east  side  of  12th  Street 
adjacent  to  the  Parking  Facility  would  not  produce  a  blockage 
of  northbound  traffic.     There  is  sufficient  width  to  accom- 
modate existing  plus  projected  Parking  Facility  traffic  volumes 
without  any  potential  blockage  of  12th  Street  by  shuttle  bus 
loading  or  unloading. 


*Figure  2,  Page  B-4,  and  Page  B-54;  EIR  EE  74.128. 


-  Ill  - 


4.     Impact  of  Kisslinjg;  Street  as  a  One-Way  Street 


The  one-way  portion  of  Kissling  Street  would  be  between 
11th  Street  and  12th  Street.     Kissling  Street  is  22.5  feet  wide 
curb  to  curb,  and  carries  a  two-way  traffic  volume  of  360  vehi- 
cles a  day.     (See  Table  2,  Page      88   )    As  a  one-way  street 
eastbound,  traffic  on  Kissling  Street  would  be  reduced,  since 
some  of  the  non-residential  traffic  would  be  diverted  to  other 
routes.     The  existing  residential  dwellings  are  at  the  easterly 
(11th  Street)  end  of  Kissling  and  would  be  affected,  since  all 
arrivals  would  have  to  travel  via  12th  Street  and  all  departing 
traffic  via  11th  Street.     A  relatively  small  amount  of  traffic 
with  a  westbound  destination  would  be  diverted 

around  the  block  rather  than  having  direct  access  via  Kissling. 
The  conversion  of  Kissling  Street  from  two-way  to  one-way 
(eastbound)  would  impact  the  adjacent  streets  which  would  have 
to  absorb  diverted  traffic.     However,  this   could  produce  a 
potential  use  of  Kissling  Street  by  traffic  departing  the 
Parking  Facility.     Some  of  the  traffic  which  would  be  headed 
towards  the  freeway  on-ramp s  could  use  Kissling  Street  as  a 
route,  since  this  would  involve  a  right  turn  out  of  the  Park- 
ing Facility  rather  than  a  left  turn.     The  number  of  vehicles 
that  might  use  Kissling  Street  would  not  be  large.     We  have 
assumed  that  the  Bank  would  request  its  employees  to  refrain 
from  using  Kissling  Street  and  have  taken  this  into  account 
in  our  traffic  analysis. 

5.     Impact  on  Parking  around  the  Data  Center 

Analysis  of  the  anticipated  arrival  and  departure  pattern 
indicates  that  350  day  shift  employee  vehicles  would  not  be 
able  to  use  the  Parking  Facility  due  to  the  need  to  reserve 
parking  spaces  for  swing  shift  employees  who  would  be  arriving 
before  the  day  shift  departed.     These  day  shift  employees  would 
probably  park  in  privately  operated  off-street  facilities  around 
the  Data  Center.     It  is  estimated  that  they  would  be  approximately 
equal  in  number  to  the  number  of  present  One  South  Van  Ness  Data 
Center  employee  vehicles  which  are  not  accommodated  by  the  banks' 
current  parking  facilities  and  park  elsewhere. 


-  112  - 


C.     Impact  on  Pedestrian  Accessibility 


While  the  project  would  generate  1,520  pedestrian  trips 
a  day,  local  pedestrian  traffic  in  the  industrial  sector  of 
downtown  is  relatively  light.    For  example,  two  of  the 
crosswalks  which  serve  the  pedestrian  route  between  the 
Parking  Facility  and  the  Data  Center  had  the  following  PM 
peak  commuter  hour  pedestrian  volumes  in  the  spring  of  1975*. 

Crosswalk  on  11th  at  Mission  —  190  pedestrians  (two-way) 
Crosswalk  on  Mission  at  11th    —      70  pedestrians  (two-way) 

Sidewalk  and  crosswalk  capacity  is  dependent  on  many  of 
the  same  factors  which  are  considered  in  determining  street 
traffic  capacity.    A  level  of  service  concept  has  also  been 
developed  which  can  be  used  in  determining  pedestrian  capacity 
in  much  the  same  manner  as  vehicle  capacity**.     On  this  basis, 
the  comfort  level  of  pedestrians  is  maintained  at  a  pedestrian 
movement  level  of  about  10  pedestrians  (two-way)  per  foot  of 
walkway  width  per  minute,  or  600  pedestrians  per  foot  of  walk- 
way width  per  hour.    A  10-foot-wide  sidewalk  would  have  a  two- 
way  pedestrian  traffic  capacity  of  6,000  pedestrians  per  hour, 
and  a  10-foot-wide  crosswalk  a  capacity  of  3,000  pedestrians 
per  hour  (assuming  pedestrians  could  cross  the  street  during 
50  percent  of  the  hour  with  minimal  conflict  from  turning 
vehicles) . 

The  Parking  Facility  would  generate  430  pedestrian  trips 
during  the  AM  peak  commuter  hour  and  330  pedestrian  trips  during 
the  PM  peak  commuter  hour.     These  pedestrian  traffic  volumes, 
when  added  to  the  relatively  light  future  pedestrian  traffic 
which  would  be  anticipated  for  the  surrounding  area,  would  be 
well  within  the  capacity  of  the  sidewalks  and  crosswalks  which 
would  serve  the  pedestrian  route  between  the  Parking  Facility 
and  the  Data  Center. 

*Pages  B-55,  B-56;  EIR  EE  74.128. 

**Pedestrian  Planning  and  Design;  John  J.  Fruin;  Metropolitan 
Association  of  Urban  Designers  and  Environmental  Planners, 
Inc.;  New  York,  New  York;  1971. 


-  113  - 


V  ALTERNATIVES 

A, Site  Location 

Alternatives  to  the  proposed  Parking  Facility  location 
would  involve  a  balance  or  trade-off  between  site  accessibility 
and  distance  from  the  Data  Center.     Some  sites  which  might  be 
more  accessible  would  be  farther  away  and  the  planned 
shuttle  busses  would  have  a  greater  impact.     A  site  closer  to 
the  Data  Center  or  at  essentially  the  same  distance  might 
be  less  accessible  in  the  downtown  context.     However,  this 
might  be  balanced  by  a  reduction  in  shuttle  bus  impact  when 
compared  to  other  alternative  sites 

The  general  criteria  for  locating  the  Parking  Facility 
were  presented  in  the  Data  Center  EIR, *     Essentially,  the 
Parking  Facility  site  would  be  in  an  industrial  area  which 
would  produce  peak  traffic  hours  outside  of  the  normal  commuter 
peak  traffic  hours,  and  in  an  area  which  would  not  be  heavily 
trafficked  during  these  hours.     Review  of  the  site  location 
with  the  Muni  with  the  aim  of  minimizing  potential  traffic 
conflicts  was  also  felt  to  be  an  advisable  part  of  the  site 
selection  process. 

The  site  which  has  been  chosen  would  minimize  potential 
conflict  with  Muni  transit  operations.     The  traffic  gen- 
eration characteristics  of  the  surrounding  area  produce  peak 
volumes  which  are  outside  the  normal  peak  commuter  travel 
period.     However,  the  primary  access  routes  also  carry  other 
traffic  and  experience  a  typical  7:00-8:00  a.m.,  4:30-5:30  p.m. 
peak  hour.     This  is  an  access  trade  off  between  a  more  distant 
industrial  area  site  with  restricted  surface  street  access 
(such  as  the  industrial  area  east  of  the  US  101  and  Interstate 
280  Freeways)  and  a  close-in  site  with  good  access  which  also 
carries  other  peak-hour  traffic. 


*Pages  112-113,  EIR,  EE  74.128. 


-  114  - 


The  streets  which  serve  the  Parking  Facility  site  are 
not  heavily  trafficked  due  to  the  industrial  character 
of  the  area.     There  are  multiple  nearby  access  routes 
available  which  would  allow  generated  Parking  Facility  traffic 
to  be  distributed  in  a  manner  which  would  minimize  the  impact 
on  any  single  street.     Such  nearby  routes  would  not  be  available 
in  the  same  number  for  a  site  easterly  of  the  US  101-Interstate 
80  Freeway  corridor,  or  in  the  Potrero  area,  where  there  are 
not  as  many  designated  thoroughfares  or  neighborhood 
streets  which  would  be  impacted  by  Parking  Facility  traffic. 

The  greatest  comparative  difference  between  any  alternative 
site  and  the  proposed  12th  and  Kissling  site  is  the  proximity 
to  the  Data  Center  itself.     The  proposed  site  would  offer 
employees  a  transportation  mode  alternative  to  the  planned 
shuttle  bus,  since  the  Parking  Facility  would  be  within  a 
three-block  walk  of  the  Data  Center.     If  the  Parking  Facility 
were  located  at  a  more  distant  site,  an  additional  420  shuttle 
bus  trips  a  day  would  be  made  to  transport  employees  who  other- 
wise might  have  walked.    Moreover,  by  providing  a  pedestrian 
choice,  the  proposed  site  would  reduce  shuttle  bus  VMT  (Vehicle 
Miles  Travelled)  from  the  number  which  would  result  from  some 
other  more  remote  alternative  site. 

B.     Kissling  Street 

An  alternative  to  the  proposal  to   make  Kissling  Street  one- 
way eastbound  would  be  to  make  it  one-way  westbound.  The 
principal  impact  of  this  alternative  would  be  on  shuttle  bus 
operations.    Assuming  that  shuttle  bus  traffic  on  Kissling 
would  be  restricted  after  6:00  p.m.,  the  one-way  westbound 
alternative  would  require  the  establishment  of  either  two  stops 
one  on  the  north  side  of  Kissling  (for  evening  traffic)  and  the 
other  on  the  eastside  of  12th  south  of  Kissling  (for  day- 
time traffic)  or  a  single  stop  on  12th  Street  north  of  Kissling 
which  could  be  used  all  day.     Either  of  these  two  alternatives 
would  increase  the  walking  distance  for  shuttle  bus  users. 

One  of  the  alternative  shuttle  bus  routes  which  might  be 
developed  would  be  a  clockwise  loop  via  12th-South  Van  Ness- 


-  115  - 


Market- llth-Kissling  (day)/Folsom  (night).     This  route  would 
involve  all  right  turns  and  would  place  shuttle  bus  traffic 
on  South  Van  Ness  Avenue  and  Market  Street. 

Other  potential  routes  would  consist  of  a  figure  eight 
pattern  involving  a  turn-around  on  11th  south  of  Market  and 
an  eastbound  to  northbound  left  turn  on  either  Howard  at  11th 
or  Mission  at  11th.     Eastbound  traffic  on  Howard  at  11th  is 
presently  squeezed  in  to  the  curb  lane  and  forced  to  turn  right, 
since  Howard  is  a  one-way  street  westbound  east  of  11th  Street. 
A  Howard  Street  route  would  require  that  the  current  right- 
turn-only  be  changed  to  allow  a  left  turn  at  all  times  of  day. 
The  other  potential  figure  eight  route  would  use  Mission 
Street  with  a  left  turn  at  11th.     Mission  Street  is  a  Transit 
Preferential  Street  on  which  transit  vehicles  will  (1)  have 
the  exclusive  use  of  the  curb  lane  during  the  peak  commuter 
hours  and  (2)  will  travel  in  the  regular  traffic  lane  with  the 
curb  lane  being  used  for  parking  during  the  off-peak  hours.* 
This  alternative  shuttle  bus  routing  would  produce  a  conflict 
during  the  PM  peak  hour  between  shuttle  busses  going  to  the 
Data  Center  and  outbound  (westbound)  transit  vehicles. 

Another  potential  shuttle  bus  route  would  be  a  counter- 
clockwise "ell"  shaped  route  on  llth-Kissling  and  Folsom. 
Such  an  alternative  route  would  use  Kissling  all  day  and 
would  affect  both  the  noise  and  traffic  impact  of  the  proposed 
shuttle  bus  operation.     This  route  would  also  involve  three 
left  turns  in  addition  to  the  turnaround  at  Market  Street. 


*  Information  provided  via  telephone  by  Mr.  Ernest  Gonzales, 
Mr.  Gilbert  Sams,  Division  of  Traffic  Engineering,  Department 
of  Public  Works;     January  18,   1977;     January  20,  1977. 


-  116  - 


VI    MITIGATING  MEASURES 


There  are  several  measures  which  would  have  the  potential 
to  mitigate  the  impact  of  traffic  which  would  be  generated  by 
the  Parking  Facility. 

A.  Vehicular  Access-Egress 

All  vehicular  access  and  egress  would  be  limited  to  12th 
Street.     No  traffic  would  enter  or  exit  the  Parking  Facility 
directly  from  Kissling  Street.     This  would  be  a  disincentive 
for  traffic  to  use  Kissling  Street^  which,  in  addition  to  the  cur 
rent  industrial  uses,  also  contains  several  residential  dwellings 
near  11th  Street. 

B.  Kissling  Street  as  a  One-Way  Street 

The  conversion  of  Kissling  Street  from  a  two-way  street 
to  one-way  eastbound  would  improve  overall  traffic  conditions 
on  this  one-block-long  narrow  street  between  11th  and  12th  Street 
The  number  of  potential  points  of  vehicular  and  pedestrian 
conflict  at  both  11th  and  12th  Streets  would  be  reduced  and 
the  narrow  two-way  street  with  its  potential  hazards  would  be 
altered  to  a  wide  one-way  street.     The  Bank  would  also  request 
its  employees  to  refrain  from  using  Kissling  Street  when  de- 
parting the  Parking  Facility  in  order  to  minimize  potential 
traffic  impact. 

In  order  to  convert  Kissling  Street  to  one-way  operation, 
a  request  to  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco  would  be 
made.     The  proposal  would  be  studied  by  the  Division  of  Traffic 
Engineering,  Bureau  of  Public  Works  and  other  affected  public 
agencies,  a  public  hearing  held  and  recommendations  made  to 
the  Board  of  Supervisors.     Approval  by  the  Board  of  Supervisors 
and  the  preparation  and  passage  of  an  appropriate  ordinance 
would  be  required  before  Kissling  Street  could  be  converted. 


-  117  - 


C.     Alternative  Shuttle  Bus  Routing 

The  shuttle  bus  service  which  would  be  operated  by  the 
Bank  of  America  to  transport  employees  between  the  Parking 
Facility  at  12th  and  Kissling  and  the  Data  Center  complex  at 
11th  and  Market  would  use  different  routes  during  the  day  and 
nighttime  hours.     This  would  be  done  in  order  to  minimize 
traffic  noise  impact  on  the  residential  dwellings  which  are 
located  on  Kissling  Street  easterly  of  the  Parking  Facility 
site.     During  the  period  beginning  at  7:00  a.m.  and  ending  at 
6:00  p.m.,  shuttle  busses  would  be  operated  on  Kissling  Street. 
After  6:00  p.m.  and  throughout  the  evening  and  nighttime  hours 
until  7:00  a.m.  the  next  morning,  shuttle  bus  service  would 
be  routed  via  Howard  Street.     This  route  would  also  be  in  effect 
on  weekends. 

The  evening/night  time  and  weekend  shuttle  bus  route 
via  Howard  would  require  a  change  in  the  present  turning 
restriction  for  eastbound  Howard  traffic  at  11th  Street.  The 
one-way  westbound  portion  of  Howard  ends  at  11th  and  all 
eastbound  traffic  on  Howard  is  forced  to  turn  right  onto  11th 
Street.     In  order  to  accommodate  the  shuttle  bus,  the  current 
right-turn-only  could  be  modified  to  allow  a  left  turn  at 
night  (from  6:00  p.m.  to  7:00  a.m.)  and  on  weekends.  This 
would  have  to  be  studied  by  the  Division  of  Traffic  Engineering, 
Bureau  of  Public  Works,  and  other  affected  agencies,  a  public 
hearing  held,  approval  voted  by  the  Board  of  Supervisors  and 
an  appropriate  ordinance  passed. 

The  establishment  of  White  Passenger  Loading  Zones*  would 
be  required  for  the  shuttle  bus  stop  at  the  Data  Center  and  at 
the  Parking  Facility.     A  request  for  passenger  loading  zones 
would  be  made  to  the  Police  Department.     This  would  have  to 
be  approved  by  the  Police  Commission  before  the  zones  could  be 
posted. 

♦Section  21458(c);  Vehicle  Code  1974;   State  of  California, 
Department  of  Motor  Vehicles. 


-  118  - 


D.  Distance  to  Data  Center 

The  relatively  short  distance  between  the  parking  Facility 
site  and  the  Data  Center  would  also  be  a  mitigating  factor. 
The  Parking  Facility  would  be  three  blocks  from  the  Data  Center 
and  would  permit  walking  as  an  alternative  mode  of  transpor- 
tation.    This  would  produce  fewer  average  shuttle  bus  trips  a 
day  and  less  VMT. 

E.  Traffic  Capacity  Improvement 

While  the  major  departure  routes  which  serve  the  Parking 
Facility  would  not  experience  capacity  conditions,  westbound 
13th  Street  at  Mission  Street  would  be  approaching  capacity 
operation.    Perpendicular  curb  parking  is  presently  allowed 
on  the  north  side  of  the  street  (westbound  13th  Street)  be- 
tween South  Van  Ness  and  Mission.    A  portion  of  this  parking 
could  be  modified  and  the  protective  curb  at  Mission  Street 
revised  to  allow  a  three-lane  rather  than  the  present  two -lane 
westbound  intersection  approach.    This  would  increase  traffic 
capacity  to  2,100  vehicles  per  hour  (at  Level  of  Service  D) , 
which  would  result  in  a  volume-capacity  ratio  of  0.63. 

Modification  of  the  present  protective  curb  or  west- 
bound 13th  Street  at  Mission  would  require  a  study  by  the 
Division  of  Traffic  Engineering,  Department  of  Public  Works, 
and  other  affected  public  agencies,  a  public  hearing,  approval 
of  the  Board  of  Supervisors  and  passage  of  an  appropriate 
ordinance  authorizing  the  curb  removal/reconstruction  and  the 
changes  in  existing  curb  parking  required  to  provide  the 
additional  westbound  traffic  lane  at  Mission  Street. 

An  increase  in  the  traffic  carrying  capability  of  south- 
bound 12th  Street  at  Folsom  might  also  be  possible  through 
a  combination  of  restriping  and  curb  parking  prohibitions 
during  the  PM  peak  traffic  period.     A  refinement  of  existing 
signal  timing  would  also  be  another  potential  means  of 
mitigating  the  impact  of  projected  parking  structure  traffic. 
These  measures  would  require  study  by  the  Division  of  Traffic 
Engineering.     Potential  changes  in  curb  parking  would  also 


-  119  - 


require  review  by  others,  such  as  the  Police  Department, 
public  hearings  and  a  vote  of  the  Board  of  Supervisors. 

Similarly,  further  study  and  refinement  of  existing 
signal  timing  at  the  10th  and  Bryant  intersection  would  be 
a  means  of  mitigating  anticipated  PM  peak  hour  traffic 
conditions  on  10th  Street. 

F.  Further  Staggering  of  Work  Hours 

While  there  would  be  considerable  staggering  of  working 
hours  which  would  be  based  on  the  Data  Center  work  processing 
schedules  and  hence  a  staggering  of  arriving  and  departing 
traffic  at  the  Parking  Facility,  further  refinements  aimed 
toward  reducing  commuter  peak-hour  traffic  impact  may  be 
possible.     Administrative  personnel,  who  form  the  bulk  of  the 
commuter  peak-hour  traffic, would  be  especially  susceptible  to 
a  further  restructuring  of  arrival  and  departure  times.  This 
would  have  the  potential  to  reduce  traffic  impact  by  spreading 
employee  traffic  arriving  and  departing  the  Parking  Facility 
over  the  entire  peak  commuter  period  (rather  than  allow  traffic 
to  concentrate  during  the  peak  commuter  hour). 

G.  Incremental  Parking  Program 

Rather  than  develop  all  of  the  parking  which  would  be  re- 
quired to  meet  projected  parking  demand  for  the  Data  Center 
in  the  year  2000,  an  incremental  parking  program  (of  which 
this  is  the  first  facility)  would  be  developed.     This  would 
allow  employee  parking  facilities  to  be  developed  on  a 
rational  basis  over  time.     Future  facilities  would  be  sized 
to  meet  anticipated  demand  after  consideration  of  the  most 
up-to-date  travel  characteristics  rather  than  being  based  on 
long-range  projections.     Such  an  incremental  parking  develop- 
ment plan  would  also  have  the  potential  to  place  future  park- 
ing facilities  at  different  locations.     This  would  spread  the 
generated  traffic  load  to  more  than  the  few  streets  which 
would  serve  a  single  parking  facility. 


-  120  - 


APPENDIX  B 
AIR  QUALITY  IMPACTS 


BANK  OF  AMERICA  DATA  CENTER  PARKING  FACILITY 
Twelfth  and  Kis sling  Streets 
San  Francisco,  California 


EE  75.414 


-  121  - 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

PAGE 

PROJECT  DESCRIPTION  123 

ENVIRONMENTAL  SETTING  123 

LAND  USE  AND  ZONING  CHARACTERISTICS  123 

TRAFFIC  CHARACTERISTICS  123 

AIR  QUALITY  CHAIIACTERISTICS  125 

AIR  QUALITY  IMPACTS  125 

ALTERNATIVES  TO  THE  PROJECT  126 

LOCATION  OF  THE  PARKING  FACILITY  AT  THE  DATA  CENTER  126 

PROVISION  OF  A  LARGER  STRUCTURE  126 

ALTERNATIVE  LOCATION  FOR  THE  PROJECT  126 

NO  PROJECT  129 
APPENDIX  B-I:     TRAFFIC  ESTIMATES  USED  IN  AIR  QUALITY  IMPACT 

CALCULATIONS  130 

LIST  OF  TABLES 

B-1         PROJECT  IMPACT  SUMMARY  125 

B-2        PROJECT  IMPACTS:     ROADSIDE  CARBON  MONOXIDE  CONCENTRATIONS  127 

B-3        MODAL  SPLIT  CHARACTERISTIC  OF  EXISTING  DATA  PROCESSING 

EMPLOYEES  AT  PROJECT  SITE  AND  OF  HYPOTHETICAL  ALTERNATIVE 

LOCATIONS  129 

B-4        AREA  TRAFFIC  COUNTS  AND  1987  ESTIMATED  TRAFFIC  131 

B-5        TRAFFIC  GENERATED  BY  PROJECT  AT  PROJECT  SITE,   1987  132 

B-6        TRAFFIC  IN  STUDY  AREA  GENERATED  BY  PROJECT,   1987  133 

LIST  OF  FIGURES 

B-1        PROJECT  SITE  AND  VICINITY  124 

B-2        KEY  TO  PROJECT-GENERATED  TRAFFIC  PROJECTIONS  128 


-  122  - 


PROJECT  DESCRIPTION 


The  proposed  Bank  of  America  Data  Center  parking  facility  would  be  located 
on  the  southeast  corner  of  Twelfth  Street  and  Kissling  Street,  on  Lot  19  of 
Assessor's  Block  3516,  in  the  City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  State  of  Cali- 
fornia (see  Figure  B-1,  p.  124). 

The  facility  would  be  a  six-level  structure  with  approximately  850  parking 
spaces.     Ingress  to  the  structure  would  be  from  Twelfth  Street  and  would  be  con- 
trolled to  assure  that  only  bank  employees  entered;  egress  would  also  be  to 
Twelfth  Street,     A  shuttle  bus  would  carry  employees  between  the  parking  struc- 
ture and  the  data  center. 

The  parking  structure  is  intended  to  meet  the  parking  demand  generated  by 
the  swing  and  midnight  shifts  at  the  data  center,  which  is  located  approximately 
1,200  feet  to  the  north  on  the  block  bounded  by  Market  Street,  Tenth  Street, 
Mission  Street  and  Eleventh  Street.     Given  this  intention,  it  would  not  meet  the 
parking  demand  generated  by  day  shift  workers,  some  of  whom  would  either  have  to 
find  parking  elsewhere  or  get  to  work  using  another  mode  of  transportation.  Be- 
cause users  would  be  limited  to  data  center  employees,  turnover  at  the  garage 
would  be  infrequent;  each  stall  would  accommodate  a  maximum  of  three  cars  per 
day,  but  probably  fewer  because  of  overlap  in  the  times  of  shifts.     This  struc- 
ture is  the  first  of  one  or  more  facilities  intended  to  meet  data  center  employee 
parking  demand  in  the  year  2000. 

ENVIRONMENTAL  SETTING 

LAND  USE  AND  ZONING  CHARACTERISTICS 

The  parking  facility  would  be  located  in  an  area  zoned  M-1   (Light  Industrial 
District)  and  adjacent  to  an  area  zoned  C-M  (Heavy  Commercial  District);  parking 
facilities  are  a  permitted  use  in  both  of  these  zones.     Area  land  use  consists 
primarily  of  light  industry,  retail  outlets,  small  restaurants  and  bars  which 
serve  the  local  work  force  and  the  gay  community,  and  residences.  Thirty-nine 
year-round  housing  units,  accommodating  106  people,  were  counted  on  the  block 
proposed  for  the  parking  structure  in  the  1970  Census, 

TRAFFIC  CHARACTERISTICS 

A  traffic  count  completed  in  December,   1975  by  the  project  traffic  engineer 
recorded  vehicle  traffic  at  34  stations  in  the  project  area.     This  count  measured 
volumes  for  the  24-hour  period  as  well  as  peak  hour,  highest  eight  hours,  and 
6:00  to  9:00  A.M.  volumes.     The  results  are  reported  in  Appendix  A  (p^  87),  are 
correlated  to  Figure  2   (p.  88)  and  are  set  forth  in  internal  Appendix  B-I  (pp.  130-133). 

Thirty  of  the  34  stations  recorded  24-hour  traffic  of  over  2,000  cars.  The 
busiest  location  was  South  Van  Ness  Avenue  south  of  Market  with  27,400  vehicles. 
Streets  adjacent  to  the  project  site  had  counts  of  9,520  cars  (Folsom  Street  west 
of  Eleventh  Street);   10,500  cars  (Folsom  at  Twelfth  Street);  320  cars  (Kissling 
Street  south  of  Eleventh  Street);  360  cars  (Kissling  north  of  Twelfth  Street); 
and  12,900  cars  (Howard  Street  at  Twelfth). 


The  air  quality  appendix  is  based  upon  material  submitted  by  Gruen  Gruen  + 
Associates. 

-  123  - 


Figure  B-1:     PROJECT  SITE  AND  VICINITY 


O  400 
SCALE  IN  FEET 


-  124  - 


AIR  QUALITY  CHARACTERISTICS 


The  Bay  Area  Air  Pollution  Control  District  (BAAPCD)  Contaminant  and  Weather 
Summary  for  1975  indicates  that  pollution  standards  were  exceeded  on  eight  days 
at  the  San  Francisco  monitoring  station  (which  is  located  at  939  Ellis  Street)  about 
eight  miles  from  the  project  site,  during  that  period:     the  limit  for  carbon 
monoxide  concentration  was  exceeded  three  times;  the  limit  for  particulates  was 
exceeded  three  times;  and  the  limit  for  sulfur  dioxide  was  exceeded  once.  This 
level  of  air  pollution  in  an  urbanized  area  must  be  at  least  partially  attributed 
to  winds  which  disperse  pollutants  and  clouds  and  fog  which  prevent  the  occurrence 
of  photochemical  reactions  near  the  surface. 


AIR  QUALITY  IMPACTS 


Air  quality  impacts  of  the  project  were  estimated  by  applying  BAAPCD 's  Guide- 
lines for  Air  Quality  Impact  Analysis  of  Projects  (June,  1975)  to  the  traffic 
forecasts  for  both  project  and  area  traffic  (discussed  in  Appendix  B-I,  p.  130), 
Because  the  peak  hour  and  peak  eight  hours  of  project  traffic  differ  from  that 
of  the  surrounding  area,  the  relative  increases  in  carbon  monoxide  emissions  were 
calculated  for  times  of  peak  project  traffic,  thus  indicating  the  greatest  impact 
of  that  traffic  on  air  quality  levels. 

The  calculations  show  that  air  pollution  from  autos  would  increase,  but  still  fall 
below  applicable  standards  (see  Tables  B-1,  below  and  B-2,  p.   127).     The  highest 
roadside  one-hour  carbon  monoxide  concentration  would  be  expected  to  reach  2520 
micrograms  per  cubic  meter  (yg/m^)  on  Tenth  Street  north  of  Mission  Street  (stan- 
dard is  40,000  yg/m^);  the  highest  eight-hour  concentration  would  be  expected  to 
reach  326  yg/m^  on  Tenth  Street  north  of  Bryant  Street  (standard  is  10,000  yg/m^). 

Table  B-1:     PROJECT  IMPACT  SUMMARY 


Contaminant 

Air  Quality 

Standard 
Averaging 
Time 

Air  Quality 
Standard, 

(yg/m^)^ 

Mean  High-hour  Con- 
centrations San 
Francisco  (December, 
1975)""  (Ug/m'r 

Calculated 
Air  Quality 
Impacts 

(yg/m^)^ 

Carbon 
Monoxide 

1  hour 

40,000 

7550 

219.7 

8  hour 

10,000 

N.A.^ 

125.4 

Non-Methane 
Hydrocarbons 

3  hour 
(6-9  A.M.) 

160 

N.A. 

20.9 

Nitrogen 
Dioxide 

1  hour 

500 

105 

8.5 

Federal  air  quality  standards  except  nitrogen  dioxide  which  is  State  of  California 
standard. 

Micrograms  per  cubic  meter. 

jSource:     BAAPCD  "Contaminant  and  Weather  Summary",  December,  1975. 
Measurements  not  available 
Source:     Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates 

'photochemical  reactions  are  chemical  changes  caused  by  radiant  energy;  in  this 

^case,  they  are  the  changes  caused  by  sunlight. 

Per  conversation  with  Ralph  Mead  at  BAAPCD,  April  20,  1976. 


-  125  - 


ALTERNATIVES  TO  THE  PROJECT 


LOCATION  OF  THE  PARKING  FACILITY  AT  THE  DATA  CENTER 

If  the  employee  parking  had  been  located  in  the  same  structure  as  the 
data  center,  the  need  for  shuttle  bus  trips   (14%  of  the  total  trips  generated 
by  the  project)  would  have  been  eliminated.     That  location,  however,  is  in 
an  area  more  heavily  used  by  pedestrians.     Therefore,  although  the  total 
number  of  trips  would  have  been  reduced,  those  that  did  occur  would  have 
brought  the  sources  of  pollution  closer  to  a  higher  concentration  of  receptors. 
This  alternative  was  abandoned  in  order  (1)  to  conform  to  the  Planning  Code, 
which  allows  only  accessory  parking  in  a  C-3-G  zone  in  an  amount  insufficient 
to  meet  the  projected  needs  of  data  center  workers  and  (2)  to  avoid  creating 
traffic  impacts  on  Market  and  Mission  Streets  which  would  conflict  with  the 
Transportation  Element:     San  Francisco  Comprehensive  Plan  (April  27,  1972). 

PROVISION  OF  A  LARGER  STRUCTURE 

The  draft  EIR  for  the  Bank  of  America  data  center  (EE  74.128)  discusses 
a  parking  facility  with  1,400  spaces  rather  than  the  currently  planned  850, 
This  65%  larger  facility  would  allow  more  daytime  employees  to  park,  thereby 
encouraging  more  use  of  private  automobiles  as  a  means  of  getting  to  work. 
That  increased  auto  use  would  increase  the  air  pollution  generated  by  the 
project . 

ALTERNATIVE  LOCATION  FOR  THE  PROJECT 

A  number  of  Bay  Area  locations  were  originally  considered  as  sites  for  the 
data  center    with  a  Concord  site  given  specific  consideration  in  the  data  center 
EIR.     An  analysis  of  labor  force  density,  however,  showed  that  there  are  nearly 
25  times  as  many  labor  force  participants  per  square  mile  in  San  Francisco  as 
in  Contra  Costa  County.     Because  Contra  Costa  County  has  a  much  lower  labor 
force  density,  employees  of  a  data  center  located  in  Concord  would  travel  further 
from  their  residences  to  work  than  would  employees  of  a  data  center  in  San 
Francisco. 

Automobile  use  of  Concord  data  center  commuters  would  also  be  different  than 
those  of  San  Francisco  data  center  commuters.     Table  B-3   (p.   129)  shows  recent 
automobile  use  characteristics  of  employees  of  firms  in  various  cities  of  the 
region.     A  San  Francisco  location  would  maximize  the  ability  of  employees  to  use 


City  and  County  of  San  Francisco,  Department  of  City  Planning,  Bank  of  America 
Data  Center  EIR  EE  74.128,  pp.  121-129. 


-  126  - 


> 

U) 

•H 

n) 

■u 

QJ 

to 

rH 

O 

(U 

c 

M 

0) 

o 

•H 

o 

W 

w 

•H 

E 

txj 

01 

1 

V 

u 

o 

D 

J-) 

o 

Q- 

u 

C/2 

c 

0) 

z 

o 

O 

z 

•H 

U-l 

1 

1-1 

U-l 

4-1 

d 

0 

O 

r-* 

)J 

M 

QJ 

O 

H 

-3- 

J 

« 

C 

m 

0 

T-i 

CM 

Pi 

tJ 

— 

0) 

> 

0) 

•r-l 

to 

iJ 

dJ 

ct 

u 

t—l 

u 

0) 

c 

CO 

c 

o 

n 

•H 

o 

V) 

00 

o 

W 

o 

•H 

CM 

e 

CnI 

w 

0) 

1 

u 

M 

o 

3 

^ 

4-1 

o 

o 

o 

CO 

c 

f-H 

o 

CN 

o 

z 

•H 

>W 

1 

CO 

4J 

« 

o 

u 

r-l 

u 

M 

<u 

o 

6* 

^« 

S~8 

^s 

8>« 

vO 

O 

00 

o 

00 

rH 

-J- 

o 

i-H 

r-* 

CM 

n 

00 


O  rH 

O  ir> 


•* 

rH 

rH 

00 

o\ 

o 

rH 

r- 

<7> 

CO 

• 

cn 

00 

rH 

00 

rH 

vO 

i-H 

>A 

r~ 

in 

r— 

rH 

OO 

O 

■a- 

in 

iri 

-3- 

rH 

CM 

CM 

.H 

CM 

m 

rH 

CM 


vO 

CM 

o 

CM 

O 

O 

VO 

o 

CM 

CM 

CM 

rH 

CO 

o 

CM 

CM 

vO 

m 

vO 

-3- 

O 

<• 

CM 

in 

rH 

CM 

00 

vO 

CO 

vO 

z 

in 

O 

ST 

m 

O 

CO 

z 

rH 

•<r 

rH 

CM 

CM 

rH 

CM 

<r 

rH 

CM 

rH 

rH 

O 

a\ 

CM 

CT> 

a\ 

r« 

rH 

00 

CI 

vO 

00 

o\ 

m 

00 

m 

CO  o 

r~ 

1^ 

o 

m 

O 

m 

CM 

rH 

m 

CO 

CM 

O 

m 

rH 

OO 

vD  CM 

O 

rH 

u-l 

in 

CM 

-* 

m 

o 

CO 

-3- 

rH 

LO 

vO 

r«- 

CO 

ON 

o 

rH 

CM 

CO 

CM 

CM 

CM 

CM 

CM 

CO 

cn 

CO 

CO 

9<  S>S 
CM 


CM 


vo    00  <r 


O  VO 

O  VO 
CO  ■3- 
CO  CM 


m  CO 


O     rH  f~- 


o  o 

r~.  CM 


CM  CM 

CM  r» 

CTi  CM 


00  CM 
VO  CM 


«a-  OO 
CM  m 

CO 


th  m    o  o 


m  m 

VO  SI- 
CO  CM 
CM 


CO 
r~-  vo 

vO  CM 


u 
z 


o 
z 


z 


CO 


r>.  rH  VO 


CM  rH     in  00 
00     <T  O 


m  CM 

-*  rH 


CO  m 

VO  VO 


rHP^     OvGO     COO     vO**     CO  CO 


00 
CO 


O  rH 


CO  CM 
-3- 


o  o 

CO  rH 


«  c 

O  T< 

Vi  rJ 


0)  01 

>  m 

•H  rt 

4J  (U 

«  M 

rH  O 

0)  C 


n 
c 
o 

•H 
O  0) 


»>8  SsS 
-3-  CM 


m  CO 


c  sr 


CM  -s-       CO    m  >3 

CO 


O  -r-l 

u  o 

S  kl  4J 

O  CS.  o 

CO  C  OJ 

o 

o  z 

•H 

iw  I 


(S  o 
u  u 


■a  j«! 
a  c 

O  -H 


c 

•H  T5 
M  O 

to  -H 

U  U 

(U  (U 

>  Oi 

< 


00 

in 

CM 

O 

CM 

CM 

CO 

VO 

CO 

Ov 

CO 

rH 

o 

CM 

CO 

r~ 

rH 

VO 

O 

<?v 

-3- 

CO 

o 

•3- 

m 

m 

CM 

-3 

rH 

m 

CO 

CM 

O 

rH 

r~. 

-3- 

VO 

m 

CO 

(M 

in 

m 

CM 

m 

CO 

VO 

CM 

rH 

rH 

CO 

CM 

CM 

rH 

r~ 

rH 

CM 

rH 

rH 

rH 

rH 

rH 

o 

CM 

rs 

in 

o 

CO 

m 

m 

CM 

vO 

>o 

-3- 

CO 

CO 

O 

o 

CM 

u 

m 

rH 

-3- 

00 

CM 

o 

m 

CO 

CM 

Ov 

-3- 

rH 

m 

CM 

rH 

-3- 

rH 

m 

-3- 

CM 

rH 

vO 

CO 

-3 

z 

z 

-3- 

CM 

z 

CO 

CO 

•3- 

CM 

O 

rH 

z 

o 

CM 

OV 

rH 

sO 

rH 

CM 

rH 

rH 

rH 

rH 

rH 

00 

rH 

CM 

00 

CO 

r~- 

CO 

in 

m 

Ov 

CTV 

CO 

rH 

00 

m 

in 

CO 

r~ 

CM 

CM 

o 

<Jv 

r~ 

r~ 

rH 

m 

CM 

r*. 

CO 

o 

CTv 

>3- 

VO 

vO 

o 

00 

•3- 

rH 

CM 

m 

vO 

CO 

00 

c 

m 

o 

rH 

m 

rH 

CM 

CO 

rH 

r- 

00 

rH 

rH 

rH 

CM 

rH 

rH 

CM 

CO 

rH 

CM 

CO 

■a- 

m 

VO 

1^ 

CO 

CM 

O 

rH 

rH 

rH 

U 

U 

u 

u 

u 

u 

u 

u 

u 

U 

U 

V4 

U 

u 

u 

t-> 

U 

U 

u 

u 

U 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

3 

O 

O 

o 

O 

O 

O 

O 

O 

O 

O 

O 

O 

O 

O 

o 

o 

O 

O 

O 

O 

O 

O 

J= 

X 

1 

J= 
1 

JZ 

1 

X. 

x: 

JZ 

4= 

J= 

s: 

SI 

X. 

JC 

j: 

JZ 

j: 

rH 

CO 

rH 

CO 

rH 

1 

CO 

1 

rH 

1 

00 

rH 

1 

CO 

1 

rH 

1 

00 

rH 

1 

00 

rH 

1 

00 

1 

rH 

1 

CO 

rH 

1 

00 

rH 

1 

CO 

a 


o 
o 


I 

o 
o 


CO 


00 


(0 

01 

4J 
CJ 
01 

•r-l 

o 

IH 

o. 


00 


o 

o 

rH 

00 

00 

1 

i) 

o 

4J 

o 

(M 

CO 

•H 

rs 

V4 

1 

U 

(U 

n 

o 

4J 

00 

u 

01 

« 

3 

B 

tH 

< 

O 

3 

u 

00 

•rt 

•r4 

01 

^ 

rH 

c 

(0 

3 

0) 

01 

(J 

c 

<0 

3 

a. 

•H 

kH 

IH 

10 

o 

4J 

0) 

o. 

u 

a 

g 

a 

B 

01 

o 

o 

01 

•ri 

cn 

3 

o 

s 

cn 

to 

4J 

o. 

u 

a 

o 

bO 

to 

c 

O 

S 

0) 

IH 

to 

o 

00 

u 

>s 

4H 

w 

<M 

•H 

01 

to 

3 

rH 

o 

o 

to 

jO 

u 

•V 

-  127  - 


public  transportation,  both  during  the  day  shift  which  is  currently  best  served 
by  public  transportation  and  during  the  night  shifts  to  the  extent  that  non-peak 
hour  public  transportation  service  is  improved  in  the  future.     A  Concord  location 
would  commit  the  bank  to  providing  parking  for  a  greater  percentage  of  swing  and 
midnight  shift  employees  and  doing  so  for  the  life  of  the  project  since  the  po- 
tential for  access  to  non-peak  hour  public  transportation  at  such  a  location  would 
be  lower. 

The  air  quality  impacts  of  locating  the  data  center  in  Concord  would  probably 
have  been  greater  than  locating  the  data  center  and  its  related  parking  facilities 
in  San  Francisco  because  the  current  and  future  employees  of  the  data  center  would 
have  had  to  travel  greater  distances  on  the  average  and  more  of  the  employees 
would  have  to  have  commuted  by  automobile  had  the  data  center  been  located  in  Con- 
cord rather  than  San  Francisco. 


Table  B-3:     MODAL  SPLIT  CHARACTERISTIC  OF  EXISTING  DATA 
PROCESSING  EMPLOYEES  AT  PROJECT  SITE  AND  OF 
HYPOTHETICAL  ALTERNATIVE  LOCATIONS 


Working  In : 
SMSA 

San  Francisco 
Oakland 
Fremont 
Richmond 
Concord 

Bank  of  America,  existing  data  processing 
facility 


Residents  of  San  Francisco-Oakland  SMSA: 
%  Commuting  by  Private  Automobile 

73.7% 
55.0% 
80.0% 
90.2% 
91.1% 
91.2% 

45-50%  (est.)^ 


Of  the  employee  sample,  25.2  drive  alone  or  ride  a  motorcycle,   13.9%  indicated 
that  they  vary  modes  of  transportation  daily  and  an  additional  12.6%  ride  in 
carpools.     Thus,  the  proportion  of  individual  employees  parking  cars  near  the 
site  on  any  given  day  is  probably  in  the  vicinity  of  45-50%. 

Source:     U.S.  Census  of  Population,  1970:     Journey  to  Work,  Table  1;  Gruen 
Gruen  +  Associates,  Bank  of  American  employee  survey.     Based  on 
responses  of  2,172  employees. 

NO  PROJECT 

If  no  parking  facility  were  built,  employees  -  especially  those  on  the  swing 
and  night  shifts  -  would  either  have  to  arrange  to  park  elsewhere  or  take  public 
transportation  to  work.     The  latter  might  be  difficult  because  service  levels  are 
reduced  at  night  and  because  of  perceived  or  actual  increased  danger  associated 
with  public  transit  nighttime  use.     Similarly,  if  employees  had  to  park  elsewhere 


-  129  - 


(e.g.,  in  other  existing  spaces  to  the  extent  available  throughout  the  vicinity) 
there  would  be  no  shuttle  bus  to  the  data  center  and  the  safety  factor  might  also 
be  important.     It  is  likely  that  employees  would  forego  employment  at  the  data 
center  if  no  parking  facility  were  provided;  thus,  the  "no  project"  alternative 
would  work  a  hardship  on  the  employer  as  well  as  the  employees. 

APPENDIX  B-I:     TRAFFIC  ESTIMATES  USED  IN 
AIR  QUALITY  IMPACT  CALCULATIONS 

NON-PROJECT  TRAFFIC 


Machine  traffic  counts  were  taken  in  the  project  study  area  during  December, 
1975  and  were  discussed  in  Appendix  A  (p.  87).     Those  counts  have  been  used  to 
estimate  street^traf f ic  in  1987,  the  year  the  proposed  structure  is  estimated  to 
reach  capacity.      The  1987  estimates  assume  that  study  area  traffic  will  increase 
Ih^o  annually  (see  Appendix  A,  p.  104).     The  1975  traffic  counts  and  1987  traffic 
estimates  are  shown  in  Table  B-4  (p.  131)  and  a  map  key  to  the  counts  and  estimates 
is  shown  in  Figure  B-2  (p.  128). 


PROJECT  TRAFFIC 


The  parking  structure  is  expected  to  generate  4220  vehicle  trip  ends  per  day. 
Three  thousand  six  hundred  of  these  trip  ends  would  involve  employee  cars,  while 
620  would  involve  shuttle  buses.     The  projected  distribution  of  these  trip  ends 
over  various  time  periods  (peak  hour,  maximum  consecutive  8  hours,  6-9  A.M.)  is 
indicated  in  Table  B-5  (p.  132). 


Based  on  Gruen  Gruen  +  Associates'  survey  of  2,190  employees  of  the  existing 
data  center,  1974. 

As  of  January,   1977  the  bank  estimates  that  capacity  may  be  reached  in  1984; 
however,  this  would  result  in  the  level  of  non-project  traffic  estimated  in 
this  study  being  overstated  by  less  than  3%. 


-  130  - 


Table  B-4.     AREA  TRAFFIC  COUNTS  AND 
1987  ESTIMATED  TRAFFIC 


TD  ,-1  *-»  J 

ixoaa 

24 

Hours 

Estimated  Peak 

i rar iic 
Ejignt 

Highest 
Hours 

6:00- 

-9:00  AM 

nouL 

LmR 

ly  /  J 

1  QQ7 

lyo  / 

1  Q7 
ly  /  D 

1  Q87 

ly  o  / 

xy  /  D 

1  Qft7 

xy  o  / 

xy  /  D 

1  QQ7 

X  70  / 

1 

z 

"NT  A 

N  .A. 

J 

Id , dUU 

1  O  AAA 

lo , 4UU 

1     7  AA 
1  ,  /  UU 

9    A1  A 

z ,  UlU 

Q    c:  AA 

y ,  DUU 

11     9  A  A 

11 , zUU 

o  ADA 

J,  UoU 

9    A  /.  A 
J  ,  OW 

4 

N  .A. 

lo , UUU 

TO  AAA 

lo , yuu 

1     Q  Q  A 

1 ,  y  ou 

9     9  QA 
Z  ,  J  jU 

1  A    /.  AA 
lU , 4UU 

1  9  9AA 
Iz , JUU 

9    A/i  A 
Z  ,  U^U 

9  /,r\r\ 
Z ,  4UU 

6 

12 ,600 

14,900 

1     1  QA 

1 ,  loU 

1     1Q  A 

1 ,  jyu 

7 ,540 

8,900 

2,230 

2 , 630 

7 
/ 

O  ,  DOU 

1  A    9  A  A 
lU , ZUU 

Q  7n 

O  /  U 

1     A  "J  A 
1  ,  U  JU 

QA 
D  , Dyu 

A  AAA 
O  ,  DUU 

1        9  A 

1 ,  D  JU 

1  QAA 
X  ,  oUU 

Q 

IN  .A. 

Q 

1 J , UUU 

ID , jUU 

1  A9n 
1  ,  DZU 

1    Q1  n 

1 ,  yiu 

o ,  jy  u 

Q  ono 
y ,  yuu 

1  AAA 
X  ,  DOU 

X ,  you 

1  r» 
iU 

Q  7 

1  A  TAA 
lU , JUU 

1   1  Qn 
1 ,  loU 

1  "iOA 

1,  jyu 

QAA 
D ,  ooU 

A    Q1  A 

o ,  yiu 

X  ,  JDU 

1  Ann 

X  ,  DUU 

11 

O  ,  J4U 

1  A  1  r\r\ 

lU , lUU 

1  AAA 

1 ,  Ubu 

1     9  A 
1 ,  zDU 

/i  7Qn 

H  ,  /  ou 

A/i  n 

D  ,  DtU 

1    Q  7n 
1 ,  y  /  u 

Z  ,  J  jU 

IZ 

1  A  i;aa 
lU , jUU 

19    /.  A  A 

IZ  ,  ^(JU 

1  AAA 

1 ,  t?ou 

1  QAA 

1 ,  you 

A  '?9A 
D  ,  JZU 

7    /■  A  A 

9  Q1  r» 
z ,  oxu 

99n 

J  ,  JZU 

1 J 

Q    c:  9n 
y ,  jZU 

11     9  AA 

11 , zUU 

1     /i  7  A 
1  ,     /  U 

1    7  "^n 
1 ,  /  jU 

D  ,  0  /  U 

A    Q  "5  n 

o ,  y  JU 

9  T7n 
Z  ,  J  /u 

9  son 
z ,  ouu 

1  /■ 
l^ 

M  A 
JN  .  A. 

1 J 

1  QAA 

ID , y uu 

1  Q  QAA 

lo , oUU 

1  9r» 

J  ,  IZU 

Q  A 

y  ,  DDU 

1 1  ir»n 

11 , JUU 

Q  /■  Qn 

J,  tfOU 

/i  1  nn 
,  xuu 

Id 

\T  A 

IN ,  A. 

1  7 

1  / 

1  9  RAfl 
IZ , DUU 

l''* ,  oUU 

1 ,  OUU 

9  1 
Z  ,  1  jU 

o  ,  o  /  U 

1 A  '^nn 

lU , DUU 

1   1  7n 
X  ,  X  /  u 

X  ,  JOU 

lO 

1  9  QflA 

iz , yuu 

1  9AA 
ID , ZUU 

1   Ai  n 

1 ,  DIU 

1 ,  yuu 

ft  /i  /i  n 

Q  QAn 

y ,  you 

X  ,  J  JU 

1  '^7^ 

X  ,  D  /  u 

1  Q 

1  7 

iN  .A, 

IN  .A. 

0  1 

zl 

TVT  A 
IN  .A. 

zz 

1  7sn 

1 ,  /  oU 

9  1  r\r\ 

Z  ,  lUU 

9  9  A 

zZU 

9A  A 

zou 

1   9/i  n 

X  ,  ZtJU 

1  A  An 

1 ,  hDU 

1  sn 

9 1  n 
zxu 

9  1 
Z  J 

M  A 
IN  .  A  • 

9/, 
Z4 

9    Q1  A 

z ,  yiu 

T    /,  TA 

J ,  4dU 

330 

390 

1     QQ  A 

1 ,  oyu 

9    9  lA 

z ,  Z  JU 

t;  9  A 
DZU 

9  R 
ZD 

/.  A 
D4U 

D^U 

80 

ICQ 

9  QA 

JoU 

4DU 

OA 

yu 

1  1  A 

IIU 

26 

5 , 360 

6,  320 

570 

670 

3 ,470 

4, 100 

T  n 

780 

920 

27 

5,360 

6,320 

570 

670 

3,470 

4,100 

780 

920 

28 

N.A. 

29 

10,600 

12,500 

1,150 

1,350 

6,930 

8,180 

1,430 

1,680 

30 

14,000 

16,500 

1,310 

1,550 

8,060 

9,510 

3,200 

3,780 

31 

12,700 

15,000 

1,020 

1,210 

6,550 

7,730 

1,630 

1,920 

32 

13,100 

15,400 

1,510 

1,790 

7,320 

8,630 

2,200 

2,600 

33 

N.A. 

No  applicable  traffic  counts  available. 


Source:  Linscott,  Law  &  Greenspan 


-  131  - 


Table  B-5:     TRAFFIC  GENERATED  BY  PROJECT  AT 
PROJECT  SITE,  1987 


Arrive 

Depart 

Total 

Employee 

Shuttle 
Bus 

Total 

Employee 

Shuttle 
Bus 

Total 

Two-way 
Traffic 

24-Hour 

1800 

310 

2110 

1800 

310 

2110 

4220 

6:00-9:00  A.M. 

600 

55 

655 

310 

55 

365 

1020 

Highest  Eight  Hours 
Project  (3:00  - 
11:00  P.M. ) 

810 

130 

940 

750 

130 

880 

1820 

On-Street  (10:00 
AM    -  6 • 00  P  M 

)  460 

65 

525 

660 

65 

725 

1250 

Peak  Traffic  Hour 
Project   (7:00  - 
8:00  A.M.) 

420 

30 

450 

150 

30 

180 

630 

On-Street  (4:30  - 
5:30  P.M.) 

85 

25 

110 

350 

25 

375 

485 

NOTE:     Project  =  Traffic  generated  by  proposed  Parking  Facility. 

On-Street  =  Traffic  generated  by  proposed  Parking  Facility  during  the  highest 
eight  consecutive  traffic  hours  or  peak  traffic  hour  based  on 
current  traffic  volumes  on  the  streets  which  serve  the  site  area. 

Source:     Linscott,  Law  and  Greenspan. 


The  project  traffic  engineer  has  projected  a  geographic  distribution  for  trips 
by  auto  using  the  parking  structure.     The  model  used  to  create  this  distribution 
is  based  upon  the  commute  patterns  of  employees  working  in  each  shift  at  the 
existing  data  center.     The  number  of  trips  estimated  to  be  generated  by  the  pro- 
ject on  each  link  of  the  street  system  is  shown  in  Table  B-6  (p,  133)  and  is  keyed 
to  the  map  shown  in  Figure  B-2   (p.  128). 


-  132  - 


Table  B-6: 

TRAFFIC  IN  STUDY 

AREA  GENERATED 

BY  PROJECT,  1987 

Link 

ADT 

Peak  Hour 

nignes L 
8  Hours 

6-9  A.M. 

1 
1 

oUU 

on 

9  9"^ 
ZZ  J 

on 

yu 

o 
Z 

du 

1  /,  n 

on 

yu 

J 

9  An 

7f» 

/u 

1  Tn 

1  nn 
iUU 

/, 

9  on 

iU  J 

1  $in 

iOU 

Tn 

JU 

c 

J 

1  An 

9  An 

ZOU 

on 
yu 

0 

Tin 

1  9n 
i  zu 

1  '^n 

iDU 

7 
1 

9Qn 

sn 
ou 

1  "^0 

1  JU 

^n 

_JU 

0 

9nn 
zuu 

9 1  n 

Z  iU 

9ftn 

ZOU 

Q 

O  JU 

9'^n 

Z  JU 

9«n 

ZOU 

J4U 

i  u 

JZ  u 

1  An 

i  hU 

/  u 

1  1 
1 1 

ion 

JOU 

An 

1  7n 
i  /  u 

on 
yu 

i  Z 

^  /  u 

7n 

9  9n 
zzu 

1  nn 

iUU 

1 

1 9  n 
izu 

"^n 

J  JU 

71; 

/  D 

An 

JH-U 

9  nn 

Z  UU 

An 

'tU 

1  c: 
i  J 

ju 

1  n 

on 
zu 

1  n 
i  u 

1 

JU 

1  n 

■jn 
JU 

1  n 

iU 

1  7 

'x  1  n 

fin 

1  An 

i  DU 

1 1  n 

1  R 
i  o 

J  y  u 

1  on 
lyu 

1  in 
1  JU 

1  Q 

1  no 

Q7n 

1  'X^ 

A  9n 
hzu 

9  in 

Z  JU 

9  1 

1  A  n 

An 
oU 

JU 

99 

Ann 

OUU 

on 

yu 

9  c; 
ZDD 

on 
yu 

9  Qn 
ZoU 

ODD 

*f  jU 

24 

^  '-r 

99Rn 

^7  '^ 

Q7n 

y  /  u 

JO  J 

25 

1170 

9Rn 

ZOU 

A  9n 
^zu 

Ai  n 
*nu 

26 

1  A 

mD 

All 

ou 

21 

A«n 

DJ 

Z  ID 

1  nn 

IUU 

A  nn 

jU 

i  /D 

Ai; 
oD 

29 

nn 

ID 

1  Tn 
i  JU 

Jj 

30 

1  An 

JU- 

7n 
/U 

'fU 

31 

■^9n 

JZU 

J  J 

1  "3  EC 

i  JD 

<in 

DU 

32 

470 

70 

210 

10 

33 

90 

25 

40 

10 

Source: 

Linscott,  Law  and 

Greenspan. 

-  133  - 


APPENDIX  C 
TRAFFIC  NOISE  IMPACT  ASSESSMENT 


BANK  OF  AMERICA  DATA  CENTER  PARKING  FACILITY 
San  Francisco,  California 


EE  75.414 


-  134  - 


APPENDIX  C 
TRAFFIC  NOISE  IMPACT  ASSESSMENT 


BANK  OF  AMERICA  DATA  CENTER  PARKING  FACILITY 
San  Francisco,  California 


EE  75.414 


-  134  - 


TABLE  OF  CONTENTS 

Page 


I  EXISTING  CONDITIONS  136 

II  FUTURE  ACOUSTIC  CONDITIONS  138 

III  ACOUSTIC  IMPACT  CRITERIA  139 

IV  IMPACT  ASSESSMENT  140 

APPENDIX 

C-I  FUNDAMENTAL  CONCEPTS  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  NOISE  141 

C-II  NOISE  MONITORING  EQUIPMENT  AND  PROCEDURES  145 

LIST  OF  TABLES 

C-1  SUMMARY  OF  MEASURED  DATA  136 

C-2  PREDICTED  TRAFFIC  INCREASES  138 

C-3  SUMMARY  OF  TRAFFIC  NOISE  ASSESSMENT  CALCULATIONS  140 

C-4  MEASURED  NOISE  LEVELS  IN  THE  STUDY  AREA  147 

C-5  MINIMUM  MEASURED  AMBIENT  149 

LIST  OF  FIGURES 

C-1  STUDY  AREA  MAP  SHOWING  NOISE  MEASUREMENT  POSITIONS  137 

C-2  TYPICAL  SOUND  LEVELS  MEASURED  IN  THE  ENVIRONMENT 

AND  IN  INDUSTRY  142 


-  135  - 


I:     EXISTING  CONDITIONS^ 


Noise  levels  were  measured  near  residential  buildings  in  the  vicinity  of 
the  proposed  project.     The  two  measurement  positions  are  shown  on  the  Study 
Area  map.  Figure  C-1   (p.   136).    Measurement  Position  1  is  on  Eleventh  Street, 
near  the  intersection  of  Kissling  and  Eleventh.    Measurement  Position  2  is 
on  Kissling  Street,  equi-distant  between  Eleventh  and  Twelfth  Streets. 

The  measurements  were  conducted  between  the  hours  of  3:30  AM  and  5:00  AM, 
and  4:00  PM  and  5:00  PM,  at  both  locations.     The  time  of  measurement  and 
the  measurement  positions  were  selected  based  on  a  review  of  land  use  maps  and 
traffic  data.     At  these  locations  during  the  measurement  times,  a  measurable 
increase  in  ambient  noise  level  could  occur  due  to  the  proposed  project.  There 
are  no  other  residential  locations  where  a  measurable  increase  in  ambient  noise 
is  projected  to  occur. 

The  measured  data  are  summarized  in  Table  C-1.     The  fundamental  concepts 
of  environmental  noise,  including  the  meaning  of  the  technical  terms  used  here, 
are  explained  in  Appendix  C-I  (pp.  140-144). 

Table  C-1:     SUMMARY  OF  MEASURED  DATA 


Position  Time/Date  90  50  10 


1 

3:30  AM, 

1/19/77 

49 

51 

61 

4:00  AM, 

1/20/77 

48 

51 

61 

4:00  PM, 

1/19/77 

61 

67 

76 

5:00  PM, 

1/20/77 

61 

66 

73 

2 

4:00  AM, 

1/19/77 

50 

53 

56 

5:00  AM, 

1/20/77 

51 

53 

56 

4:45  PM, 

1/19/77 

54 

57 

62 

4:15  PM, 

1/20/77 

53 

58 

66 

During  both 

the  daytime  and  nighttime  the  ambient 

was  controlled  by 

automo- 

biles,  trucks  and 

buses  on 

Eleventh, 

Twelfth,  Mission, 

Howard  and  Market 

Streets 

Data  were  collected  on  two  days  during  each  time  period  of  interest  to 
achieve  statistical  validity  in  the  data.     The  L90  and  L50  measurements  vary 
by  only  1  dBA  within  the  equivalent  time  periods;  the  Lios  were  more  variable 
and  differ  from  0  to  4  dBA  for  each  repeated  measurement.     The  project  noise 
consultant  is  of  the  opinion  that  the  measurement  data  show  excellent  statistical 
reliability,  based  on  the  consultant's  experience  with  environmental  noise 
monitoring. 


The  traffic  noise  appendix  is  based  upon  material  submitted  by  Mr.  Charles  M.  Salter. 


-  136  - 


A  complete  description  of  the  measured  data,  measurement  technique  and  noise 
monitoring  equipment  is  contained  in  Appendix  C-II. 

II:     FUTURE  ACOUSTIC  CONDITIONS 

If  the  project  is  constructed,  the  acoustic  changes  in  the  neighborhood 
would  be  caused  by: 

automobiles   (used  by  Bank  of  America  computer  center  employees) 
entering  and  leaving  the  parking  facility  during  various  times 
of  the  day  and  night ; 

shuttle  buses  picking  up  and  discharging  Bank  of  America  employees 
at  the  parking  facility  and  taking  them  to  and  from  the  data 
center ; 

vehicles  driving  within  the  building. 

The  shuttle  buses  would  be  nine-passenger  gasoline-powered  vans  which  generate 
approximately  the  same  sound  levels  as  a  typical  passenger  car.     Traffic  data 
provided  by  the  traffic  engineers  Linscott,  Law  and  Greenspan  indicated  that 
the  following  traffic  increases  would  be  expected  for  shuttle  buses  and  employee 
automobiles  at  the  indicated  time  periods. 


Table  C-2:     PREDICTED  TRAFFIC  INCREASES 


Location 

Time 

of  Day 

Proj  ect- 

Generated 

Vehicles 

%  Increase 
Over  Present 
Traffic 

Eleventh  Street 
near  Kissling 

3:00- 

4:00  AM 

26  shuttle 

buses 

110% 

On  Kissling 

7:00- 

8:00  AM 

30  shuttle 

buses 

90%^ 

On  Kissling 

4:00- 

5:00  PM 

25  shuttle 

buses 

100%^ 

If  the  employees  of  Bank  of  America  ignore  the  Bank's  written  request  that  they 
not  use  Kissling  Street,  then  these  figures  could  be  increased  to  140%  and  280%, 
respectively. 


Based  on  many  years  of  traffic  noise  monitoring  experience  and  computer 
simulation,  several  methodologies  have  been  developed  which  accurately  predict 
traffic  noise  levels.     One  of  the  first  and  most  successful  methodologies  is 
described  in  NCHRP  Report  117.'^    According  to  NCHRP  117,  a  100%  increase 
in  automobile  traffic  would  result  in  a  3  dBA  increase  in  traffic 
noise  levels.     However,  for  this  project,  this  would  produce  no 
increase  in  the  existing  ambient  noise  level,  because  the  predicted  noise 

Gordon  et  al.  Highway  Noise — A  Design  Guide  for  Highway  Engineers,  National 
Cooperative  Highway  Research  Program  Report  117,  1971. 


-  138  - 


levels  of  project-generated  vehicles  would  still  be  less  than  existing 
noise  levels.     The  ambient  would  continue  to  be  dominated  by  trucks, 
diesel  buses  and  other  noise  sources. 


Ill:  ACOUSTIC  IMPACT  CRITERIA 


The  acoustic  impact  of  the  project-generated  traffic  was  assessed  by  com- 
paring the  predicted  noise  levels  with  the  present  noise  environment  in 
the  Study  Area.     NCHRP  117,  accepted  by  the  U.  S.  Environmental  Protection 
Agency  and  the  Federal  Highway  Administration  as  a  method  for  predicting 
traffic  noise  levels,  includes  guidelines  for  estimating  impact  based  on 
the  increase  in  the  ambient. 

NCHRP  117  uses  three  degrees  of  impact:     "No  impact,"  "Some  Impact,"  or 
"Great  Impact,"  depending  upon  the  amount  by  which  the  predicted  noise 
levels  exceed  the  existing  noise  levels.     The  impact  categories  are  a 
measure  of  how  annoyed  the  community  would  be  within  the  new  noise  environ- 
ment-    The  impact  categories  are  described  in  terms  of  anticipated  community 
reaction. 

NO  IMPACT:  Rare  expressions  of  dissatisfaction  are  expected. 

SOME  IMPACT:  Some  individual  comment  and  reaction  are  expected, 

but  no  group  action  is  likely. 

GREAT  IMPACT:  Strong  individual  comment  and  reaction  are  expected, 

as  well  as  the  incipience  of  group  action. 

The  impact  of  the  proposed  project  traffic  is  determined  by  how  much  the 
predicted  noise  level  exceeds  the  present  noise  environment  in  accordance 
with  these  relationships: 

Increase  Over  the  Existing 

Ambient  Noise   Impact  Category 

Less  than  6  dBA  NO  IMPACT 

6-15  dBA  SOME  IMPACT 

Greater  than  15  dBA  GREAT  IMPACT 

For  this  study,  the  project  noise  consultant  assumed  that  an  increase  in 

the  L50  of  more  than  5  dBA  would  be  a  noise  impact,  based  on  the  NCHRP  117 
criteria. 


-  139  - 


IV:     IMPACT  ASSESSMENT 


Based  on  the  projected  future  noise  levels  and  the  criteria  discussed  in 
Section  III,  the  project  noise  consultant  predicts  there  would  be  no  noise 
impact  due  to  automobile  traffic  entering  and  leaving  the  facility  and  moving 
within  the  facility.     In  addition,  no  noise  impact  due  to  shuttle  bus  activity 
during  the  daytime  and  nighttime  hours  is  predicted. 

These  conclusions  were  derived  by  predicting  future  sound  levels  due  to 
existing  traffic  plus  maximum  project-generated  traffic  (including  potential 
employee  auto  traffic  on  Kissling  Street  mentioned  on  page  138)  at  the  resi- 
dences on  Kissling  Street  during  the  time  periods  of  interest. 

L50S  for  the  total  future  traffic  volumes  were  predicted  at  a  distance  of 
100'   from  the  travel  lane,  using  the  methodology  in  NCHRP  117.  Adjustments 
were  then  applied  to  account  for  the  distance  between  the  residences  and 
the  traffic  (+11  dBA)  and  the  effect  of  sound  reflections  off  the  building 
facades  along  Kissling  (+  3  dBA).     These  resulting  sound  levels  were  then 
compared  to  the  measured  L50S  during  those  periods  of  time.     Table  C-3  sum- 
marizes the  calculations. 

Table  C-3:     SUMMARY  OF  TRAFFIC  NOISE  ASSESSMENT  CALCULATIONS 
AT  RESIDENCES  ON  KISSLING  STREET 


Time 

Projected  Traffic 

Future  Traffic^Lso 

Measured 

Period 

L50  at  100' 

at  Residences 

L50 

3:00-4:00 

AM 

28 

42 

53 

7:00-8:00 

AM 

40 

54 

55 

4:00-5:00 

PM 

42 

56 

57 

These  data  indicate  that,  even  with  the  traffic  increases  projected  for  the 
project,  the  ambient  would  not  be  exceeded.     This  is  due  to  the  ambient  in 
the  project  vicinity  being  controlled  by  other  sound  sources  such  as  traffic 
on  Howard,  Folsom,  Eleventh  and  Twelfth  Streets  and  the  U.S.   101  freeway, 
electric  trolleys  on  Eleventh  Street  and  trucks  using  the  Foremost  parking 
lot  on  Twelfth  Street. 


Gordon  et  al^.  Highway  Noise — A  Design  Guide  for  Highway  Engineers,  National 
Cooperative  Highway  Research  Program  Report  117,  1971. 

Includes  both  existing  traffic  on  Kissling  and  projected  project-generated 
traffic. 


-  140  - 


Appendix  C-I:     FUNDAMENTAL  CONCEPTS  OF  ENVIRONMENTAL  NOISE 


This  section  provides  background  information  to  aid  in  understanding  the 
results  discussed  in  this  report. 

A.       Dimensions  of  Environmental  Noise 

Three  dimensions  of  environmental  noise  are  important  in  determining  subjec- 
tive response.     These  are: 

1)  the  intensity  or  level  of  the  sound; 

2)  the  frequency  spectrum  of  the  sound; 

3)  the  time-varying  character  of  the  sound. 

Airborne  sound  is  a  rapid  fluctuation  of  air  pressure  above  and  below  at- 
mospheric pressure.     Sound  levels  are  usually  measured  and  expressed  in 
decibels   (dB) ,  with  0  dB  corresponding  roughly  to  the  threshold  of  hearing. 

The  "frequency"  of  a  sound  refers  to  the  number  of  complete  pressure  fluctu- 
ations per  second  in  the  sound.     The  unit  of  measurement  is  the  cycle  per 
second   (cps)  or  Hertz   (Hz) .     Most  of  the  sounds  which  we  hear  in  the  envi- 
ronment do  not  consist  of  a  single  frequency,  but  of  a  broad  band  of  fre- 
quencies, differing  in  level.     The  quantitative  expression  of  the  frequency 
and  level  content  of  a  sound  is  its  sound  spectrum.     A  sound  spectriom  for 
engineering  purposes  is  typically  described  in  terms  of  octave  bands  which 
separate  the  audible  frequency  range   (for  human  beings,  from  about  20  to 
20,000  Hz)   into  nine  segments. 

Many  rating  methods  have  been  devised  to  permit  comparisons  of  sound  hav- 
ing quite  different  spectra.     Fortianately ,  the  simplest  method  correlates 
with  hioman  response  practically  as  well  as  the  more  complex  methods  (Parkin 
1964,  Hillquist  1967,  Galloway  et  al  1969,  Botsford  1969).^    This  method 
consists  of  evaluating  all  of  the  content  of  a  sound  in  accordance  with  a 
weighting  that  progressively  and  severely  deemphasizes  the  importance  of 
frequency  components  below  1000  Hz,  with  mild  deemphasis  above  5000  Hz. 
This  type  of  frequency  weighting  reflects  the  fact  that  h\iman  hearing  is 
less  sensitive  at  low  frequencies  and  extreme  high  frequencies  than  in  the 
frequency  midrange.     The  weighting  curve  most  often  used  is  called  "A" 
weighting,  and  the  level  so  measured  is  called  the  "A-weighted  sound  level," 
or  simply  "A-level." 

The  A-level  in  decibels  is  expressed  "dBA;"  the  appended  letter  "A"  is  a 
reminder  of  the  particular  kind  of  weighting  used  for  the  measurement.  In 
practice,  the  A-level  of  a  sound  source  is  conveniently  measured  using  a 
sound  level  meter  that  includes  an  electrical  filter  corresponding  to  the 
A-weighting  curve.     All  U.  S.  and  international  standard  sound  level  meters 
include  such  a  filter.     Typical    A-levels  measured  in  the  environment  and 
in  industry  are  shown  in  Figure  C-2   (p.  142). 


Complete  citations  presented  in  Bibliography,  pp.  65-66. 


-  141  - 


Decibels , 
A-Weighted 


CIVIL  DEFENSE  SIREN  (100') 
JET  TAKEOFF    (200 ' ) 

RIVETING  MACHINE 

EMERGENCY  ENGINE-GENERATOR  (6') 
DC-10  FLYOVER  (770') 

TEXTILE  WEAVING  PLANT 
SUBWAY  TRAIN    (20 ' ) 


PNEUMATIC  DRILL  (50") 

FREIGHT  TRAIN  (100') 
VACUUM  CLEANER  (10') 
SPEECH  (1') 


140 
130 
120 
110 

100 

90 

80 

70 

60 


ROCK  MUSIC  BAND 


PILE  DRIVER  (50') 

BOILER  ROOM 
PRINTING  PRESS  PLANT 

GARBAGE  DISPOSAL  IN  HOME  (3* 
INSIDE  SPORT  CAR,   50  MPH 


AUTO  TRAFFIC  NEAR  FREEWAY 
LARGE  STORE 
ACCOUNTING  OFFICE 


LARGE  TRANSFORMER  (200') 


50 


PRIVATE  BUSINESS  OFFICE 
LIGHT  TRAFFIC  (100') 
AVERAGE  RESIDENCE 


SOFT  WHISPER  (5 ' ) 
RUSTLING  LEAVES 


40 
30 
20 
10 


MINIMUM  LEVELS,  RESIDENTIAL 
AREAS  IN  CHICAGO  AT  NIGHT 


RECORDING  STUDIO 


THRESHOLD  OF  HEARING  IN 
YOUTHS    (1000-4000  Hz) 


0 


Figure  C-2 :         TYPICAL  SOUND  LEVELS  MEASURED  IN  THE  ENVIRONMENT  AND  IN 
INDUSTRY 


NOTE:  The  distance   (in  feet)   between  the  source  and  listener  is 

shown  in  parentheses. 


-  142  - 


Although  the  A-level  may  adequately  describe  environmental  noise  at  any 
instant  in  time,  the  fact  is  that  the  community  noise  level  varies  continu- 
ously.    Most  environmental  noise  includes  a  conglomeration  of  distant  noise 
sources  which  creates  a  relatively  steady  background  noise  in  which  no  par- 
ticular source  is  identifiable.     These  distant  sources  may  include  traffic, 
wind  in  trees,  industrial  activities,  etc.     These  noise  sources  are  rela- 
tively constant  from  moment  to  moment,  but  vary  slowly  from  hour  to  hour 
as  natural  forces  change  or  as  human  activity  follows  its  daily  cycle. 
Superimposed  on  this  slowly  varying  background  is  a  succession  of  identi- 
fiable noisy  events  of  brief  duration.     These  may  include  nearby  activities 
or  single  vehicle  passages,  aircraft  flyovers,  etc.,  which  cause  the  envi- 
ronmental noise  level  to  vary  from  instant  to  instant. 

In  this  report,  as  has  become  standard  practice,  the  time-varying  characte 
of  environmental  sound  is  accounted  for  statistically   (Kittelson  et  al_  1964, 
Griffiths  et  £l  1968,  Olson  1970,  Scholes  1970,  Gordon  et_  al  1971).  The 
statistical  descriptor  most  often  used  in  this  report  is  the  A-level  exceeded 
50%  of  the  time.     This  is  the  median  level  and  is  designated  by  the  symbol 

II  T  II 

^50- 

Quite  close  to  a  roadway,  however,  noise  levels  vary  much  more  from  moment 
to  moment,  and  human  response  may  relate  more  to  the  noise  from  individual 
vehicle  passages,  rather  than  to  the  median  sound  level.     LiO'  the  A-level 
exceeded  10%  of  the  time,  is  considered  a  good  measure  of  "average  peak" 
noise. 

At  the  other  end  of  the  statistical  scale  is  L90,  the  A-level  exceeded  90% 
of  the  time.     This  is  considered  a  good  measure  of  the  background  noise  at 
a  site. 

This  study  uses  single-number  descriptors  to  account  for  the  three  dimen- 
sions of  environmental  noise:     its  level,  frequency  spectrum,  and  time- 
varying  character.     The  descriptors  are  the  A-level  in  dB  exceeded  for  a 
specified  percentage  of  time:     10%   {Liq) ,  50%   (L50) /  or  90%   (L90) /  as 
appropriate . 

B.       Human  Reaction  to  Environmental  Noise 

The  effects  of  noise  on  people  can  be  listed  in  three  general  categories: 

1)  subjective  effects  of  annoyance,  nuisance,  dissatisfaction; 

2)  interference  with  activities  such  as  speech,  sleep,  learning; 

3)  physiological  effects  such  as  startle,  hearing  loss. 

The  sound  levels  associated  with  environmental  noise,  in  almost  every  case 
produce  effects  only  in  the  first  two  categories.     Unfortunately,  there  is 
as  yet  no  completely  satisfactory  measure  of  the  subjective  effects  of  noise, 
or  of  the  corresponding  reactions  of  annoyance  and  dissatisfaction.  This 
is  primarily  because  of  the  wide  variation  in  individual  thresholds  of  annoy- 
ance, and  habituation  to  noise  over  differing  individual  past  experiences 
with  noise   (Stevens  et  al  1955) . 


-  143  - 


Thus,  an  Important  parameter  in  determining  a  person's  subjective  reaction 
to  a  new  noise,  is  the  existing  noise  environment  to  which  one  has  adapted: 
the  so-called  "ambient"  noise.     "Ambient"  is  defined  in  the  San  Francisco 
Noise  Ordinance  as  "the  all-encompassing  noise  associated  with  a  given  en- 
vironment, being  a  composite  of  sounds  from  many  sources,  near  and  far" 
(S.  F.  Municipal  Code  1972) .     The  scheme  used  in  this  study  for  predicting 
noise  impact  due  to  the  proposed  project  is  based  upon  how  much  the  new 
noise  will  increase  the  ambient  noise  environment.     In  general,  the  more 
a  new  noise  exceeds  the  previously  existing  ambient,  the  less  acceptable 
the  new  noise  will  be  judged  by  the  hearers   (Galloway  et^  aJ  1969) . 

With  regard  to  increase  in  noise  level,  knowledge  of  the  following  rela- 
tionships will  be  helpful  in  understanding  the  quantitative  sections  of 
this  report  (Stevens  et^  al^  1955,  Beranek  1954)  : 

1)  Except  in  carefully  controlled  laboratory  experiments,  an  increase  of 
only  one  dB  in  A-level  cannot  be  perceived. 

2)  Outside  of  the  laboratory,  a  three-dB  increase  in  A-level  is  considered 
a  just-noticeable  difference. 

3)  A  change  in  A-level  of  at  least  5  dB  is  required  before  any  noticeable 
change  in  community  response  would  be  expected. 

4)  A  ten-dB  increase  in  A-level  is  subjectively  heard  as  approximately 
a  doubling  in  loudness,  and  would  almost  certainly  cause  an  adverse 
change  in  community  response. 


C.       Parameters  of  Traffic  Noise 

The  predictions  of  traffic  noise  developed  in  this  study  follow  the  method- 
ology of  the  Highway  Design  Guide   (Gordon  et_  a]^  1971).     In  this  procedure, 
three  groups  of  parameters  are  analyzed,  those  relating  to   (1)   the  traffic, 
(2)   the  roadway,  and   (3)   the  observer. 

The  traffic  parameters  that  affect  noise  are  the  number  and  type  of  vehicles 
which  pass  a  point  during    a  time  period  of  interest  and  the  average  speed 
of  the  vehicles.     Because  speed  affects  the  noise  generated  by  cars  and 
trucks  differently,  these  vehicle  categories  are  analyzed  separately;  the 
predicted  noise  levels  from  the  two  sources  are  then  combined. 

Traffic  noise  increases  as  the  number  and  the  average  speed  of  automobiles 
on  the  roadway  increases.     For  example,  if  the  automobile  traffic  volume 
should  double,  the  noise  level  from  automobiles  would  increase  by  about 
3  dB.     Should  the  speed  increase  to  half,  the  noise  level  from  automobiles 
would  decrease  by  about  6  dB.     The  engine-exhaust  system  and  the  tire-roadway 
interaction  are  prominent  contributors  to  the  overall  automobile  noise. 

Truck  noise  behaves  differently.     An  average  truck  generates  A-levels  about 
15  dB  higher  than  a  car;     the  noise  contribution  from  a  single  truck  is 
approximately  equal  to  that  from  30  cars.     Because  trucks  are  usually  op- 
erated at  nominally  constant  engine  rpm,  the  engine-exhaust  noise  does  not 


-  144  - 


change  with  road  speed;     truck  noise  is  therefore  virtually  independent  of 
the  vehicle  speed   (Galloway  et  al  1969) .     The  condition  of  the  truck  muffler 
is  very  important,  however;     A-levels  15  dB  higher  than  average  can  result 
from  improperly  muffled  trucks   (Kugler  et  al  1973) . 

The  major  roadway  parameter  that  affects  traffic  noise  is  the  slope,  or 
gradient.     For  example,  a  5%  road  grade  adds  about  3  dB  to  truck  noise 
(automobile  noise  is  not  affected  by  the  road  grade) .     Noise  resulting 
from  the  tire-roadway  interaction  can  be  influenced  by  the  characteristics 
of  the  tires  and  the  roadway  surface.     This  report  assumes  a  "normal"  sur- 
face:    moderately  rough  asphalt  or  concrete.     Variations  in  A-level  of 
+  5  dB  can  be  expected  for  surfaces  of  rough  asphalt  with  large  voids  or 
grooved  concrete  at  one  extreme  and  very  smooth,  seal-coated  asphalt  at 
the  other   (Galloway  et  al     1969) . 

The  "observer"  parameters  are  those  that  affect  the  relationship  of  the 
receiver's  position  to  the  vehicle-roadway  noise  source.     The  major  factor 
in  this  category  is  the  distance  from  the  observer  to  the  roadway;  the 
greater  the  distance,  the  lower  the  noise  level.     A  doubling  of  the  distance 
from  the  roadway   (for  example,  going  from  200  feet  to  400  feet,  or  from 
2000  feet  to  4000  feet)  will  reduce  the  traffic  noise  at  the  observer's 
position  by  about  4  dB.     Beyond  distances  of  a  mile,  the  drop-off  rate  is 
about  6  dB  per  doubling  of  distance;     the  additional  attenuation  results 
in  part  from  the  effect  of  atmospheric  absorption  of  sound  (Gordon  et^  al 
1971). 

Shielding  that  blocks  the  line-of-sight  from  the  observer  to  the  roadway 
is  another  "observer"  factor  affecting  traffic  noise  propagation.  The 
acoustical  effectiveness  of  the  shielding  depends  upon  the  extent  to  which 
it  blocks  the  line-of-sight,  as  well  as  upon  the  characteristics  of  the 
barrier  itself.     For  example,  if  a  barrier  blocks  only  half  the  view  of  a 
length  of  roadway  which  would  otherwise  be  fully  exposed,  the  noise  level 
reduction  would  be  limited  to  only  3  dB,  regardless  of  the  structure  of 
the  barrier  itself.     If  the  view  of  the  roadway  vehicles  is  completely 
shielded,  the  A-level  attenuation  by  a  solid  barrier  may  vary  from  5  dB 
for  low  barriers  to  a  maximum  of  about  24  dB  for  very  large  barriers. 
A  single  row  of  houses  may  reduce  roadway  noise  about  5  dB;  multiple 
rows  of  houses  will  provide  a  reduction  of  up  to  10  dB   (Kugler  et  al  1973) . 


Appendix  C-II:     NOISE  MONITORING  E(:)UIPMENT  AND  PROCEDURES 

To  obtain  the  data  in  this  report,  the  following  instruments  were  used: 

Bruel  &  Kjaer   (B&K)   4131  microphone  and  windscreen 

B&K  2203  precision  sound  level  meter 

B&K  156B/S45  environmental  noise  classifier 

B&K  4220  pistonphone 

B&K  2219  sound  level  meter 

B&K  3-meter  extension  cable 

Sony  TC-153SD  cassette  tape  recorder,  with  laboratory-grade  frequency 
response  characteristics 


-  145  - 


This  equipment  was  installed  in  an  automobile,  forming  a  mobile  measuring 
laboratory  which  could  be  transported  quickly  from  position  to  position 
with  minimum  set-up  time.     Measurements  were  made  at  each  position  for  a 
duration  of  at  least  15  minutes  to  comply  with  the  San  Francisco  Noise 
Ordinance  and  to  assure  statistical  validity  in  the  resulting  data.  The 
measurement  procedure  used  is  described  below. 

The  microphone  was  connected  to  the  3-meter  cable  and  placed  upon  a  tripod 
at  least  6'   from  the  mobile  laboratory.     A  calibration  signal  was  generated 
with  an  acoustical  calibrator  accurate  to  within  h  dB.     This  signal  was  used 
to  calibrate  the  sound  level  meter,  cassette  recorder,  and  environmental 
classifier.     The  amplified  microphone  signal  was  A-weighted   (filtered  for 
dBA)   and  then  analyzed  in  the  field  by  the  environmental  noise  classifier 
to  obtain  the  statistical  distribution  data  shown  in  Tables  C-1  and  C-3. 
The  operator  of  the  equipment  compiled  short  field  notes  describing  the 
sounds  existing  at  the  respective  positions;     these  notes  are  tabulated 
with  the  data  in  Table  C-3. 

Several  precautions  were  taken  in  the  field  to  insure  that  extraneous  sig- 
nals  (electrical  noise,  hum,  static,  etc.)  were  not  analyzed  as  environmental 
acoustical  data.     First,  the  amplified  microphone  signal  was  monitored  by 
the  operator  using  a  headset.     Secondly,   frequent  acoustical  calibrations 
were  applied  to  the  microphone,  and  these  calibration  readings  were  noted 
on  the  sound  level  meter  and  the  environmental  noise  classifier  while  simul- 
taneously being  tape-recorded  on  the  cassette  recorder  for  future  laboratory 
analysis.     Third,  a  second  sound  level  meter  was  used  to  monitor  visually 
the  A-weighted  levels  occurring  at  the  site,  and  these  readings  were  cross- 
checked against  the  A-weighted  statistical  data  generated  by  the  environ- 
mental classifier.     Fourth,  the  data  taped  by  the  cassette  recorder  were 
later  played  back  along  with  the  recorded  calibration  signals  to  obtain 
both  a  frequency  analysis  and  the  A-weighted  values  of  the  minimum  environ- 
mental noise  levels  occurring  at  each  position. 

Throughout  the  measurement  periods,  the  weather  was  generally  fair.  The 
winds  varied  from  calm  to  light  and  variable;     the  sky  conditions  varied 
from  clear  to  overcast;     the  temperature  ranged  from  45°  to  55°  F.  No 
measurements  were  conducted  in  rain  nor  in  high  winds,  thus  meeting  all 
the  requirements  of  ANSI  Si. 13-1971,   "Measurement  of  Sound  Pressure  Levels." 


-  146  - 


< 

Q 
D 
E- 
W 

W 


CO 
M 

w 

H 

o 

Q 

ID 


rft 

G 

r-l 

•H 

^ 

to 

(0 

CN 

■P 

■p 

cn 

d 

rH 

ar 

c 

u 

0 

* 

■p 

-p 

m 

cn 

c 

.H 

0) 

0 

u 

j-> 

■H 

c 

c 

fd 

0 

0 

0 

ft 

ro 

Ti 
C 

3  * 

O  to 

M  CU 

tr  u 

A( 

U  ^3 

(0  0 

CQ  W 


in 


CT^ 


■p 

r- 

Q 
\ 

r~- 

o 

\ 
cri 

e 

ro 

iH 

-H 

\ 

Eh 

cn 

-  o 

cn  +J 

O  3 

■P  nJ 

ns  cn 

0)  ^ 

u  0) 


O  cn  -p 
c 

cn  >i  (TJ 

X!  -P  ^^ 

U  (C3 

X  u  cn 

fo  cu  0) 

■P  t/)  Vl 


0 
o 

C  -H 

O  M-J 

X  o 
o 

3  -p 

u  cn 

+J  o 

cu  (u 

a  cn 

0)  s-i 

0)  tC3 

cn 

■P  73 

0)  u 

(U  (0 

•P  O 

CO  n: 
n 


■P 


c 
o 

cn 
XI 


<U  i-l 

cn  o 

•H  +J 

o 

cn  ^ 

M  -P 

CJ  u 

3  0) 

>H  rH 

+J  0) 


4-> 

0)  j:: 

rH 
&I  rH 

c 

•H  O 
C  -P 
U 

-P  c 

•H 

CO  rH 
O  CO 
-P  CO 
D  -H 
tCJ  « 


CO 
0) 

cn 
3 

XI 

rH 

O  cn 
O 

x:  u 

cn  u 
-P 

Cn  T3 


00 


o 
o 


rH 


Cn 


x: 

G 

-p 

•H 

rH 

o 

■P  rH 

rH 

rH 

<D 

n  cn 

1 

u 

c 

U 

CO 

O 

o 

c» 

-H 

-P  -H 

•H 

•H 

-p 

14H 

C  !^ 

(U 

■P 

■p 

Q) 

to  \ 

H 

■H 

1 

CD 

e 

!h 

XI 

cn 

u 

sh 

o 

(d 

0 

0 

■p 

u 

>1  rH 

EH 

ft 

CN 

CO 

X;  rH 

rH    CN  00 


ft 

\ 

O  <T> 
O  H 
••  \ 
rH 


cn  cn 

u  -H 
(0  X 
U  (0 

•P  -P  ^3 

M  CU 

O    -  M 

a  cn  o 

cn  M  e 

(0  u 

x: 

-P  T)  - 

rH     Q)  &> 

•-^    <-t  C 

4H  -H 

C  4h  T) 

O    3  n3 

e  O 

O  rH 

•H  >i 

MH  rH  ^ 

MH    $H  U 

(0    O  3 

^    O  iH 

■P  -P 


cn 

U 
(U 
-  M 

Xi  u 
+J  o 

rH  S 
rH 

3 


cn 
c 

•H 

U 


0) 

cn  cn 

CD  O 
•H  +J 
3 
fO 

cn  >i 
,V  XI 
u  u 

3  (0 
5h  d) 
-P  C 


CN 


ro 


rH 

rH 

CO 

k£) 

VD 

c 

C 

■p 

e 

0 

o 

c 

U 

cu 

4-> 

•H 

0 

o8 

to 

CO 

•o 

cn 

CD 

to 

u 

rH 

Sh 

>. 

a; 

CO 

o 

g 

T) 

o 

10 

O 

cu 

M 

-H 

■H 

O 

CJ 

EC 

s 

^ 

H 

S 

IH 

cn 

(d 

Ti  3 

0 

rH 

s 

MH 

rH 

3 

C  ^^ 

e 

e 

MH 

K 

0 

c 

(0 

0 

0 

fO  4-) 

0 

0 

0 

Sh 

C 

0 

M 

Sh 

C 

4J 

0 

■P 

C  M 

ip 

HH 

+J 

0 

CO 

i-a 

C 

Sh  cu 

CO 

u 

u 

c  cu 

0 

C 

0  Cn 

U 

u 

0) 

u 

•H 

•H 

!o  ,H 

CO 

n 

0 

x:  C 

-H 

C 

■H 

•H 

e 

Sh 

4-1 

0  o 

CU 

CO 

■H 

Q) 

Ip 

o 

>P 

14H 

0 

+J 

•H 

-C  -H 

O 

0 

CO 

-P  > 

m 

cn 

UH 

x; 

Ip 

cn 

O 

rO 

Cn  ^ 

■H 

& 

CO 

fC  (C 

(0 

rH 

(0 

-p 

(0 

rH 

cu 

0  CU 

0 

0 

3 

-H 

0  o 

u 

0 

>H 

rH 

0 

rH 

-P 

Uh  > 

> 

tc3 

XI  cn 

-P 

H 

■p 

CU 

rH 

ro 

<N 

00 

CN 

00 

CN 

00 

V0 


ft 

\ 
o  o 

O  CN 
••  \ 
in  rH 


rH 

(0 

C 

o 

cn 

•H 

rH 

cn 

CU 

(0 

r> 

u 

<U 

u 

rH 

0 

(U 

CO 

CO 

cu 

•H 

■p 

0 

nJ 

c 

o 

•H 

Tj 

CU 

c 

V-l 

•H 

3 

CO 

<0 

ro 

CO 

(U 

(U 

.C 

o 

■P 

>H 

3 

O 

Q> 

cn 

•P 

(0 

<u 

^ 

CO 

CU 

-H 

0 

CU 

■p 

CO 

c 

cu 

(0 

o 

o 

•H 

3 

4H 

u 

•H 

cn 

c 

Tj 

•H 

C 

cn 

3 

CO 

cn 

cu 

x: 

o 

o 

•H 

-H 

-§ 

c 

-H 

cr 

C 

•H 

rs 

TJ 

Sh 

(0 

CO 

cn 

cu 

cu  o 

3 

P  o 
C  cn 


cu  Cn 

>  c 

•rl  -H 

+J  rH 

U  rH 

CU  O 

•r-l  U 

XI  -P 


(0  -P 

•H  to 

o  u 

•H  -H 

C  73 


C 

o 

CJ  . 

cn 

cn  (U 
cu  u 


x:  c  (U 

o  -H  cn 

cu  -H 

Eh  —  O 

*  H  C 


-  147  - 


cn 


0 

It 

2t 

iH 

r-t 

+J 

G 

-p 

C 

rH 

0 

f-i 

0 

iH 

tn 

rH 

c 

CD 

c 

o 

0 

cl 

It 

0 

sh 

Ui 

•H 

w 

4-1 

0 

13 

A 

ve 

on 

XI 

St 

ID 

c 

rH 

0 

CN 

-H 

U3 

(1) 

e 

Q) 

e 

0 

u 

u 

+J 

Sh 

u 

0 

(0 

r-H 

•iH 

o 

2 

(d 

0) 

0 

04 

CO 

n 

CM 

m 

Jh  -P 
n3  ^  m 


u 

cn 

cn 

0 

4:: 

1 

to 

<U 

C 

-p 

U 

-p 

■p 

rH 

•H 

cn 

0 

iH 

rH 

u 

rH 

U 

rH 

c 

-P 

0 

rH 

•H 

cn 

0 

•rH 

0 

cu 

cn 

c 

rH 

e 

cn 

c 

•H 

0 

ng 

SS 

»• 

0 

> 

(/I 

-H 

-H 

cn 

c 

C 

43 

rH 

rd 

-P 

0) 

0 

-P 

u 

0] 

rH 

cn 

cn 

!H 

rH 

U) 

cn 

rH 

M 

cn 

-H 

rH 

u 

•H 

C 

rQ 

C 

cn 

■p 

•H 

U 

C 

-H 

c 

tn 

0 

(^! 

M 

M 

0 

c3 

tn 

:3 

!h 

x; 

■P- 

C 

-P 

cn 

■p 

cn 

> 

cn 

cn 

W 

•H 

Q> 

rg 

M 

■P 

■H 

^: 

0 

0) 

0 

rH 

rH 

U 

4:: 

(U 

■P 

u 

4-> 

w 

+J 

U 

cn 

C 

3 

0 

>1 

c 

!h 

•H 

(0 

rH 

(0 

fO 

rH 

u 

0 

4J 

rH 

e 

MH 

■p 

rH 

CN 

n 

CN 

n 

o 

rH 


in 


ID 


C 

o 


U 
PQ 


cn  U 


M 

U 
(0 

o 

0 

u 
-p 

-p 
cn 
o 

e 

(D 
!h 
O 


cn  TJ 
c  Sh 
!h  (0 
O  5 
43  O 
cn  X 
O 

iP  C 
O 

>i  o 


m 

0) 

m 

c 

o 


H  B  <-{ 

S   <4H  O  ^  MH 

(U   <4H  cn  CD 

<U     CC  rH  3  +J 

!h    iH  O  >H 

MH   -P  &4  +J 


> 
O 
43 


CN 


00 


43 

43 

-P 

-P 

e 

rH 

0 

CN 

CU 

no 

rH 

-H 

rH 

-P 

iH 

4:: 

CO 

CJ 

(d 

C 

-P 

43 

ta 

+J 

>i 

•H 

0 

CJ 

-P 

rH 

cn 

UH 

0 

CU 

rH 

43 

rH 

MH 

cn 

rH 

rH 

+J 

<: 

m 

S3 

CU 

rH 

C 

iH 

-H 

C 

rH 

0 

■P 

0 

rH 

0 

n 

43 

-P 

C 

CO 

+j 

>i 

u 

•H 

-P 

ip 

>1 

>i  MH 

■H 

e 

CM 

(d 

1) 

CU 

(d 

cn 

ip 

0 

cn 

rH 

^ 

rH 

cn 

rH 

Vh 

CD 

(U 

UH 

CO 

0 

u 

rH 

0 

rH 

0 

0 

OJ 

(d 

rH 

H-l 

73 

■P 

0 

iH 

•H 

iH 

Vh 

0 

0 

C 

-H 

iH 

0 

iH 

-rl 

0 

UH 

H-l 

fa 

(d 

rd 

(d 

-P 

(d 

-p 

fd 

> 

rH 

CN 

n 

CN 

n 

n 
in 


Ln 


CO 

in 


o 
in 


in 


in 


H-l 

(d 

s 

Q 

<: 

\ 

\ 

CU 

(U 

0 

cn 

0 

e 

0 

rH 

c 

-rl 

\ 

•H 

Eh 

rH 

-P 

C 

■p 

0 

c 

U 

Cn 

0 

(U 

UT 

fr 

nc 

-J- 

rH 

CU 

1 

C 

C 

cn 

s 

n3 

u 

0 

0 

CO 

0 

•H 

■H 

■H 

-rl 

cn 

CU 

■P 

-P 

CN 

« 

MH 

CU 

H 

■H 

rd 

43 

cn 

U 

CO 

rd 

0 

0 

ro 

0 

ip 

E^ 

ft 

rH 

rH 

0 

o 

CN 


in 


in  cn 

"sP  rH 
rH 


in  o 

rH  CN 
•  \ 
rH 


-  148  - 


Table  C-5 :    MINIMUII  MEASURED  AMBIENT 


Octave  Band  Sound  Pressure  Levels  in  Decibels 
Position      Overall      dBA        31.5     63     125     250     500     1000  2000  4000  8000 

1  64-66  46-        59-      60-  54-    49-     44-      42       36-     28-  21 

49  62        62     56      52      46  38  32 

2  68  51  64         66     57       52       49-       46       43-     31  22 

50  44 


-  149  - 


