DOCUMENT RESUME 
ED 241 828 CE 800 132 


TITLE New Life for Old Houses. The CIRcular: Consumer 
Information Report 28. 

INSTITUTION Bank of America NT & SA, San Francisco, CA. 

PUB DATE Mar 81 

NOTE 5p.; For related documents, see CE 800 121-133. 

PUB TYPE Guides - Non-Classroom Use (055) 


EDRS PRICE MFU1 Plus Postage. PC Not Available from “DRS. 

DESCRIPTORS Building Plans; Corsumer Education; *Facility 
Improvement; Financial Support; Guidelines; *Housing; 
Inspection; Pamphlets; *Purchasing 

IDENTIFIERS Contractors; PF Project 


ABSTRACT 

This report offers suggestions on finding, planning, 
and financing a home rehabilitation project. Information on finding a 
"fixer-upper" includes deciding where to look, learning what to look 
for in a house and neighborhood, learning about local building and 
zoning codes, deciding what characteristics of houses and 
neighborhoods are important, and finding out whether other houses in 
the neighborhood have been renovated. Detailed guidelines for 
inspecting a house both inside and outside are presented along with a 
discussion about having a professional inspector assess the house. 
Recommendations on financing the project include developing a plan 
for the rehabilitation project prior to visiting a lender and 


investigating options for financing. Descriptions are given of 
conventional loans and federal, state, and local government loan 
programs. Recommendations on finding and hiring professional 
contractors and information on possible grants and tax exemptions 
available to renovators of houses with historic value are included. 
Information in this report is current at the time of printing, March 
1981, but is subject to change. (DC) 


RAERAKKERKERKEERKEKEKKREKKKEERERREREREKKEEKEEKKEKRREKKEKKERKREKEKKEKKRKRKRREE 


* Reproductions supplied by EDRS are the best that can be made e 


* from the original document. . 
RAEEAEAAEKREAEKEREREEKEKEREREKEKEKREREKEERRERERKREEREKKEEEERREERKKEEREEKRUEREEK 


ED241828 “ 


FOO 1/32 


The CiRcular™ 
Consumer Information Report 28 


\ 


“PERMISSION TO REPRODUCE THIS 
MATERIAL IN MICROFICHE ONLY 
HAS BEEN GRANTED BY 

Albert J. Dytch 
TO THE EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES 
INFORMATION CENTER (ERIC).” 


This to emer 


U.S. DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION 
NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF EDUCATION 
EDUCATIONAL RESOURCES INFORMATION 


CENTER (ERIC) 
it has been reproduced as 


the person or organization 


nges have been made to improve 


aw OF OPINIONS Stated in this docu 


New Life for Old Houses °= 


cessarily represent official NIE 


Buying a fixer-upper can make owning ahome more affordable, get you 
more house for your money, and give you the satisfaction of revitalizing 
a bit of the past. This report discusses what's invoived in finding, 
planning, and financing a home rehabilitation project. 


If you have some determination, imagina- 
tion, and a little pioneer spirit, buying and 
rehabilitating an older or run-down house 
may be a practical choice in today's housing 
market. Fixer-uppers usually have low pur- 
chase prices because their condition or lo- 
cation is often less than desirable. Also, you 
may be able to take advantage of special 
rehabilitation financing programs. 


But, don't start rolling up your sleeves yet; 
renovating a house isn't a good idea for 
everyone. You'll need to understand what's 
involved in finding the right house, financing 
the project, and getting the work done be- 
fore you decide whether rehabbing will work 
for you. 

Arehabilitation project can involve anything 
from making basic repairs to gutting and 
rebuilding the interior of a house. It may 
also include restoration of a house's histori- 
cal features. The work you li have to do will 
depend on the house you choose. 


Finding a Fixer-Upper 


Houses needing renovation can be found 
throughout California. You can find poten- 
tial proiects by checking newspaper clas- 
sified ads and with real estate brokers. Look 
for houses described as “fixer-uppers,” 
“handyman specials,” “neglected,” or 
“needs work.” The newspaper may also list 
auctions of foreclosed property and estate 
sales where prime rehab bargains can 
sometimes be found. 


Real estate agents and newspaper ads can 
also give you an idea of prices and charac- 
teristics of individual houses, as well as 
where you're likely to find renovation prop- 
erties. Real estate agents, lenders, and 
local government agencies may know of 
neighborhoods where community revi- 
talization efforts are underway. 


WHERE TOLOOK While you might finda 
fixer-upper in any neighborhood, older or 
run-down areas are the most obvious 
places to look. Though you may not have 
previously considered certain areas the 
most desirable places tv live, keep an open 
mind and visit as mary neighborhoods as 
possible to get the complete picture of 
rehab possibilities in your community. 


DO YOUR HOMEWORK 6Before you 
begin looking at houses and neigh- 
borhoods, get an overview of what to look 
for. Books on inspecting houses and on 
old-house construction can give you an 
idea of how to evaluate houses. Talk to 
knowledgeable friends or other renovators. 
Find out if there is a restoration or rehabilita- 
tion society in the area. You can also con- 
tact building associations or contractors for 
labor and materials costs as well as local 
building requirements and procedures. 


When you've narrowed your search io 
specific neighborhoods, ask your city or 
county planning department about the zon- 
ing and building codes for those areas. Zon- 
ing ordinances tell you what kind of im- 
provements you are allowed to make and 
how the buildings in an area can be used. 
For example, scme neighborhoods are 
zoned only for single-family houses, while 
in others, duplexes and apartments are 
allowed. 


Understanding the local building code will 
help you decide on the practicality of rehab- 
bing a particular house. The code describes 
minimum standards for construction and 
which materials must be used. 


lf you're planning tc rehab your house a 
section at a time, find out whether the build- 


ing code places a limit on how much of the 
house you can improve before you're re- 
quired to bring the entire building up to 
modern standards. Under some codes, the 
limit is based on a percentage of the re- 
placement cost of the house; under others, 
on a percentage of the total floor area of the | 
house. 


WHAT TO LOOK FOR As you iook, con- 
sider those characteristics of houses and 
neighborhoods most important to you, such 
as distance from your job, location of 
schools, shopping areas, and transporta- 
tion. Also note the following: 


Age and Size of Homes You may have a 
choice between older homes with historic 
value and newer houses, which may need 
fewer major repairs. Note the sizes of the 
houses, lots, and yards. Is there room to 
add on, if needed? 


Services and Businesses __ ifthe house is 
in a run-down neighborhood, you might find 
abandoned businesses, closed schools, 
etc. How much of an inconvenience would 
this be to you and your family? 


Public Safety Although you can get an 
idea of what living in a neighborhood might 
be like by driving through it once or twice, 
plan to visit any area that you are seriously 
considering at different times of the day 
and week. This will give you a more real- 
istic picture of any problems that exist. Ask 
local businesspeople, law enforcement offi- 
cials, and, possibly, your prospective neigh- 
bors about the crime rate and any other 
proviems. 


OTHER RENOVATORS An important 
consideration in deciding on a neigh- 
borhood is whether others have rehabili- 
tated homes in the area. It’s not always a 
good idea to be the first renovator on the 
*0ck. 

While one rehabilitated home can certainly 
encourage the upgrading of an entire 
neighborhood, the process can take years 
or may not heppen at all. If you are the first 
to improve a house and the rest of the 
neighborhood continues to decay, it will be 
difficult to recover the cost of rehabbing the 
property when you want to sell. The pres- 
ence of other renovators can mean a safer 


COPYRIGHT © BANK OF AMERICA NT&SA 1981 


investment, since it usually indicates that a 
neighborhood revitalization effort is already 
underway. 


Meet others who are rehabilitating homes 
a3 soon as you can. They can be your best 
resources for finding a house and helping 
you gei the work done. 


A Closer Look 


When you know what types of houses you 
can choose from, it’s time to narrow down 
the possibilities. Think about what's most 
important to you in terms of a house's size, 
location, and condition and then arrange to 
walk through those houses that best meet 
your requirements. 


KEY QUESTIONS As you assess the 
practicality of each house for rehabbing, 
consider the following questions: 


Can You Afford It? You should have a 
clear idea of how much you can spenc on 
the project. In addition to the purchase price 
and the cost of improvements, you should 
figure in general home ownership ex- 
penses (maintenance, utilities, insurance 
etc.). If you won't be living in your “new” 
home while the work is underway, remem- 
ber that you'll be paying operating costs for 
two homes. 


As a buffer against unexpected expenses, 
suc’: as work delays or price increases, 
rehab experts recommend that you add 
10% to 25% of the total estimate to your final 
cost projections. Break down the final figure 
into monthly payments to decide whether 
the project is still within your budget. For 
help in estimating other home ownership 
expenses, see Report #12 in this series, 
Steps to Buying a Home. 


is Rehabbing Right for You? Along with 
whether vou and your family can afford the 
project, think carefully about whether you 
are prepared to handle the personal incon- 
venience that usually goes along with a 
construction job. The work probably will be 
messy and will disrupt your everyday 
routine. If you'll be working on or supervis- 
ing the renovation, it will take up most of 
your free time. De'ays in getting materials 
and other common setbacks can also add 
to the disorder. Be realistic in deciding if you 
and your family can handle these pitfalls. 


Inspect the House 


One way to keep surprises to a minimum is 
to know the exact condition of the house 
before you buy it. You can inspect the house 
yourself (with the seller's permission), and, 
if you're still interested, verify your findings 
by hiring a proiessional housing inspector. 


Although you'd probably check out any 
house thoroughly, a potential rehab prop- 
erty warrants a more detailed examination. 
Don't take the seller's or broker's word for 
the house's condition. Although the seller 
may point out obvious defects, he or she will 


2 


not be responsible for any problems that 
turn up after the sale is closed. 


Your examination will help you decide if the 
house is worth the expense of a proftes- 
sional opinion. Your findings may also as- 
sist you in negotiating a purchase price with 
the seller. Be prepared to get a litte dirty 
and take along the foliowing items: 

¢ Pocket knife or ice pick 

° Flashlight 

* Tape measure 

* Magnet 

* Carpenter's level 

e Marble 

¢ Screwdrivers (assorted sizes) 


Also, make a list of the following parts of the 
house, checking off each one as you evalu- 
ate it. 


INSIDE Look at the general design and 
practicality of the floorplan, as well as the 
overall condition of the walls, floors, and 
interior structure of the house. Are room 
sizes acceptable? Are traffic patterns prac- 
tical? Some older homes may have kitch- 
ens and bathrooms that are substandard 
for today’s requirements. Note what it might 
take to renovate them. You can find out if the 
house has been remodeled by checking 
with the building department to see if any 
building permits were issued. You can also 
find out if the work was done according ‘o 
code. 


Start at the attic and work your way down. 
Look for water stains on the undersides of 
the roof and on the rafters. Also check the 
beams and rafters for cracks. Find out 
whether the house is adequately insulated. 
(If it isn’t, make a note to have it done later.) 


Check all staircases and floors for stability. 
If it's safe, jump on the floors and stairs to 
check for gaps between the boards or ex- 
cessive vibration, which may indicate struc- 
tural damage. Use the level or roll a marble 
to see if the floors are flat. You can also use 
the level to make sure the staircases and 
walls are vertical. 


Examine the walls and ceilings for water 
stains, peeling wallpaper, and rotted or 
loose plaster. These may signal serious 
leaks. Damaged areas of walls may have to 
be replaced. Also note whether layers of old 
wallpaper will require stripping. 


Open and close all of the windows to make 
sure they work properly. If they are jammed, 
it could mean structural damage or merely 
that they've been painted shut. Check the 
frames and floors below the windows for 
signs of decay or water damage. 


Use your flashlight to investigate the fire- 
place and chimney unit, noting whether the 
flue is clear and the damper works. Is the 
unit securely attached to the building? Look 
for crumbling mortar or cracks, which will 
have to be repaired. Even though they ap- 
pear to be in good shape, some fireplaces 
in older homes may need an overhaul to 
meet the local safety code requirements. 


If you're considering restoring the historical 


3 


details of the house, note any trim, fixtures, 
or other items which may be difficult to re- 
pair or replace. Many older homes have 
features that must be custom-made today. 


A thorough examination of the basement 
area and crawl space can reveal a lot about 
the structural condition of the house. Look 
for signs of dampness, such as rust or mil- 
dew on ground-level wood or equipment. 
This may indicate regular flooding. Exam- 
ine the beams, posts, and joists. They 
should be free of sagging and cracks. Use 
your knife to probe the wood sill at the top of 
the foundation for rot or decay, usually 
caused by moisture or insects. 


If the mechanical systems of the house are 
working, find out their condition. Turn on the 
heater and locate each duct to see if all 
parts of the house are adequately heated. 
Use your magnet to determine what kind of 
plumbing exists. The magnet will cling to 
iron pipes, but not to copper, lead, or brass. 
Old or rusted iron piping may have to be 
replaced. 


Turn on several faucets (hot and cold) and 
flush a toilet to make sure the water pres- 
sure doesn’t decrease sharply. Find out if 
the water heater works, what kind of condi- 
tion it's in, and whether it has the capacity to 
meet your needs. 


Although you'll probably need professional 
help for a thorough check of the house's 
electrical system, you can look at a few 
things yourself. Find out how much power is 
going into the house by asking the seller or 
looking for the information on the master 
switch and fuse box. If you can't find the 
information, ask the utility company. 


Electrical systems of houses built before 
1950 frequently need expansion or re- 
placement to meet modern needs. In Caili- 
fornia, the average household needs 150 
amps. 


Locate ail of the lightirg fixtures and electri- 
cal outlets in each room; make sure there 
are enough and that they are conveniently 
located. Check the exposed wiring for 
cracking or fraying. 


OU; 3#IDE Any serious problem in the 
foundation of the house can indicate struc- 
tural damage that would be very expensive 
to repair. Pull back any weeds or shrubbery 
to get a clear view and work your way 
around the entire foundation, looking for 
cracks, uneven settling, or any damage that 
may cause water seepage. Check brick or 
stone foundations and chimneys for crum- 
bling mortar and cracks. 


Use your knife to probe the wood sill on the 
foundation and wooden porches for dam- 
age from moisture and insects. Tunnels 
from the ground to the wood or piles of 
coarse sawdust along the foundation are 
probably signs of carpenter ants or ter- 
mites. Probe any suspicious areas with a 
knife. Because insect damage is often hard 
to detect, you should call in a professional 
termite inspector, if you're seriously in- 
terested in the house. 


Observe the general condition of the ex- 
terior walls, siding, shingles, etc. Excessive 
peeling or blistering paint indicates serious 
water problems. Use the level to make sure 
walls and frames are square. 


If it is possible—and safe—go out onto the 
roof to look for holes and cracked or missing 
shingles or tiles. Check the roof's water- 
proofing and drainage system. Find out 
whether water drains well off the property. 
Note the general condition of the rain gut- 
ters and downspouts. Do the downspouts 
Carry water away from the foundation? 


Don't walk away from the house without 
double-checking your list to see that all your 
questions have been answered. Be sure to 
note any further research you must do such 
as contacting the utility company for the 
amount of power and the building depart- 
ment for code violations. 


A PROFESSIONAL OPINION A profes- 
sional inspection report wili include a de- 
scription of the house's problems with cost 
estimates for some repairs. Fees range 
from $50 to $200, depending on the conui- 
tion of the house and the amount of detail in 
ithe report. 


The inspection can be done by a housing 
inspector, contractor, architect, or engineer 
who is knowledgeable about code require- 
ments and the structure and mechanical 
systems of a house. You may be able to find 
an inspector through other rehabbers or a 
local rehab organization. Or, try looking in 
the telephone directory's Yellow Pages 
under “Building Inspection Services.” 


Although housing inspectors are not re- 
quired by law to have licenses, you may 
want to hire one who has been certified by 
the California Board of Registered Con- 
struction Inspectors. You can contact the 
board's Sacramento office at (916) 323- 
2556 to find out if a particular inspector is 
certified. If an architect, contractor, or some 
nther professional is doing the job, check 
with their local associations (such as the 
American Institute of Architects) or the Con- 
tractors’ State License Board (listed in the 
telephone directory under “California, 
State of") to verify that they are licensed. 


You might also ask any prospective in- 
spectors for copies of some recent reports 
and names of former customers so that you 
can check the quality of their work. 


Make sure the inspector knows what you 
intend to do with the house—whether you 
want to restore it to its original condition or 
plan to knock out walls and make other 
alterations. He or she usually can tell you 
what's worth saving and what should be 
replaced. You may want to accompany the 
inspector to find out more about the house. 


Many inspectors use a standard form for 
rating each aspect of the house. They may 
also prepare a more detailed report that 
gives suggestions on what should be done 
to meet minimum code requirements and 
head off any major problems. This report 
also may include estimates that you can 


use as a Starting point to figure your basic 
renovation costs. 


Finding the Money 


When you've settled on a house, it’s time to 
look for the money to pay for the purchase 
and rehabilitation. Before you start inves- 
tigating financing options, you'll need to 
prepare information on the project and on 
your persona financial situation. 


THE PROJECT PLAN When you visit a 
lender, you'll need a detailed outline of the 
work to be done and cost estimates. 
Though the information required by differ- 
ent lenders varies, here are the basic points 
you should include: 

« The county assessor's legal description of 
the property, listing the address, lot and 
tract number, and parcel number. 

* The house’s age, dimensions of the house 
and lot, and number of rooms. 

Exact drawings and specifications of 
planned improvements, with all costs bro- 
ken down. 

¢ The names and license numbers of con- 
tractors who gave you estimates. (You can 
get estiniates without signing contracts.) 

* Copies of any agreements you've made 
with the sezler. 


You may also want to show a prospective 
lender evidence of other community revi- 
talization efforts (flyers, newsletters, etc.), 
any proof of the house's historical or ar- 
chitectural significance, and the prices of 
other homes recently sold in the area. 


This information wit! not only help the lender 
evaluate your loan request, but will show 
that you've done your homework and con- 
sidered all aspects of the project. 


The lender will alsc ask for a personal fi- 
nancial statement, detailing your income 
and expenses. For help in preparing your 
statement, see Report #5 in this series, 
How to Prepare a Personal Financial 
Statement. 


ARRANGING FINANCING Depending 
on the location of the house you want to buy 
and the amouri. of renovation needed, you 
may be able to choose from several differ- 
ent methods of financing. Institutional lend- 
ers (such as banks, savings and loans, ana 
credit unions) offer conventional and, 
perhaps, some government-insured loans 
for buying a house and making im- 
provements. You may also qualify for a lo- 
cal, state, or federal government loan of- 
fered through local governmen* agencies 
and institutionai lenders. Usually, your 
property must de located in a designated 
rehab area. 


Ask other renovators and the local planning 
or housing department whether any special 
rehab programs are available. Also contact 
several lenders to find out what types of 
loans they offer. If you are lucky enough to 
have severa! options, you'll want to find a 


4 


loan that pays for as much of the project as 
possible, at the lowest cost to you. Com- 
pare lenders’ loan policies and terms, in- 
cluding interest rates, down payment re- 
quirements, loan fees, and repayment 
periods. 

You should also check on any additional 
eligibility requirements for government re- 
habilitation loan programs. For example, 
you might have to meet certain income 
standards to qualify. 


Following are some types of loans that 
may be offered and some basic points for 
comparison. 


CONVENTIONAL LOANS Most institu- 
tional lenders offer conventional loans— 
those with no government backing—for 
purchasing homes. Since various types of 
home loans are currently available in Cali- 
fornia, you should ask several lenders 
which ones they offer. For information on 
the different home loans and how tney 
work, see Report #12 in this series, S’eps 
to Buying a Home. 


Most conventiona! home loans are for 
the purchase-money only; you'll probably 
have to finance the rehabilitation through 
another source, such as a government 
program. 


GOVERNMENT LOAN PROGRAMS 
Federal, state, and local governments may 
offer one or more types of loans for buying 
and rehabilitating homes. 


FHA and VA You may be qualified for a 
home loan insured by the Federal Housing 
Administration (FHA) or guaranteed by the 
Veteran's Administration (VA). Both types 
of loans are available through approved in- 
Stitutional lenders as well as through spe- 
cial rehab programs. The interest rate and 
down payment requirements for FHA and 
VA loans are typically lower than for most 
conventional loans. 


In addition to insuring purchase-money 
loans, the FHA, under its Title | program, 
also insures home improvement loans. The 
FHA determines what types of im- 
provements you must make and sets inter- 
est rates, repayment periods, and maxi- 
mum loar amounts. Your lender may also 
set other restrictions within the FHA 
guidelines. 


HUD Local government agencies and 
some institutional lenders offer low-interest 
rehabilit tion loans funded by Community 
Development Block Grants (CDBG) from 
the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban 
Development (HUD). To qualify, you must 
live in a designated CDBG area and meet 
local and federal eligibility requirements. 
CDBG loans are usually limited to individu- 
als with low or moderate incomes. 


Neighborhood Housing Services 
(NHS) NHS programs offer home im- 
provement luans and advice on locating a 
house and doing the work. NHS is a 
cooperative effort of federal and local qov- 
ernment, local lenders, and private citizens, 
which encourages revitalization of specific 


Historic Preservation 


If your house has an important history or is 
an example of a classic architectura! style, 
you may qualify for a grant or an exemption 
on your federal income tax that will cover 
part of your renovation expenses. You will 
have to research and document the house's 
background according to state and federal 
guidelines. Also, your exterior im- 
provements will be limited to restoration of 
the original design. 


If you think your house may qualify, find out 
the guidelines and get started on the re- 
search before you make your improvement 
plans. Otherwise, you might change or 
demolish something important to the ar- 
chitecture or history of the house 


If the seller cannot tell you about the house's 
past, you may be able to piece together its 
history fron records at city hall, your local 
library, newspaper, historical society, and 
information from the neighbors. Try to find 
out when the house was built, who the past 
owners have been, and what the house 
looked like originally. You may be able to get 
copies of the original construction plans 
from the building department or the county 
recorder’s Office. 


If there are other renovators in the neigh- 
borhood, consider starting a restoration so- 
ciety to share resources and promote the 
historical or architectural value of the 
ne. ghborhood. Grants and tax breaks are 
available for areas designated as historic 
places by the state or federal government. 


For more information on how to qualify for 
one of these programs, contact the Califor- 
nia State Historic Preservation Officer at 
(916) 445-8006 or the Western Regional 
Office of the National Trust for Historic 
reservation at (415) 453-0325. 


communities. You can find out whether 
there is an NYS program in your area by 
looking in the telephone directory under 
“Neighborhood Housing Services.” 


Urban Homesteading _|f you live in one of 
the few areas involved in HUD'’s Urban 
Homesteading p-ogram, you may be able to 
buy a house for as little as $1. Foreclosed 
and abandoned houses acquired by HUD 
are transferred to local government agen- 
cies which then sell them to the public at 
token prices. Usually, you are given 18 
months to make specific repairs before you 
receive full titte to the property. You must 
also agree to live in the house for at least 
three years. 


For More Information For information on 
CDBG, NHS, Urban Homesteading, and 


other housing finance programs, contact 
your local housing agency or call the 
nearest HUD office, listed in the telephone 
book under “United States Government.” 


Farmers Home Administration if the 
house is located in a rural area, you may 
qualify for a low interest loan for the pur- 
chase and/or renovation. For more infor- 
mation on the program in California, contact 
the Farmers Home Administration, 459 
Cleveland Street, Woodland, CA 95695. 


State-Sponsored Loans Qualified low- 
and middie-income people may apply at 
certain lenders for purchase-money and 
rehabilitation loans available through the 
California Housing Finance Agency. Gen- 
erally, the house must be located in a 
state-designated revitalization area. Inter- 
est rates are typically 2% below con- 
ventional loan rates. Down payment re- 
quirements may also be lower. 


For more information, contact the Los An- 
geles, Sacramento, or San Francisco office 
of the California Housing Finance Agency 
(listed in the telephone directory under 
“California, State of"). Or you can cail your 
municipal department of housing and 
community development. 


Hiring Professionals 


You may be thinking about saving money by 
serving as your own contractor. While being 
the “owner-builder” can certainly cut costs, 
you should carefully consider whether you 
have the skills, knowledge, and time thai a 
major rehabilitation project demands. If you 
overestimate your ability or underestimate 
the complexity of the project, any resulting 
mistakes or complications could cost you 
more money than you'd have paid a profes- 
sional. Also, most lenders require proof that 
you are qualified to handle the project be- 
fore they will approve your loan. 


If you decide to do your own contracting, 
you'll be responsible for obtaining insur- 
ance, building permits, zoning variances, 
bonds, and any other documents required 
by law. You'll hire the subcontractors, pur- 
chase materials, and supervise the work. 


Generally, the more extensive the job, the 
rnore professional help you'll need. If your 
plans include moving walls or making major 
design changes, it's a good idea to consult 
an architect. If the project requires the 
services of more than one type of subcon- 
tractor, you may want to hire a general 
contractor. 


Careful selection in hiring either an ar- 
chitect or contractor may help ensure that 
the project will run as smoothly as possible. 
These professionals are familiar with local 
code requirements. They can obtain the 


building permits and other documents you 
need and make sure the job meets local 
standards. 


LOOK FOR SPECIALISTS Because 
general remodeling professionals may not 
have the special skills required to renovate 
an older home, it’s best to hire those who 
have done rehab work before. For exam- 
ple, an architect who specializes in renova- 
tion would be familiar with the interior and 
exterior design characteristics, as well as 
older mechanical systems. Contractors 
who specialize in renovation will know of 
suppliers of custom materials and 
craftspeople who are skilled in restoring the 
historical features of older houses. 


Other renovators are an excellent source 
for finding qualified workers. They're usu- 
ally happy to refer you to reliable people and 
steer you away from those who have do: e 
poor work in the past. You can also fir : 
architects and contractors through suc 
traditional sources as the telephone di- 
rectory'’s Yellow Pages and local chapters 
of professional organizations (listed in the 
Yellow Pages under “Associations”). 


Carefully check the qualifications of anyone 
you plan to hire. Get at least three different 
estimates on the cost of the job and investi- 
gate the experience of those vho submit 
bids. 


THE CONTRACT Ali agreements you 
make with a contractor or architect should 
be in writing. The contract should be clearly 
worded and explain exactly each party's 
responsibilities. Make sure you understand 
your obligations before you sign. 


Under California law, contracts of $500 or 
more must contain: 

« The name, address, and license number 
of the contractor. 


¢ The name and registration number of any 
salesperson who solicited or negotiated the 
contract. 

« The approximate dates when the work will 
begin and be substantially complete. 

¢ A description of the work to be done and 
the materials to be used. 

* The total job price with a schedule of pay- 
ments and the amount of each payment. 


Your property will probably serve as secu- 
rity for the loan and other contractual obli- 
gations. This means that the lender, con- 
tractor, and subcontractors may have the 
right to make a claim against the property 
should these obligations not be met. For 
more information on hiring a contractor, 
contracts, and ways to protect yourself from 
unfair claims, see Report #11 in this series, 
Planning Home Improvements. You may 
also want to get Biveprint for Building Qual- 
ity, available from your local office of the 
Contractor's State License Board. 


Information in this repor: is current at the time of 
printing, March 7981, but is subject to change. 


Prepared by Bank of America, Box 37128, San Francisco, California 94137 (BR) 
AD-278 (3/81) 


BANK OF AMERICA NT&SA + MEMBER FDIC 


