fr/h/l/cy? <7/^ 


206776 




Title: Land-Use Change, Soil Process and Trace Gas Fluxes in the Brazilian Amazon Basin 

A /yV — - 

Type of Report: Summary of Research Report ' 

/AS ’ C 


Principle Investigator: Jerry M. Melillo/Paul A. Steudler 
Period Cover by Report: June 1, 1994 - August 31, 1997 


-?/c v7" 

& SC 3 // 


Recipients Institution: Marine Biological Laboratory, Woods Hole, Massachusetts, 02543 


NASA Grant Number: NAGW-3752 


We measured changes in key soil processes and the fluxes of C0 2 , CH 4 and N 2 0 
associated with the conversion of tropical rainforest to pasture in Rondonia, a state in the 
southwest Amazon that has experienced rapid deforestation, primarily for cattle ranching, since 
the late 1970s. These measurements provide a comprehensive quantitative picture of the nature 
of surface soil element stocks, C and nutrient dynamics, and trace gas fluxes between soils and 
the atmosphere during the entire sequence of land-use change from the initial cutting and burning 
of native forest, through planting and establishment of pasture grass and ending with very old 
continuously-pastured land. 

All of our work is done in cooperation with Brazilian scientists at the Centro de Energia 
Nuclear na Agricultura (CENA) through an extant official bi-lateral agreement between the 
Marine Biological Laboratory and the University of Sao Paulo, CENA’s parent institution. 

The highlights of our results from the NASA-sponsored research project in Rondonia, 
Brazil include- 


• The measurement of substantial fluxes of N 2 0 from intact moist tropical forest, adding 
more evidence that tropical forests are a major source of N 2 0 in the global budget of 
this greenhouse gas. We have also quantified a period of higher flux during the first two 
years after forest clearing for pasture, but the magnitude of the flux was less than has been 
measured in other tropical locations. 

• The confirmation that forest soils function as small but consistent consumers of 
atmospheric CH 4 . Pastures, in contrast, are net sources of CH 4 to the atmosphere. In the 
context of total accounting of CH 4 emissions from pasture establishment and operation, the 
soil fluxes account for only about 5%, while biomass burning and cattle emissions account 
for the rest. 


• The measurement of a consistently greater amount of N cycling in the soils of forests 
compared with pastures. The magnitude of N cycling also decreases as pastures age. 
Nitrate production is important in both forest and pasture soils. These findings demonstrate a 
relatively open N cycle in forests and are consistent with declines in N fertility in older 
pastures. 



• The documentation of large losses of C during pasture conversion by biomass burning 
and subsequent decomposition of woody forest biomass. Thirty-nine percent of C in 
forest biomass was lost immediately upon burning. Pools of woody biomass in older 
pastures indicate that the remaining C is lost over a period of less than 10 years. 

• The finding of small increases of surface soil C stocks in soils after forest conversion to 
pasture. This pattern is caused by a rate of input of grass-derived soil organic matter that is 
greater than the rate of loss of soil organic matter that remains from the original forest. 

We took three approaches to our biogeochemical studies: 1) frequent measurements 
during a complete annual cycle along two sequences that consisted of native forest and pastures 
cleared between 1989 and 1911 on a working cattle ranch; 2) less frequent measurements in a 
much more extensive area that included six additional sequences on a variety of soil types along 
a 700 km transect across Rondonia; and 3) intensive measurements of the biogeochemical 
changes that immediately follow forest clearing and pasture planting in a 3 ha plot on Nova Vida 
that we experimentally cut, burned and planted to pasture in a manner consistent with the way 
that large areas of forest are converted to pasture in Rondonia. Below we report the major 
findings from these three approaches. 

A. Approach 1: Intensive Measurements Along Sequences of Forest and Pasture 

This research was conducted at Fazenda Nova Vida, a 22,000 ha ranch in the 
municipality of Ariquemes (lat. 9 S, long. 34 W). Nova Vida is superbly suited for studies that 
examine the consequences of pasture creation because it contains forest reserves and pastures of 
a wide range of ages on similar soils under similar management. Its location along BR-364 and a 
good road network allow access throughout the year. We have a laboratory with line electricity 
and a dormitory on the ranch. 

We identified two sequences of forest and pastures cleared at different times at Nova 
Vida on soils that are typical of Rondonia and the Amazon Basin as a whole. One sequence on 
kandiudults (red-yellow podzolic latossols) contained forest and pastures that were 3, 5, 9, 13, 

20, 41 and 81 years old when we began measurements in 1992. The other sequence on slightly 
less clayey paleudults (red-yellow podzolics) contained a forest and pastures that were 3, 5 and 
20 years old in 1992. All pastures were created from forest by clearing and burning and direct 
seeding of pasture grasses two to three months after slash burning. Pastures were not tilled or 
fertilized. The pastures cleared in 1951 and 1911 represent some of the oldest continuously- 
cleared land in Rondonia. 

Soil Chemical Properties 

Forest conversion to pasture had a large and predictable effect on the chemical properties 
of surface soil (Fig. 1). Soil pH increased by one to two units in three- to five-year-old pastures, 
but remained elevated above the pH of the original forest even in the oldest pastures. 
Exchangeable base cations of K, Ca and Mg and cation exchange capacity (CEC) followed a 
similar pattern. Moraes et al. (1996) describe these changes in detail. Acid-extractable P 
increased slightly in three-year-old pasture, but the change was lower in magnitude than the 
change in cations, and P returned to the level of the original forest in pastures aged five years and 



older (Fig. 1). Our preliminary information from the forest indicates that most soil P resides in 
fractions associated with Fe and A1 phosphates and in organic P. 

Soil Density, Carbon and Nitrogen Stocks 

Pasture creation led to moderate increases in surface soil (0-10 cm) bulk density from 1 .2 
g cm' 3 in the forest to 1 .2 to 1 .4 g cm' 3 in pastures. Soil C and N concentrations in pastures were 
typically higher than in the original forest and soil C and N concentrations generally increased 
with pasture age. This led to higher soil C and N stocks in pasture soils (Fig. 1) 

Soil Carbon Dynamics 

We used the stable isotope l3 C to examine the pattern of loss of C in soil organic matter 
(SOM) derived from the original forest and the gains of C that result from incorporation of 
pasture-derived C in pasture soils. Forest-derived C in the pastures cleared in 1972 of both Nova 
Vida sequences represented 67 to 78% of the total C in SOM present to 30 cm in the original 
forest. The pasture cleared in 191 1 contained 57% of the original forest organic matter. The 
increase of C in SOM derived from pasture grasses has been more rapid than the decline of 
forest-derived C. By modeling the rates of change of these two soil C pools, we estimated that 
approximately one-half to two-thirds of the C pool to 30 cm soil depth is stable over the 80-100 
year time scale over which land-use change is likely to significantly alter total soil C pools. 
Pasture-derived C made up approximately 55% of the 0-30 cm total soil C stock after 20 years. 
Soil C turnover differed considerably in different SOM size fractions. Larger (200-2000p) 
fractions of relatively undecomposed organic material became dominated by pasture-derived C in 
young pastures, while the smallest (<50p) clay-associated fractions remained dominated by 
forest-derived material in older pastures. Changes to soil total C pools and the dynamics of soil 
forest-derived and pasture-derived pools are covered in a series of papers based on the research at 
Nova Vida (Feigl et al. 1995a, Moraes et al. 1996, Neill et al. 1997a, b, Bemoux and Cerri in 
press). 

We have also used 13 C to examine how rapidly the C source for soil respiration shifts 
from forest-derived SOM to pasture-derived SOM. By measuring the l3 C in C0 2 respired from 
Nova Vida soil in laboratory microcosms (which includes only microbial respiration) and in the 
field (which includes microbial and root respired C0 2 ) we quantified the replacement of forest- 
derived C with pasture-derived C as a substrate for microbial respiration. While the bulk SOM 
(0-10 cm) in the pasture cleared in 1989 was 77% derived from forest, microbially respired soil 
C was 69% derived from pasture (Neill et al. 1996). When root respiration was included, 
pasture-derived C made up 70% of the total C0 2 emitted to the atmosphere from surface soil 
(Feigl et al. 1995b). Forest-derived C made up approximately 10% of total microbial respiration 
at 0-10 cm in 20-year-old pasture, but exhaustion of labile forest-derived C was complete after 
81 years as pasture (Neill et al.1996). These studies point to the importance of new inputs of 
labile pasture-derived C for fueling soil microbial processes, including processes linked to trace 
gas production. 

Soil Nitrogen Dynamics 

We examined the effect of forest conversion to pasture on N cycling by measuring 
inorganic N pools and rates of net N mineralization and net nitrification over a seasonal cycle in 
the Nova Vida sequences (Neill et al. 1995). Soil extractable NH 4 + and NOf pools were similar 



in the surface soils (0-10 cm) of forest, but NH 4 + dominated pasture inorganic N pools (Fig. 2). 
Rates of net N mineralization and net nitrification were higher during the wet season in both 
forest and pasture. Net mineralization and nitrification rates were consistently greater in forest 
soils than in pasture soils and rates generally decreased with pasture age (Fig. 3). 

Because rates of net N mineralization are influenced by net N immobilization, net rates 
may not be an adequate measure of overall N cycling between organic matter and inorganic N 
pools. To examine the total amount of N mineralized from soils of forest and pastures of several 
different ages, we measured gross N mineralization rates using 15 N dilution on the same soils for 
which we collected net N mineralization rates. We found gross N mineralization rates were 
generally several times higher than net rates, especially when net rates were very low, but that 
the same pattern of higher N mineralization rates in forest compared with pastures also held for 
gross mineralization rates (Fig. 4). Both net and gross rates of N cycling indicate an overall 
decrease in N cycling rates as pastures age. 

Trace Gas Dynamics-Methane 

Our examination of CH 4 fluxes over an annual cycle showed that conversion of forest to 
pasture caused soils to switch from net consumers of CH 4 in forests to net producers of CH 4 in 
pastures (Steudler et al. 1996). Forest soils consumed CH 4 at all seasons of the year. Mean 
annual CH 4 consumption by forest soils was 470 mg C m' 2 y'\ Pasture soils consumed CH 4 for a 
brief period during the dry season but on average produced about 270 mg C m' 2 y' 1 for the year 
and production was similar across pasture ages. Methane fluxes from forest and pasture were 
closely correlated with soil water-filled pore space and the switch from CH 4 consumption to CH 4 
production occurred at approximately 45% water filled pore space. Higher CH 4 fluxes from 
pasture soils were related to consistently greater water filled pore space above the 45% threshold, 
higher pasture soil pH and potentially greater inputs of labile C from pasture roots in surface 
soils. Compared with biomass burning and CH 4 production by cattle, the other principal sources 
of CH 4 to the atmosphere associated with forest clearing for pasture, fluxes from soils represent 
only approximately 5% of the CH 4 fluxes for the Brazilian Amazon. Our analysis suggests that 
conversion of forest to pasture in the Basin from 1975 through 1988 contributed between 12 and 
14% of the global average rate of change in tropospheric CH 4 content for this time period 
(Steudler et al. 1996). 

Trace Gas Dynamics— Nitrous Oxide 

Fluxes of N 2 0 from soils measured over an annual cycle showed generally similar fluxes 
to the atmosphere from forests and pastures (Melillo et al. submitted). Nitrous oxide fluxes from 
the forest were in the range of 5 to 25 pg N m' 2 hr 1 and were similar to fluxes measured from 
other tropical forests. The fluxes of N 2 0 from Nova Vida pastures, however, differed from the 
pattern of higher N 2 0 fluxes from young pastures found in other studies. Nitrous oxide fluxes 
from both forest and pasture soils were higher during the wet season. In the forest, soil N 2 0 
fluxes were tightly correlated with soil water filled pore space and soil NH 4 + pools. In the 
pastures, these relationships were weak. Fluxes of N 2 0 were not correlated with rates of net N 
mineralization or nitrification in either forest or pasture. 



Trace Gas Dynamics— Carbon Dioxide 

Fluxes of C0 2 from soils to the atmosphere were higher from pastures than from forests. 
In the dry season, C0 2 fluxes averaged 89 mg C m' 2 hr' 1 from forest and 1 1 1 to 158 mg C m' 2 hr' 1 
from pastures (Feigl et al. 1995b). Over an annual cycle, this relative pattern was maintained, 
but wet season fluxes were two to three times higher than dry season fluxes (Steudler et al. 
submitted). Soil moisture was a good predictor of total soil C0 2 flux but soil temperature was 
not. 

B. Approach 2: Extensive Measurements in a Transect Across Ronddnia 

We examined how forest conversion to pasture influenced soil stocks of C, N and P, rates 
of carbon and nitrogen cycling and trace gas emissions in six additional sequences across the 
state of Rondonia to test the generality of our findings from the intensive work at Fazenda Nova 
Vida. These six sequences encompassed both ultisols and oxisols, the two dominant soil orders 
in Rondonia and in the Amazon Basin. Soils spanned a range from sandy ultisols (13-16% clay) 
to clayey oxisols (67-75% clay). Each sequence contained a native forest and one or more 
pastures of different ages that were formed by cutting, burning and planting directly to pasture in 
the same manner used to create pastures at Nova Vida. We made measurements at a total of 10 
pastures ranging in age from 3 to 20 years. 

Soil Chemical Properties 

Soil chemical characteristics following pasture creation generally followed the trends 
observed at Nova Vida (Neill et al. 1997a). Soil pH increased in young pastures, declined in 
older pastures, but remained elevated above level of the original forest in 20-year-old pastures. 
Cation exchange capacity and exchangeable base cations concentrations closely followed pH. 
Like the pattern at Nova Vida, soil acid-extractable P stocks increased in young pastures, but 
then declined, often to below the level in the original forest. 

Soil Density, Carbon and Nitrogen Stocks 

Conversion to pasture raised soil bulk density in six of the 10 pastures examined. Soil 
carbon stocks to 50 cm were greater than the original forest in eight of 10 pastures but 
significantly greater in only three cases (Neill et al. 1997a). Nitrogen stocks followed a similar 
pattern. Changes to soil C and N stocks were not clearly related to soil type or soil texture. 

Soil Carbon Dynamics 

We used 13 C abundance to partition the SOM in pastures into a biodegradable SOM pool 
that is susceptible to loss and an SOM pool that remains stable over time spans of several 
decades to 100 years. Between approximately one-fourth to one-half of soil C derived from the 
original forest vegetation was biodegradable and would potentially be lost to decay. In the 
majority of pastures examined, this C loss was more than balanced by inputs of C derived from 
newly planted pasture grasses (Neill et al. 1997a), a pattern consistent with the finding at Nova 
Vida. 

Soil Nitrogen Dynamics 

Patterns of soil inorganic N pools and cycling rates among forests and pastures across 
Rondonia were remarkably consistent with patterns measured at Nova Vida and appeared to be 



highly general across a range of soil types. Forest soils had higher inorganic N pools, higher 
rates of net N mineralization and higher rates of net nitrification than pasture soils (Neill et al 
1997c). The consistently high proportion of mineralized N that is nitrified in the forests suggests 
that there is widespread potential for leaching and gaseous N losses from intact Amazon forest 
ecosystems. 

Trace Gas Fluxes 

Nitrous oxide emissions from forest soils throughout Rondonia ranged from 1 7 to 34 ug 
N 2 0-N m' 2 hr' 1 and were similar to the fluxes measured at Nova Vida. Emissions from pasture 
soils were comparable to or less than the emissions from forest soils except for one 12-year-old 
pasture in the high clay oxisol at Vilhena, which had a flux that was more than double that from 
the corresponding forest stand. All forest soils consumed atmospheric CH 4 . Consumption rates 
were similar to those measured at Nova Vida, except for the forest stand in Vilhena, which had 
the highest CH 4 uptake rate 0.12 mg CH 4 -C irrhr' 1 ) we have measured in Rondonia. The 
pastures throughout Rondonia showed net CH 4 emission. The highest CH 4 emissions measured 
(up to 0.28 mg CH 4 -C m' 2 hr' 1 ) were from two pastures in Vilhena. 

Approach 3: Intensive Measurements During Forest Cutting, Burning and Planting to Pasture 

To study the dynamics of soil carbon and nitrogen cycling and trace gas fluxes that occur 
during the early stages of pasture creation not represented in our sequences at Nova Vida, we cut, 
burned and planted pasture grasses in a 3 ha plot of forest directly adjacent to the reference forest 
of Sequence I at Nova Vida. The forest was cut with chain saws at the beginning of the dry 
season in June, 1994. The slash was burned in September, grass (Brachiaria brizantha ) was 
planted in January, during the middle of the rainy season, and a dense grass cover was 
established by February. This clearing sequence paralleled the sequence used to create other 
pastures at Nova Vida. Forest biomass and chemical composition of biomass compartments and 
size fractions were measured before and after the bum to determine combustion losses of C and 
nutrients. Carbon and nitrogen cycling and trace gas fluxes were monitored in the experimental 
plot before cutting through burning and grass establishment. Measurements were compared at 
each stage with measurements in the adjacent intact forest. 

Forest Biomass and Combustion Losses 

Total forest aboveground biomass was 299 1 ha' 1 (141 1 C ha' 1 ). This is comparable to 
biomass in the few other forests in Rondonia where it has been measured. Biomass losses during 
burning totaled 39%. Losses were highest in leaves and twigs < 5 cm diameter (92%), lower in 
larger (5-10 cm) branches (40%) and lowest in large (>10 cm) trunks (22%). Biomass samples 
before and after the bum are currently being analyzed to permit calculations of element losses (P. 
M. da Gra 9 a, 1997). 

Soil Chemical Properties 

Soil pH before cutting averaged 4.55 at 0-5 cm and 4.50 at 5-10 cm. Two days after 
burning, pH at 0-5 cm rose to 5.24, while pH at 5-10 cm remained unchanged at 4.48. Six weeks 
following the bum, pH had risen to 6.78 at 0-5 cm and 5.74 at 5-10 cm. Analysis of soil samples 
collected post-bum for exchangeable aluminum and base cation content is in progress. 



Soil Density, Carbon and Nitrogen Stocks 

Cutting and burning did not change soil bulk density. Mean densities at 0-5 cm were 
1 .08 ± 0.04 g cm' 3 before cutting, 1 .05 ± 0.03 g cm' 3 one day pre-bum and 1 .07 ± 0.04 three days 
post-bum. These data suggest that changes to soil density during pasture establishment are likely 
more related to introduction of grass and cattle than any direct physical changes caused by 
vegetation removal and burning. Cutting and burning were similarly not associated with 
immediate changes to soil C stocks. These data combined with information on pasture soil C 
stocks from the sequence at Nova Vida indicate that long-term gradual increases to soil C and N 
stocks are linked more closely to establishment of pasture grasses than to any C inputs caused by 
cutting and burning. 

Soil Carbon Dynamics 

Forest cutting had a large but apparently relatively short-lived effect on soil microbial 
biomass C in the top 10 cm. Before the forest was cut, microbial biomass was approximately 
243 pg C g' 1 dry soil. Three months after cutting, but before the slash was burned, microbial 
biomass C increased to 350 pg C g' 1 dry soil. Burning had no immediate effect, but by three 
months after the bum, microbial biomass C increased again to 575 pgC g' 1 dry soil. Eight 
months after the bum, microbial biomass C declined to less than 300 pgC g' 1 dry soil, 
approximately the level in the reference forest. We are currently analyzing soil samples for 13 C 
that will allow us to quantify inputs of grass-derived C in the months immediately after the bum. 
We think these inputs are important, not only for controlling microbial biomass and soil 
respiration, but perhaps for fueling N 2 0 emissions as well. 

Soil Nitrogen Dynamics 

We expected soil inorganic N pools and cycling rates to be much more dynamic during 
the cut and bum sequence than total soil C or N stocks. As a result, we measured soil extractable 
NH 4 + and N0 3 ' pools, laboratory potential net mineralization rates and potential net nitrification 
rates at closely-spaced intervals of days to weeks during the entire cutting and burning sequence. 
Pools of both NH 4 + and N0 3 ' increased in response to cutting (Fig 2). The increase in N0 3 ‘ pools 
was more rapid and of greater magnitude than the increase in the NH 4 + pool (Fig. 2). The peak 
N0 3 ‘ pool occurred immediately before the bum, while the peak NH 4 + pool occurred several days 
after the bum. 

Burning itself did not appear to change dramatically either N0 3 ' or NH 4 + pools. Rather, 
the elimination of vegetation and plant demand for inorganic N resulted in large increases in soil 
N pools. This effect was greatest for N0 3 ' pools, which peaked at more than five times their 
levels in the adjacent reference forest. NH 4 + pools peaked at two to three times their level in the 
reference forest, but peak NH 4 + pools after the bum were only slightly higher than the typical dry 
season elevated NH 4 + pool (Fig. 2). When compared with soil inorganic N pools in pastures in 
the sequence at Nova Vida, NH 4 + pools during the cut and bum sequence were similar in 
magnitude and timing to the seasonal swings in inorganic N pools that occur in pasture soils 
(Fig. 4). In contrast, the changes in N0 3 ‘ pools during the cut and bum sequence were two- to 
three-fold greater than the normal seasonal cycle in the forest and vastly greater than the NO,' 
pools in pastures, which are typically very low (Fig. 2). 

The period of largest change in inorganic N pools occurred within four months of forest 
cutting. By November, which corresponds to the beginning of the first rainy season following 



clearing, pools had declined by approximately half from their peak, but were still two to three 
times greater than pools in the reference forest or typical early rainy season forest inorganic N 
pools. The duration that pools stay elevated is not known, but it likely plays a very important 
role in mediating total N losses through the first year or two following clearing and pasture 
establishment. 

Rates of net N mineralization and net nitrification through the cutting and burning cycle, 
in contrast to inorganic N pools, remained very similar to rates in the reference forest (Fig. 3). 

We interpret this pattern to indicate that microbial processing of organic matter remained 
relatively constant over the cut and bum sequence but that the products of mineralization and 
nitrification accumulated when plant uptake was eliminated. Large inputs of organic material 
that reached the soil surface after cutting did not stimulate microbial release of N in surface soils, 
likely because this deposition occurred during June through August at the height of the dry 
season. By four months after forest cutting, rates of net N mineralization and net nitrification 
still more closely resembled rates in the reference forest than rates in established pastures at 
Nova Vida. 

We measured the rate of gross N mineralization at several points during the cutting and 
burning sequence to examine changes in the mineralization/immobilization relationship that 
would help in interpreting patterns of net N mineralization. Before cutting, gross N 
mineralization rates in the forest were approximately three times net rates (Neill et al. submitted). 
Between cutting and burning and immediately after burning, gross and net N mineralization rates 
were similar. One month after burning, the gross N mineralization rate was much higher than the 
net N mineralization rate, probably because there was high net N immobilization as a result of 
high post-bum C availability. As with the net N mineralization rates, we did not detect a 
pronounced increase in gross N mineralization rate following cutting or burning. 

Trace Gas Fluxes 

The dynamics immediately after forest cutting and burning are also critical for 
understanding the net trace gas fluxes caused by land-use transformation. A significant portion 
of the total trace gas flux after deforestation could occur in a relatively short period if flux rates 
are greatly elevated. In the new pasture at Nova Vida, N 2 0 emissions increased by more than 
two times following cutting (Melillo et al. submitted). Fluxes continued to be elevated through 
the dry season until slash burning. Burning increased N 2 0 emissions to more than double the 
pre-bum rate and to more than six times the rate in the reference forest. Nitrous oxide emissions 
declined in the months following the bum, but after grass establishment in January, emissions 
increased steadily over the next nine months and reached a level three times the forest stand. 

The effects of cutting and burning for pasture creation on the fluxes of CH 4 were nearly 
as dramatic as observed for N 2 0 but were of shorter duration. Immediately after forest cutting, 
soil CH 4 consumption decreased by 4.5 times. Soil CH 4 consumption continued to be reduced at 
least two fold through the bum and immediate post-bum period. Within one month after grass 
was established in the new pasture, CH 4 consumption returned to rates that were similar to the 
forest. Rates remained at this level for the next eight months. 

Pasture creation did not have a dramatic effect on soil respiration. Forest cutting did not 
substantially alter soil respiration rates, but burning increased the rates by about 25% compared 
with the reference forest. Soil respiration rates declined by about 20 % one month after the bum 



but increased steadily after grass establishment to a level about 25% greater than the reference 
forest at nine months after burning. 

Education and Training 

Three Ph.D. dissertations and one Masters thesis at CENA-USP have also been completed with 
NASA support. 

1 . Feigl, B.J. M.DeC. 1994. Dinamica da materia organica do solo na successao 
floresta/pastagem n Amozonia (Rondonia). Ph.D. Disseration. Cento de Energia Nuclear na 
Agricultura, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Piracicaba, SP Brasil. 

2. Piccolo, M.DeC. 1994. Comportamento de Nitrogenio do Solo em Cronossequenicas 
Floresta-Passagem em Rondonia. Ph.D. Disseration. Cento de Energia Nuclear na 
Agricultura, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Piracicaba, SP Brasil. 

3. Moras, J.F.L. de. 1995. Propriedades do solo e dinamica da nateria organica associadas as 
mudancas do uso da terra em Rondonia (Ro)/Brasil. Ph.D. Disseration. Cento de Energia 
Nuclear na Agricultura, Universidade de Sao Paulo, Piracicaba, SP Brasil. 

4. Gratia, P.M.L. 1997. Contendo de carbono na bimassa florestal da Amazonia e altera 9 oes 
apos a queima. MS Theis Escola Superior de Agricultura Luiz de Queiroz, Universidade de 
Sao Paulo, Piracicaba, SP Brasil. 

Publications 

1. Piccolo, M. C., C. Neill and C. C. Cerri. 1994. Net nitrogen mineralization and net 

nitrification along a tropical forest-to-pasture chronosequence. Plant Soil 162:61-70. 

2. Piccolo, M. C., C. Neill and C. C. Cerri. 1994. Natural abundance of 15 N in soils along 

forest-to-pasture chronosequences in the western Brazilian Amazon Basin. Oecologia 
99:1112-117. 

3. Feigl, B. J., J. M. Melillo and C. C. Cerri. 1995a. Changes in the origin and quality of soil 

organic matter and its size fractions after deforestation for pasture introduction in 
Rondonia (Brazil). Plant and Soil 175:21-29. 

4. Feigl, B.J., P. A. Steudler and C.C. Cerri. 1995b. Effects of pasture introduction on soil C0 2 

emissions during the dry season in the state of Rondonia, Brazil. Biogeochemistry 31:1- 
14. 

5. Moraes, J. F. L., C. C. Cerri, J. M. Melillo, D. Kicklighter, C. Neill, D. L. Skole and P. A. 

Steudler. 1995. Soil carbon stocks of the Brazilian Amazon Basin. Soil Science Society 
of America Journal 59:244-247. 

6. Neill, C., M. C. Piccolo, P. A. Steudler, J. M. Melillo, B. J. Feigl and C. C. Cerri. 1995. 

Nitrogen dynamics in soils of forests and active pastures in the western Brazilian Amazon 
Basin. Soil Biology and Biochemistry 27:1 167-1175. 

7. Steudler, P. A., J. M. Melillo, B. J. Feigl, C. Neill, M. C. Piccolo and C. C. Cerri. 1996. 

Consequence of forest-to-pasture conversion on CH 4 fluxes in the Brazilian Amazon 
Basin. Journal of Geophysical Research 101 : 1 8,547-1 8,554. 



8. Piccolo, M. C., C. Neill, J. M. Melillo, C. C. Cerri and P. A. Steudler. 1996. I5 N natural 

abundance in forest and pasture soils of the Brazilian Amazon Basin. Plant and Soil 
182:249-258. 

9. Neill, C., B. Fry, J. M. Melillo and P. A. Steudler. 1996. Forest- and pasture-derived 

contributions to carbon stocks and microbial respiration of tropical pasture soils. 
Oecologia 107:113-119. 

10. Moraes, J. F. L., B. Volkoff, M. Bemoux and C. Cerri. 1996. Soil properties under Amazon 

forest and changes due to pasture installation in Rondonia (Brazil). Geoderma 70:63-81 . 

11. Fry, B., R. Garritt, K. Tholke, C. Neill, R. H. Michener, F. J. Mersch and W. Brand. 1996. 

Cryoflow: cryofocusing nanomole amounts of C0 2 , N 2 and S0 2 from an elemental 
analyzer for stable isotopic analysis. Rapid Communications in Mass Spectrometry 
10:953-958. 

12. Neill, C., P. A. Steudler, J. M. Melillo, C. C. Cerri, J. F. L. Moraes, M. C. Piccolo and M. 

Brito. 1997a. Carbon and nitrogen stocks following forest clearing for pasture in the 
Southwestern Brazilian Amazon. Ecological Applications 7:1216-1225. 

13. Neill, C., C. C. Cerri, J. M. Melillo, B. J. Feigl, P. A. Steudler, J. F. L. Moraes and M. C. 

Piccolo. 1997b. Soil carbon stocks and dynamics following deforestation for pasture in 
Rondonia. Pages 9-28, in R. Lai, J. M. Kimble, R. F. Follett and B. A. Stewart (eds.), 
Soil Processes and the Carbon Cycle. CRC Press, NY. 

14. Neill, C., M. C. Piccolo, C. C. Cerri, P. A. Steudler, J. M. Melillo and M. Brito. 1997c. Net 

nitrogen mineralization and net nitrification rates in soils following deforestation for 
pasture across the southwestern Brazilian Amazon Basin landscape. Oecologia 1 10:243- 
252. 

15. Bernoux, M., C. Cerri, C. Neill and J. F. L. Moraes. In press. The use of stable isotopes for 

estimating soil organic mater turnover rates. Geoderma. 

16. Moraes, J. F. L, C. Neill, B. Volkoff, C.C. Cerri, J.M. Melillo, V. Costa Lima and P.A. 

Steudler. Submitted. Soil carbon and nitrogen stocks following forest conversion to 
pasture in the western Brazilian Amazon Basin. Revista de Ciencia do Solo. 

17. Neill, C., M. C. Piccolo, J. M. Melillo, P. A. Steudler and C. C. Cerri. Submitted. Nitrogen 

turnover and availability following forest clearing for pasture in the southwestern 
Brazilian Amazon Basin. Soil Biology and Biochemistry. 

18. Steudler, P. A., B. J. Feigl, J. M. Melillo, C. Neill, M. C. Piccolo and C. C. Cerri. 

Submitted. Annual patterns of soil C0 2 emissions from Brazilian forests and pastures. 
Biogeochemistry. 

19. Melillo, J. M., P. A. Steudler, B. J. Feigl, C. Neill, C. C. Cerri and M. C. Piccolo. 

Submitted. Nitrous oxide emissions form a forest and seven pastures of various ages in 
the Brazilian Amazon. Nature. 

20. Neill, C. and E. A. Davidson. Submitted. Soil carbon accumulation or loss following 

deforestation for pasture in the Brazilian Amazon. In: B. A. Stewart, R. Lai and J.M. 
Kimble (eds.), Carbon Pools and Dynamics in Tropical Ecosystems. CRC Press, NY. 



21 . Gra^a, P.M.L. 1997. Contendo de carbono na bimassa florestal da Amazonia e altera 9 oes 

apos a queima. MS Theis Escola Superior de Agricultura Luiz de Queiroz, Universidade 
de Sao Paulo, Piracicaba, SP Brasil. 109pp. 



NET NITROGEN MINERALIZATION RATE 



NET NITRIFICATION RATE 



forest and in a Lwl^cr^ (0-10 cm) in a reference 

SET” and net nation did « change^ d^gt SSiS 





nh 4 pools 



no 3 pools 



pasture at Nova Vida. The new pasture was formedV ^ * rcferenc ? forest 3,1(1 in a newl y created 

adjacent to the reference forest NH/ and Kin - i r ° m cu ^ ln ® 311(1 burning an area of forest directly 
chronosequence. Soil NH/ pools in the new na Jh^ S m eStabl ' shed pastures are from the Nova Vida 
first 6 months after cutting but the NH/ dooI during V\ Cre ® sed com Pared with the reference forest durinj 
established pastures Soil NO n^.VT P " 8 S St3ge Was com P arab 'e to NH/ pools in 

6months alter cutting and NCV Zb ?Z'nTS' T "" refcre "“ forea d “ rt "S the Bra 
established pastures **" bUm,n8 5,111 "»« than 2 times pools in 




4 




. 1 Changes to soil pH, cation stocks, phosphorus stocks, total carbon and total nitrogen stocks in 
surface soil (0-10 cm) along a chronosequence consisting of forest and pastures ranging in age from 3 to 
81 years at Fazenda Nova Vida, Rondonia. Soil pH (1:2.5 in H20) peaked in 5-year-old pasture but then 
remained elevated after 81 years. Cation stocks (sum of K, Ca, Mg and Na) also peaked in 5-year-old 
pasture but after 20 years in pasture returned to the level of the original forest. Stocks primary mineral P 
(HC1 extractable P) were very low and showed only a slight increase in 3-year-old pasture. Preliminary 
measurements of stocks of organic phosphorus and phosphorus associated with amorphous and crystalline 
AI and Fe hydroxides (NaOH extractable P) in the forest indicate that these forms make up the largest 
components of total P, but how they change during pasture aging in not known. Total carbon and 
nitrogen stocks increased with pasture age. Error bars for total C and total N are ± 1 standard deviation. 





