AUTHENTICATED , 
US. GOVERNMENT 
INFORMATION ^ 


IMPACT OF U.S. TAX RULES ON INTERNATIONAL 
COMPETITIVENESS 


HEARING 

BEFORE THE 

COMMITTEE ON ^NAY^ AND MEANS 
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATDM]S 

ONE HUNDRED SIXTH CONGRESS 

FIRST SESSION 

JUNE 30, 1999 

Serial 106-92 

Printed for the use of the Committee on Ways and Means 



U.S. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE 
66-775 CC WASHINGTON 12001 


For sale by the U.S. Government Printing Office 
Superintendent of Documents, Congressional Sales Office, Washington, DC 20402 


COMMITTEE ON WAYS AND MEANS 
BILL ARCHER, Texas, Chairman 


PHILIP M. CRANE, Illinois 
BILL THOMAS, California 
E. CLAY SHAW, J R., Florida 
NANCY L. JOHNSON, Connecticut 
AMO HOUGHTON, New York 
WALLY HERGER, California 
J IM McCRERY, Louisiana 
DAVE CAMP, Michigan 
J IM RAMSTAD, Minnesota 
J IM NUSSLE, Iowa 
SAM J OH N SON, Texas 
J ENNIFER DUNN, Washington 
MAC COLLINS, Georgia 
ROB PORTMAN, Ohio 
PHILIP S. ENGLISH, Pennsylvania 
WES WATKINS, Oklahoma 
J .D. HAYWORTH, Arizona 
J ERRY WELLER, Illinois 
KENNY HULSHOF, Missouri 
SCOTT MclNNIS, Colorado 
RON LEWIS, Kentucky 
MARK FOLEY, Florida 


CHARLES B. RANGEL, New York 
FORTNEY PETE STARK, California 
ROBERT T. MATSUI, California 
WILLIAM J. COYNE, Pennsylvania 
SANDER M. LEVIN, Michigan 
BENJAMIN L. CARDIN, Maryland 
JIM MCDERMOTT, Washington 
GERALD D. KLECZKA, Wisconsin 
J OHN LEWIS, Georgia 
RICHARD E. NEAL, Massachusetts 
MICHAEL R. McNULTY, New York 
WILLIAM J . J EFFERSON, Louisiana 
JOHN S. TANNER, Tennessee 
XAVIER BECERRA, California 
KAREN L. THURMAN, Florida 
LLOYD DOGGETT, Texas 


A.L. Singleton, Chid" of Staff 
Janice Mays, Minority Chid" Counsel 


Pursuant to clause 2(e)(4) of Rule XI of the Rules of the House, public hearing records 
of the Committee on Ways and Means are also published in electronic form. The printed 
hearing record remains the official version. Because electronic submissions are used to 
prepare both printed and electronic versions of the hearing record, the process of converting 
between various electronic formats may introduce unintentional errors or omissions. Such occur- 
rences are inherent in the current publication process and should diminish as the process 
is further refined. 


II 



CONTENTS 


Page 

Advisory of J une 15, 1999, announcing the hearing 2 

WITNESSES 

American Express Company, Aian J . Lipner 20 

Bouma, Hermann B., H.B. Bouma 93 

Caterpiiiar I nc., Saiiy A. Stiies 24 

Chip, Wiiiiam W., European -American Business Councii, and Deioitte & Tou- 
che LLP Ill 

Coaiition of Service Industries, Harvey B. Mogenson 106 

Conway, Kevin, Nationai Association of Manufacturers, and United Tech- 
nologies Corporation 100 

CSX Corporation, PeterJ . Finnerty 27 

DaimierChrysier Corporation, J ohn L. Loffredo 16 

Dean, Warren L., J r.. Subpart F Shipping Coaiition, and Thompson Coburn 

LLP 140 

Deioitte & Touche LLP: 

Phiiip D. Morrison 69 

Wiiiiam W. Chip Ill 

European-American Business Councii, Wiiiiam W. Chip Ill 

Finnerty, PeterJ ., CSX Corporation, and Sea-Land Service, Inc 27 

General Motors Corporation, William H . Laitinen 116 

Green, Richard C., J r., UtiliCorp United 12 

Hamond, David, Section 911 Coalition 124 

H.B. Bouma, Hermann B. Bouma 93 

Houghton, Hon. Amo, a Representative in Congress from the State of New 

York 9 

International Tax Policy Forum, and Columbia University, R. Glenn Hub- 
bard 47 

Laitinen, William H ., General Motors Corporation 116 

Levin, Hon. Sander M., a Representative in Congress from the State of 

Michigan 5 

Lipner, Alan J ., American Express Company 20 

Loffredo, J ohn L., DaimierChrysier Corporation 16 

Merrill, Peter R., PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, and National Foreign Trade 

Council, Inc 78 

Morgan Stanley Dean Witter & Co., Harvey B. Mogenson 106 

Morrison, Philip D., Deioitte & Touche LLP, and National Foreign Trade 

Council, Inc 69 

Murray, Fred F., National Foreign Trade Council, Inc 55 

National Association of Manufacturers, Kevin Conway 100 

National Foreign Trade Council, Inc: 

Fred F. Murray 55 

Philip D. Morrison 69 

Peter R. Merrill 78 

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Peter R. Merrill 78 

Sea-Land Service, Inc., PeterJ . Finnerty 27 

Section 911 Coalition, David Hamod 124 

Stiles, Sally A., Caterpillar I nc 24 

Subpart F Shipping Coalition, Warren L. Dean, J r 140 

Thompson Coburn LLP, Warren L. Dean, J r 140 

United Technologies Corporation, Kevin Conway 100 

UtiliCorp United, Richard C. Green, J r 12 

SUBMISSIONS FOR THE RECORD 

Ad Hoc Coalition of Finance and Credit Companies, LaBrenda Garrett-Nel- 
son, joint statement 152 


ill 



Page 


Alexander, Hon. Bill, American Citizens Abroad, Geneva, Switzerland, state- 
ment and attachment 161 

AlliedSignal, Larry Bossidy, joint statement and attachment 157 

American Bankers Association, statement 159 

American Citizens Abroad, Geneva, Switzerland, Hon. Bill Alexander, state- 
ment and attachment 161 

American Petroleum Institute, statement 165 

Blecher, M. David, Hewitt Associates, LLC, statement 189 

Bossidy, Larry, Business Roundtable, and AlliedSignal, joint statement and 

attachment 157 

Brown, Timothy A., International Organization of Masters, Mates & Pilots, 
Linthicum Heights, MD, Marine Engineers' Beneficial Association, joint 

statement 193 

Business Roundtable, Larry Bossidy, joint statement and attachment 157 

Council of Great City Schools, Rod Paige, joint statement 174 

Crowley Maritime Corporation, Michael G. Roberts, letter and attachments .... 176 

Ernst Si Young LLP, Peter Kloet, Michael F. Patton, and J ohn Wills, letter .... 179 

Decker, J ane, J oint Venture: Silicon Valley Network, San J ose, CA, letter 201 

Financial Executives Institute, Morristown, NJ , statement 183 

Frank Russell Company, Tacoma, WA, Warren Thompson, statement 186 

Garrett-Nelson, LaBrenda: 

Ad Hoc Coalition of Finance and Credit Companies, and Washington 

Counsel, P.C., joint statement 152 

Washington Counsel, P.C., statement 213 

Gould, J effrey L., Youngstein Si Gould, London, England, letter and attach- 
ment 214 

Hewitt Associates, LLC, M . David Blecher, statement 189 

Houston Public Schools, Rod Paige, joint statement 174 

International Organization of Masters, Mates Si Pilots, Linthicum Heights, 

MD, Timothy A. Brown, joint statement 193 

I nterstate Natural Gas Association of America, statement 194 

Investment Company Institute, statement 199 

Joint Venture: Silicon Valley Network, San Jose, CA, Larry Langdon, and 

J ane Decker, letter 201 

Kloet, Peter, Ernst Si Young LLP, letter 179 

Langdon, Larry, J oint Venture: Silicon Valley Network, San J ose, CA, letter .. 201 

LeMaster, Roger J ., Tax Council, letter 212 

Leonard, Robert J ., Washington Counsel, P.C., statement 213 

Marine Engineers' Beneficial Association, Lawrence H. OToole, joint state- 
ment 193 

Moss, Ralph L., Seaboard Corporation, letter 206 

Murrell, Richard, Tropical Shipping, Riviera Beach, FL, letter 212 

NED Holdings Corporation, Whippany, NJ , Richard W. Neu, letter and at- 
tachment 205 

OToole, Lawrence H., Marine Engineers' Beneficial Association, joint state- 
ment 193 

Paige, Rod, Council of Great City Schools, and Houston Public Schools, joint 

statement 174 

Patton, Michael F., Ernst & Young LLP, letter 179 

Roberts, Michael G., Crowley Maritime Corporation, letter and attachments ... 176 

Seaboard Corporation, Ralph L. Moss, letter 206 

Section 904(g) Coalition, statement and attachment 208 

Tax Council, Roger J . LeMaster, letter 212 

Thompson, Warren, Frank Russell Company, Tacoma, WA, statement 186 

Tropical Shipping, Riviera Beach, FL, Richard Murrell, letter 212 

Washington Counsel, P.C.: 

LaBrenda Garret-Nelson, joint statement 152 

LaBrenda Garret-Nelson, and Robert J . Leonard, statement 213 

Wills, J ohn, Ernst & Young LLP, letter 179 

Youngstein & Gould, Jeffrey L. Gould, London, England, letter and attach- 
ment 214 


IV 



IMPACT OF U.S. TAX RULES ON 
INTERNATIONAL COMPETITIVENESS 


WEDNESDAY, J UNE 30, 1999 

House of Representatives, 
Committee on Ways and Means, 

Washington, DC. 

The Committee met, pursuant to notice, at 10:02 p.m., in room 
1100, Longworth House Office Building, Hon. Bill Archer (Chair- 
man of the Committee) presiding. 

[The advisory announcing the hearing follows:] 


( 1 ) 



2 


ADVISORY 

FROM THE COMMITTEE ON WAYSAND MEANS 

FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE CONTACT: (202) 225-1721 

J une 15, 1999 
No. FC-12 


Archer Announces Hearing on 
Impact of U.S. Tax Rules on International 
Competitiveness 

Congressman Bill Archer (R-TX), Chairman of the Committee on Ways and 
Means, today announced that the Committee will hold a hearing on the impact of 
U.S. tax rules on the international competitiveness of U.S. workers and businesses. 
The hearing will take place on Wednesday, J une 30, 1999, in the main Committee 
hearing room, 1100 Longworth FI ouse Office Building, beginning at 10:00 a.m. 

Oral testimony at this hearing will be from both invited and public witnesses. 
Also, any individual or organization not scheduled for an oral appearance may sub- 
mit a written statement for consideration by the Committee or for inclusion in the 
printed record of the hearing. 


BACKGROUND: 


The tax rules that apply to individuals and businesses with international oper- 
ations are among the most complex in the Internal Revenue Code. These inter- 
national tax rules often cause U.S. taxpayers to structure their domestic and inter- 
national activities in particular ways. For instance, the current rules may effectively 
prevent a taxpayer from undertaking a particular activity in a specific location, 
business entity, or manner otherwise consistent with the taxpayer's business inter- 
ests. Similarly, the current rules may create incentives to structure business activi- 
ties in a particular location, entity, or manner. Some of the consequences of these 
U.S. international tax rules are intended; many, however, are either unintended or 
result from competing tax, economic, or social policies in the international tax rules. 

In announcing the hearing. Chairman Archer stated: "I have long been interested 
in reform of our international tax rules. I strongly believe that our tax rules must 
help, rather than hinder, the competitiveness of American workers and businesses. 
People in too many businesses, large and small, have described to me how our tax 
law has affected their decisions regarding place of incorporation, choice of business 
entity, and location of business assets and operations. Flaving the tax system-rather 
than business, economic, or family considerations-drive these decisions is troubling. 

I am truly concerned by what I see happening to our economy. Are the current 
rules arbitrary or unfair? Is the U.S. tax system contributing to the de-Americani- 
zation of U.S. industry? Do our tax laws force U.S. companies to be domiciled in 
foreign countries? Are we making it a foregone conclusion that mergers of U.S. com- 
panies with foreign companies will always leave the resulting new company 
headquartered overseas? I want the Committee to examine (1) the effect that our 
current international tax rules have on U.S. workers and businesses, and (2) the 
policies (tax or otherwise) our international tax rules ought to reflect and imple- 
ment." 


FOCUS OF THE HEARING: 


The hearing will focus on the impact of current U.S. tax rules on international 
competitiveness including that on cross-border transactions, international operations 



3 


of U.S. -based companies, and the treatment of U.S. citizens working in foreign coun- 
tries. The hearing wiii examine some of the probiems caused by the current ruies 
and proposed soiutions to these probiems. 


DETAILS FOR SUBMISSIONS OF REQUESTS TO BE HEARD: 

Requests to be heard at the hearing must be made by teiephone to Traci Aitman 
or Pete Daviia at (202) 225-1721 no iater than the dose of business, Tuesday, J une 
22, 1999. The teiephone request shouid be foiiowed by a formai written request to 
A.L. Singieton, Chief of Staff, Committee on Ways and Means, U.S. House of Rep- 
resentatives, 1102 Longworth House Office Buiiding, Washington, D.C. 20515. The 
staff of the Committee wiii notify by teiephone those schedufed to appear as soon 
as possibie after the fiiing deadiine. Any questions concerning a scheduied appear- 
ance shouid be directed to the Committee staff at (202) 225-1721. 

In view of the limited time available to hear witnesses, the Committee 
may not be able to accommodate all requests to be heard. Those persons and 
organizations not scheduied for an orai appearance are encouraged to submit writ- 
ten statements for the record of the hearing. Aii persons requesting to be heard, 
whether they are scheduied for orai testimony or not, wiii be notified as soon as pos- 
sibie after the fiiing deadiine. 

Witnesses scheduied to present orai testimony are required to summarize briefiy 
their written statements in no more than five minutes. THE FIVE-MINUTE 
RULE WILL BE STRICTLY ENFORCED. The full written statement of each 
witness will be included in the printed record, in accordance with House 
Rules. 

I n order to assure the most productive use of the iimited amount of time avaiiabie 
to question witnesses, aii witnesses scheduied to appear before the Committee are 
required to submit 300 copies, aiong with an IBM compatibie 3.5-inch diskette in 
WordPerfect 5.1 format, of their prepared statement for review by Members prior 
to the hearing. Testimony should arrive at the Committee office, room 1102 
Longworth House Office Building, no later than, Monday, J une 28, 1999. 
Faiiure to do so may resuit in the witness being denied the opportunity to testify 
in person. 


WRITTEN STATEMENTS IN LIEU OF PERSONAL APPEARANCE: 


Any person or organization wishing to submit a written statement for the printed 
record of the hearing shouid submit six (6) singie-spaced copies of their statement, 
aiong with an IBM compatible 3.5-inch diskette in WordPerfect 5.1 format, with 
their name, address, and hearing date noted on a label, by the close of business, 
Wednesday, J uly 7, 1999, to A.L. Singleton, Chief of Staff, Committee on Ways and 
Means, U.S. House of Representatives, 1102 Longworth House Office Building, 
Washington, D.C. 20515. If those filing written statements wish to have their state- 
ments distributed to the press and interested public at the hearing, they may de- 
liver 200 additional copies for this purpose to the Committee office, room 1102 Long- 
worth House Office Building, by close of business the day before the hearing. 


FORMATTING REQUIREMENTS: 


Each statement presented for printing to the Committee by a witness, any written state- 
ment or exhibit submitted for the printed record or any written comments in response to a re- 
quest for written comments must conform to the guidelines iisted below. Any statement or ex- 
hibit not in compliance with these guidelines will not be printed, but will be maintained in the 
Committee files for review and use by the Committee. 

1. All statements and any accompanying exhibits for printing must be submitted on an IBM 
compatible 3.5-inch diskette in WordPerfect 5.1 format, typed in single space and may not ex- 
ceed a total of 10 pages including attachments. Witnesses are advised that the Committee 
wiii reiy on electronic submissions for printing the officiai hearing record. 

2. Copies of whole documents submitted as exhibit material will not be accepted for printing. 
Instead, exhibit material should be referenced and quoted or paraphrased. All exhibit material 
not meeting these specifications will be maintained in the Committee files for review and use 
by the Committee. 



4 


3. A witness appearing at a pubiic hearing, or submitting a statement for the record of a pub- 
iic hearing, or submitting written comments in response to a pubiished request for comments 
by the Committee, must inciude on his statement or submission a iist of aii dients, persons, 
or organizations on whose behaif the witness appears. 

4. A suppiementai sheet must accompany each statement ii sting the name, company, address, 
teiephone and fax numbers where the witness or the designated representative may be reached. 
This suppiementai sheet wiii not be inciuded in the printed record. 

The above restrictions and iimitations appiy oniy to materiai being submitted for printing. 
Statements and exhibits or suppiementary materiai submitted solely for distribution to the 
Members, the press, and the public during the course of a public hearing may be submitted in 
other forms. 


Note: All Committee advisories and news releases are available on the World 
Wide Web at "http://WWW.HOUSE.GOV/WAYS MEANS/". 


The Committee seeks to make Its facilities accessible to persons with disabilities. 
If you are In need of special accommodations, please call 202-225-1721 or 202-226- 
3411 TTD/TTY In advance of the event (four business days notice Is r^uested). 
Ouestlons with regard to special accommodation needs In general (Including avail- 
ability of Committee materials In alternative formats) may be directed to the Com- 
mittee as noted above. 


Chairman Archer. GcxxI morning. Today, the Committee is hoid- 
ing what the Chair beiieves to be one of the most important hear- 
ings that we wiii conduct for the entire year and that is the effect 
of U.S. tax ruies on our country's giobai competitiveness. 

As you aii know, i have been a iong-time advocate of funda- 
mentai tax reform, in short, i do not beiieve we wiii ever fix the 
income tax. That is perhaps an issue for another day. i wiii con- 
tinue to push to compieteiy eiiminate income as the base of tax- 
ation because rather than this negative way to tax, we couid adopt 
a border adjustabie consumption tax and one that gets the iRS 
compieteiy out of our everyday iives. in my view, the notion of tax- 
ing the foreign earnings of American corporations and not having 
a border adjustabie Tax Code are absurd in a competitive giobai 
economy. We force our businesses to enter this arena with one 
hand tied behind their backs reiative to the Tax Codes of the coun- 
tries where corporations are competing against us. 

However, those of you who stiii need convincing that we shouid 
throw out our current income tax, i suggest you iook cioseiy at the 
ruies that appiy to internationai transactions. These ruies are un- 
beiievabiy compiex and often at odds with our economic goais. Pro- 
fessionais spend a iifetime trying to understand the compiexities of 
how we tax foreign source income and, yet, there is massive dis- 
agreement among the experts because of the compiexities. 

Our current tax ruies are grossiy outdated. The basic Subpart F 
ruies, for exampie, were enacted in 1962. These ruies refiect the 
economic dimate of that time, i n 1962, the United States was a net 
exporter of capitai and ran a trade surpius. imports and exports 
were oniy one-haif of the percentage of GDP that they are today. 
U.S. companies focused on the domestic market and internationai 
trade had reiativeiy iittie effect on our economy. My how things 
have changed since 1962. 

To put things in perspective, in 1962, the cost of coiiege was de- 
scribed by President Kennedy has skyrocketing to astronomicai iev- 
eis of $1,600 a year, in 1962, a Japanese motorcycie company 



5 


called Honda decided to start making cars for the first time. In 
1962, Bill Gates was probably more concerned about his second 
grade teacher than computer software. The world has changed and 
our tax laws need to change to. 

I n particular, I have been troubled by some aspects of the recent 
acquisitions of U.S. companies. I do not have anything against for- 
eign investment in the United States. It is part of a healthy, open 
economic system. I am very concerned that our tax law increasingly 
puts American companies at a disadvantage in the world market- 
place. How we tax foreign source income will influence what kind 
of economy we have in the long-run, specifically, whether we have 
a strong and vibrant economy with competitive workers and compa- 
nies, whether we can create more jobs for export which pay on av- 
erage 17 percent more to the workers of this country. 

As a growing consensus develops behind the need to re-examine 
and modify our international tax rules, there have been some sig- 
nificant studies and reports in this area, and we will hear about 
them from several witnesses today. 

The Treasury Department is also undertaking a study of the 
Subpart F rules. I do not know whether I will agree with anything 
in the Treasury's study, but I do know that we need to have an 
open-minded debate. I urge us all. Congress, the administration, 
and the private sector, to get involved in this debate. Our long- 
term economic well-being is at stake. 

If there is anyone here on the minority, I would be happy to rec- 
ognize them for a statement. Mr. Levin, would you like to make a 
statement on behalf of the minority or do you want to wait until 
you make your statement from the witness stand? 

Mr. Levin. I think I will wait for the latter. I think once will be 
enough. 

Chairman Archer. All right. 

Mr. Levin. Thank you. 

Chairman Archer. Well, we are fortunate to start off today with 
two respected Members of the Ways and Means Committee. I hope 
that this augurs that there is bipartisanship on this entire issue. 
We are happy to recognize first Mr. Levin of Michigan? 

STATEMENT OF HON. SANDER M. LEVIN, A REPRESENTATIVE 
IN CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF MICHIGAN 

Mr. Levin. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and my colleagues on the 
Ways and Means Committee and especially hello to the gentleman 
next to me. We have been working together in the international tax 
area for a number of years. And I fully concur with your discussion, 
with your suggestion, Mr. Chairman, that we very much need to 
debate the international tax field. Wherever one comes from, I 
think it is vital that we continue to do that. And Mr. Houghton and 
I are pleased to report to you on our further package of proposals. 

This is the fourth bill that we have put together and the third 
on a bipartisan basis with Senators Hatch and Baucus. 

This bill contains a long list of proposals unified by a common 
theme. The way we tax the income of U.S. companies doing busi- 
ness abroad should reflect the economic realities of doing business 
abroad and should facilitate the efficient allocation of resources. 
Guided by that principle, our bill seeks to further amend the U.S. 



6 


international tax regime in a way that will simplify the reporting 
burden, enhance the competitiveness of U.S. businesses and their 
workers, and promote exports. 

This bill seeks to further update the U.S. international tax re- 
gime by bringing it into further sync with the realities and de- 
mands of the modern business environment. We made substantial 
progress though there are no doubt continuing problems in the 
1997 legislation, and let me just review them very quickly so we 
have that background. 

As you know, one of the changes related to active financing. Our 
Tax Code generally defers taxation of manufacturing income of 
U.S. controlled foreign corporations, CFCs, until that income is re- 
patriated. In enacting the 1997 legislation, we recognized that the 
time has come to apply the same common sense policy to financial 
services companies, banks, brokers, insurance companies, auto fi- 
nancing companies, that we apply to manufacturers. 

Second, reporting by so-called 10/50 companies. A number of 
American companies engage in business abroad through joint ven- 
tures in which they hold more than 10 percent but less than 50 
percent of the equity. Prior to 1997, each so-called 10/50 venture 
was treated separately for purposes of determining foreign tax 
credit limitations. This rule resulted in tremendous reporting bur- 
dens for U.S. companies doing business through multiple 10/50 
ventures with little impact, little impact on their ultimate tax li- 
ability. Thanks to reforms enacted in the 1997 act, a look -through 
rule will kick in beginning in the year 2003 that will allow U.S. 
companies to group income from 10/50 ventures, greatly reducing 
their reporting burden. Another change related to the overlap be- 
tween P-FIC and CFC rules. 

So there has been some progress, but much work remains to be 
done. And let me highlight, if I might, just a few of the key provi- 
sions in FI.R. 2018. And my colleague and friend, Mr. Floughton, 
will give a more general overview. 

One of the changes is to make the deferral of active financing in- 
come permanent. The last change, the change I mentioned, is due 
to expire at the end of the year. 

Mr. Chairman and my colleagues, I hope as we look at expiring 
provisions, we will take a hard look at this provision because, as 
with other expiring provisions of the Tax Code, such as the R&D 
credit, expiration of this provision and uncertainty as to whether 
it will be extended impairs businesses' ability to plan ahead, and 
I don't think I need to elaborate on that view, Mr. Chairman and 
my colleagues. 

The second proposed change, and I referred earlier to the treat- 
ment of 10/50 companies, that would not go into effect until the 
year 2003 and this bill proposes would make it effective at the be- 
ginning of next year. 

Let me just spend a little more time on a provision relating to 
section 202 to make domestic loss recapture rules mirror foreign 
loss recapture rules. Currently, if a U.S. company experiences a 
loss in its foreign operations in a given year, it may deduct that 
loss against U.S. source income. If the foreign operations turn a 
profit in a subs^uent year, the loss is recaptured, i.e., the U.S. 
company is required to characterize a portion of that profit as U.S. 



7 


source income, thus, effectively reducing its ability to use foreign 
tax credit. This ensures that the company will not receive a double 
benefit. But a similar rule does not apply when a U.S. company ex- 
periences a loss in U.S. operations in 1 year and a profit in a sec- 
ond subsequent year. 

Our bill proposes to correct this asymmetry and I elaborate on 
this on my statement to Mr. Chairman, which I know you will 
place in the record. 

Let me finish by referring to two issues that will be discussed by 
further panels where 

Chairman Archer. Mr. Levin, let me make a general observation 
that without objection, all written statements of every witness will 
be inserted in full into the record. 

Mr. Levin. Thank you. And I shall finish, Mr. Chairman, by ref- 
erence to two studies that this bill of Mr. Houghton and others of 
our colleagues and mine proposes. A study, first of all, of treating 
the European Union as a single country for tax purposes. And per- 
haps we will want to go into this further. Mr. Houghton had an 
oversight hearing where this issue was discussed at great length. 
It is not a simple issue. We clearly need to study it to prepare to 
be able to act on it. The second study, our bill would direct Treas- 
ury to study current rules for allocating interest expense between 
domestic and foreign operations and the effect that those rules 
have on different industries. 

We have made some progress but we need to continue this effort. 
We can help bring our Tax Code further up-to-date in a way that 
will make U.S. companies and U.S. goods produced by American 
workers more competitive. These are goals on which I am sure we 
can all agree, and I am committed to continue to work with Mem- 
bers of this Committee and with Mr. Houghton and the Senate to 
advance those goals. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of Hon. Sander M. Levin, a Representative in Congress from the 

State of Michigan 

Thank you Mr. Chairman for giving me the opportunity to testify before this Com- 
mittee. I am pieased to report to you on the package of internationai tax simpiifica- 
tion proposais that Mr. Houghton and I, aiong with a number of our colieagues, 
have put together in this session. 

This is the fourth such biii on which I have had the priviiege to work with Mr. 
Houghton, and our third with Senators Hatch and Baucus. 

The biii, H.R. 2018, contains a iong iist of proposais unified by a common theme: 
The way we tax the income of U.S. companies doing business abroad shouid refiect 
the economic reaiities of doing business abroad and shouid fadiitate the efficient ai- 
iocation of resources. Guided by that principie, our biii seeks to amend the U.S. 
internationai tax regime in a way that wiii simpiify the reporting burden, enhance 
the competitiveness of U.S. businesses and their workers, and promote exports. 

There has not been a major review of our internationai tax regime since 1986. 
The commerdai iandscape has changed significantiy since then. I ncreasingiy, as 
internationai business transactions have become the norm, it has been necessary to 
re-assess when ruies designed to rein in tax avoidance have the effect of deterring 
or severely burdening transactions undertaken for l^itimate and, from the point of 
view of American competitiveness, desirable, economic reasons. 

Today, companies regularly take advantage of the gains in efficiency that come 
from locating strategically in multiple points around the globe. It is not uncommon 
for a U.S. company to rely on a support network based in several different countries. 
This is how companies operate in today's business environment. Not only does stra- 
tegic location around the globe make U.S. companies more competitive, it also can 



8 


increase demand for U.S. exports, since U.S. companies operating overseas are very 
iikely to purchase U.S. goods and services. 

Our I nternationai Tax Simpiification biii seeks to update the U.S. internationai 
tax regime by bringing it in to sync with the reaiities and demands of the modern 
business environment. 

We made substantiai progress towards that end in the Taxpayer Reiief Act of 
1997 and in internationai tax simpiification measures enacted iast year. Some of our 
changes were in the foii owing areas: 

Active Financing: Our Tax Code generaiiy defers taxation of manufacturing 
income of U.S. controlied foreign corporations (CFCs) untii that income is repa- 
triated. This ruie ensures that a German subsidiary of a U.S. company wiii be 
taxed in the same way as other German-based companies with which it com- 
petes. It wiii not be handicapped by current U.S. taxation of its income in addi- 
tion to German taxation of the same income. In enacting the Taxpayer Reiief 
Act of 1997, we recognized that the time has come to appiy the same common- 
sense poiicy to finandai services companies— banks, brokers, insurance compa- 
nies, auto financing companies— that we appiy to manufacturers. 

Reporting by 10/50 Companies: A number of U.S. companies engage in busi- 
ness abroad through joint ventures in which they hold more than 10% but less 
than 50% of the equity. Prior to 1997, each so-called 10/50 venture was treated 
separately for purposes of determining foreign tax credit limitations. This rule 
resulted in tremendous reporting burdens for U.S. companies doing business 
through multiple 10/50 ventures with little impact on their ultimate tax liabil- 
ity. Thanks to reforms enacted in the Taxpayer Relief Act, a "look-through" rule 
will kick in beginning in 2003 that will allow U.S. companies to group income 
from 10/50 ventures, greatly reducing their reporting burden. 

Overlap Between P-FIC and CFC Rules: Prior to 1997, confusing and some- 
times conflicting regimes applied when a controlled foreign corporation (CFC) 
engaged in active business accumulated enough income from passive invest- 
ments to trigger rules regarding passive foreign investment companies (P-FIC). 
The 1997 Act eliminated this problem by providing that under most cir- 
cumstances the P-FIC rules will not apply to CFCs engaged primarily in active 
business. 

I am pleased by the progress we made in the last Congress. But much work re- 
mains to be done. Our goal in this Congress is to build on the accomplishments of 
the last Congress. Let me highlight a few of the key provisions in FI .R. 2018: 

M ake Ddterrai of Active Financing Income Permanent (Sec. 101): The rule that 
makes active financing income exempt from current taxation (like manufac- 
turing income) is due to expire at the end of this year. As with other expiring 
provisions of theTax Code (such as the R&D credit), expiration of this provision 
and uncertainty as to whether it will be extended impairs businesses' ability to 
plan ahead. The lack of predictability is an unnecessary cost that reduces com- 
petitiveness. 

Accelerate Look-Through Treatment for 10/50 Companies (Sec. 204): As I 
mentioned earlier, the "look-through" rule that will simplify reporting for U.S. 
companies engaged in 10/50 joint ventures will not kick in until January 1, 
2003. Our bill proposes acceleration of this much-needed element of simplifica- 
tion toj anuary 1, 2000. 

Make Domestic Loss Recapture Rule M irror Foreign Loss Recapture Rule (Sec. 
202): Currently, if a U.S. company experiences a loss in its foreign operations 
in a given year, it may deduct that loss against U.S. -source income. If the for- 
eign operations turn a profit in a subsequent year, the loss is "recaptured"— 
I.e, the U.S. company is required to characterize a portion of that profit as U .S.- 
source income (thus, effectively reducing its ability to use foreign tax credits). 
This ensures that the company will not receive a double benefit— first, the ben- 
efit of applying a foreign loss against U.S. income, and second, the benefit of 
a foreign tax credit on the subsequent foreign -source income. A similar rule 
does not currently apply when a U.S. company experiences a loss in U.S. oper- 
ations in one year and a profit in a subsequent year. Thus, a loss attributable 
to domestic operations in a given year must be spread over worldwide income. 
This reduces the loss carryover the company would have but for its foreign in- 
come, and it reduces the limit against which the company may apply foreign 
tax credits. 

Our bill proposes to correct this asymmetry by allowing a U.S. company in 
the latter situation to characterize U.S. income in a subsequent year as foreign- 
source income. Instead of suffering a double detriment as a result of a loss at- 
tributable to U.S. operations, the detriment would be offset by an increase in 



9 


the company's foreign tax limitation in a subsequent year when U.S. operations 
are profitable. 

In addition to the foregoi ng examples, and a list of other proposals, our bill calls 
for the study of issues that are becoming increasingly important as the commercial 
environment in which U.S. companies operate evolves. These include: 

Treating the European Union as a SingieCountry for Tax Purposes (Sec. 102): 
The anti-deferral regime in Subpart F is subject to certain exceptions for trans- 
actions that take place within a single country. Our bill would require the De- 
partment of Treasury to study whether the European Union should be treated 
as a single country for such purposes. 

Interest Allocation (Sec. 309): Our bill would direct Treasury to study current 
rules for allocating interest expense between domestic and foreign operations 
and the effect that those rules have on different industries. 

I am very encouraged by the progress we have made to date in the area of inter- 
national tax simplification. By continuing this effort, we can bring our Tax Code up 
to date in a way that will make U.S. companies and U.S. goods produced by Amer- 
ican workers more competitive. Those are goals on which I am sure we can all 
agree, and I am committed to working with the Members of this Committee to ad- 
vance those goals. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 


Chairman Archer. Mr. Houghton, we are pleased to have you as 
a witness before the Committee and welcome. You may proceed. 

STATEMENT OF HON. AMO HOUGHTON, A REPRESENTATIVE 
IN CONGRESS FROM THE STATE OF NEWYORK 

Mr. Houghton. Thank you very much. Thank you, Mr. Chair- 
man. Well, Mr. Chairman, I appreciate the opportunity to be here, 
not only to testify here with people who I am sure have the feelings 
about our tax system, but also with Mr. Levin, who I have got tre- 
mendous respect for. Mr. Levin has spelled out a lot of the things. 

I am not going to go into the details. The testimony will be sub- 
mitted for the record. I just want to hit some of the high spots. 

Really because of your concerns, a number of the provisions in 
our prior bills have been enacted. For example, simplifying the 
translation of foreign taxes using average exchange rates, an exten- 
sion of tiers for the indirect foreign tax credit. Those things were 
all a result of what you did and reaction to some of the pieces of 
legislation that Mr. Levin and I have put forward. 

As Mr. Levin has said, we had a hearing of the Oversight Com- 
mittee last week on the bill and other international tax simplifica- 
tion issues. In our bill, 2018, it contains about 26 provisions to 
change the tax law affecting multinational corporations. And I am 
not going to go into the details at this time. They are all spelled 
out. Be glad to talk about them whenever you would like. 

But I do want to mention a concern I expressed last week and 
that is the disconnect between our tax laws and our trade laws. On 
the one hand, we pass trade laws to encourage exports by U.S. 
companies, then we retain or impose restrictive tax laws relating 
to the multinationals themselves. So many times these tax laws 
place U.S. companies at a disadvantage vis-a-vis their competitors 
overseas. 

Since I have been on this Committee, we have passed a variety 
of trade laws: NAFTA, GATT, African Growth, CBI, NTR for China 
each year. Why? The reason being to break down, obviously, the 



10 


trade barriers to increase opportunities for American workers and 
American companies to trade overseas. 

Now are markets are open. I don't think there is a more open 
economic system in this world. So we need to continue to push for 
markets to be open abroad and it is a constant, constant push. It 
is important we update U.S. international tax laws now, and we 
need to re-work the system so that it helps U.S. businesses become 
more competitive. Today, the tax laws I believe stand in the way, 
and I think that Mr. Levin would agree with that. 

And our bill, we hope, will help. But beyond that, we need to 
take a hard look at Subpart F, as well as the foreign tax credit pro- 
visions of the Code. 

So, Mr. Chairman, I appreciate being here. I applaud your efforts 
of holding this hearing and the goals and objectives you spelled out 
and it is important that we address these now. 

If I could really sort of sum up, I think that there are three or 
four big things. Every so often, you need to open the file and take 
a look at what you nave got and judge is this what we intended 
in the first place? And as far as our tax laws now, I have got to 
believe there is a lot of correction to be made. Second, tax laws 
should be compatible with our trade laws. Third, there should be 
no double taxation, that was the whole concept initially. And the 
fourth thing is to simplify it, to simplify because as these things 
go and corrode and get more complicated, they obliterate the real 
reason for the law in the first place. 

Thank you very much. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of Hon. Amo Houghton, a Representative in Congress from the 

State of New York 

I wish to thank Chairman Archer and Representative Rangel for the opportunity 
to appear before the Committee to discuss the issue of the U.S. international tax 
laws and how that affects the competitiveness of our multinational companies vis- 
a-vis their foreign counterparts. I am appearing here today with my colleague, 
Sander Levin from Michigan, a Member of this Committee. 

Mr. Levin and I have introduced a bill, H.R. 2018, "International Tax Simplifica- 
tion for American Competitiveness Act of 1999." The bill contains twenty-six (26) 
provisions to change tax law affecting multinational companies. Most are simplifica- 
tion proposals. Some are included in separate tax bills before this Committee. This 
is the third international tax simplification bill we have i ntroduced in as many Con- 
gresses. Because of your concerns regarding the negative effect of the international 
tax system on U.S. multinationals, a number of our proposals in the earlier bills 
have been enacted, and I thank you for that. 

I do not intend to dwell on the detailed provisions in our bill. The Oversight Sub- 
committee had a hearing last week. There was a good discussion of the various pro- 
visions in the bill, as well as other international tax issues. We will hear more on 
those from today's witnesses. 

I would to like to take a minute to emphasize a concern which I mentioned the 
other day at the Oversight hearing. This is the disconnect between our tax laws and 
trade laws. On the one hand we pass trade laws to encourage exports by U.S. com- 
panies, then we retain or impose restrictive tax laws relating to multinationals 
which not only are complex, but in many cases place our companies at a disadvan- 
tage vis-a-vis their foreign competitors. As a result, we hear horror stories about 
complexity, mountains of paperwork, legions of talented people gathering tax infor- 
mation, "name" companies moving abroad, etc. 

Since I have been on this Committee, Congress has passed a variety of trade laws, 
including implementation of NAFTA, Uruguay Round of GATT, normal trade rela- 
tions for China on an annual basis, and recently the African Growth and Opportuni- 
ties Act and the Caribbean Basin Initiative. The policy behind each of these bills 
has been to break down trade barriers and expand export opportunities for U.S. 



11 


firms and workers. Our markets are open. It is important that we push for open 
markets abroad. 

It is important that we update U.S. internationai tax iaws now. I beiieve it is time 
to rework the system so that it heips U.S. businesses become more competitive. A 
strong economy in the U.S. is driven by how competitive our companies are around 
the giobe. Today the internationai tax iaws stand in the way. Our biii wiii heip. Be- 
yond that we need to take a hard iook at Subpart F as weli as the foreign tax credit 
provisions of the Code.. Many of the compiexities of the Code spring from these pro- 
visions. The provisions can iead to doubie taxation. They can throw up roadbiocks 
tocapitai formation. 

In the 1960s, the U.S. accounted for more than 50% of cross-border direct invest- 
ment. By the mid-1990s, that had dropped to 25%. In the 1960s, 18 of the world's 
largest corporations, ranked by sales, were headquartered in the U.S. By the mid- 
1990s that number had dropped to 8. Despite the decline of U .S. dominance of world 
markets, the U.S. economy is far more dependent on foreign direct investment than 
ever before. In the 1960s, foreign operations averaged just 7.5% of U.S. corporate 
net income. By contrast, over the 1990-1997 period, foreign earnings represented 
17.7% of all U.S. corporate net income. The same story is true regarding exports. 
They have gone from 3.2% of national income to 7.5% in a comparable period. 

Mr. Chairman, I applaud you for holding this hearing. It is a most important sub- 
ject. The law as now constituted frustrates the legitimate goals and objectives of 
American business and erects artificial and unnecessary barriers to U.S. competi- 
tiveness. Neither the large U .S. multinationals nor the Internal Revenue Service are 
in position to administer and interpret the web of complexity that makes up the for- 
eign tax provisions in our Code. It is important that we address these issues as we 
are doing today. It is also important that we take action. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 


Chairman Archer. The Chair is grateful to both of you because 
I do not think there is enough interest on the part of either mem- 
bers or the general public in this issue, which is going to loom as 
more vital to the welfare of every working American in the next 
century. That is why I said I think this may be one of the most 
important hearings that we will have this year. I wish it could be 
beamed into the homes of every single American so that Americans 
would have an understanding of how they are not really insulated 
from this, but they ultimately are directly connected with it. I, of 
course, agree with everything that both of you have said, and I 
thank you for your work on your l^islation. 

Does any other member wish to inquire? 

[No response.] 

If not, thank you very much. 

Mr. Levin. Thank you. 

Mr. Houghton. Thank you. 

Chairman Archer. We will be pleased to welcome our next 
panel: Mr. Green, Mr. Loffredo, Mr. Lipner, Ms. Stiles, and Mr. 
Finnerty. If you will come to the witness table, please? 

Good morning and welcome. Mr. Green, if you would lead off, the 
Chair would be pleased to hear your testimony. If you will identify 
yourself first for the record and that would be true for each of you. 
You may proceed. Under the rules of the Committee, we would ask 
you to try to stay within the 5 minute on your oral testimony and 
your entire written statement will be inserted in the record. 

Mr. Green, you may proceed. 



12 


STATEMENT OF RICHARD C. GREEN, JR., CHAIRMAN AND 

CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, UTILICORP UNITED, KANSAS 

CITY, MISSOURI 

Mr. Green. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I have submitted a writ- 
ten statement and these oral comments are a summary of that. My 
name is Rick Green. I am chief executive officer of UtiliCorp 
United, an international energy company headquartered in Kansas 
City, Missouri. 

Let me first acknowledge that much of the business community 
is grateful for the efforts of this Committee to improve our Nation's 
ability to compete in the global economy. And I do welcome this op- 
portunity to address what I think is a very serious problem that 
unfairly constrains international growth aspirations of American 
companies. The inequity that I am talking about is that of the in- 
terest allocation rules of the U.S. Tax Code. This problem looms 
large over many American companies doing business abroad. And 
we at UtiliCorp support an economy-wide solution. 

However, I can best describe the inequity that poses the problem 
to our competitiveness by looking at the industry I know best: reg- 
ulated utilities. This industry offers an especially poignant exampfe 
of the problem. The global needs of energy are poised for explosive 
growth. To meet the growing needs, companies, markets, govern- 
ments need to dramatically alter the way we do business. The vig- 
orous demands of this marketplace are pointing to the fault lines 
in our tax rules. This impairs what otherwise would be a strong 
competitive instinct of our American companies. Huge amounts of 
capital are going to be required to take advantage of these emerg- 
ing opportunities. Unfortunately, outdated interest allocation rules 
act as a strong disincentive, literally trapping American corporate 
funds in foreign countries where they cannot be efficiently utilized. 

When U.S. companies doing business overseas prepare their re- 
turns under present law, tax on foreign income is paid in the for- 
eign country and again in the United States, but without full cred- 
it. That is double taxation, pure and simple. Many of the foreign 
competitors have no such burden. Their profits from the United 
States are free to go home, strengthen their operations on their 
own turf and fund other international ventures, possibly even in- 
cluding additional U.S. acquisitions. As an American chief execu- 
tive officer, I would love to have that choice. But as it is, I only 
have one choice, that is to leave such funds overseas or take a dou- 
ble tax hit. 

In some respects, the concerns I have raised would apply to 
many U.S. corporations doing business internationally. But my op- 
erating arena, the utility industry, is especially hurt by existing in- 
terest allocation rules. The current interest apportionment formula 
harms an industry such as mine because a disproportionate 
amount of U.S. interest is allocated to foreign source income there- 
by reducing and sometimes eliminating the foreign tax credit and 
creating a double tax. Some of the contributing factors to this are 
the facts that utilities are capital intensive businesses, holding 
long-lived assets that are among the more highly leveraged U.S. 
companies. The greater the leverage, the greater the interest ex- 
pense, the greater the interest to be allocated, therefore decreasing 
the foreign tax credit. 



13 


Also, because of our inability to transport electricity or gas over 
long distances, particularly over an ocean, U.S. utilities must es- 
tablish a taxable presence where the utility customer resides. This 
means the U.S. utilities generally do not have the ability to gen- 
erate low tax foreign income to dTset the disadvantage caused by 
the interest allocation rules. 

Foreign utility companies generally are not subject to the same 
regulatory restrictions as U.S. utility companies in making foreign 
investments. This is a serious competitive disadvantage. U.S. tax 
law should not further compound this problem. 

The proposed solution we would like you to consider eliminates 
double taxation, changing the allocation rules to take into account 
foreign interest in the interest allocation formula. As I have stated, 
we believe the solution should be available to all U.S. companies 
eligible for foreign tax credit. However, Mr. Chairman, we under- 
stand there may be revenue constraints and if it is not possible to 
enact this with an immediate effective date, we hope you will con- 
sider a phased in approach, phased in across all American industry 
with an initial focus on those most negatively impacted. 

Mr. Chairman, American know-how, muscle, capital have built 
an energy system that is the envy of the world. In fact, it is clear 
to foreign corporations that they cannot be successful in the emerg- 
ing global energy market unless they are a player in our U.S. mar- 
kets. U.S. tax policy should not unduly disadvantage U.S. compa- 
nies in their efforts to expand internationally. We, therefore, re- 
spectfully r^uest relief from double taxation we presently face 
under the existing interest allocation rules. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to appear here. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of Richard C. Green, J r., Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, 

UtiiiCorp United 

Mr. Chairman . . . Members of the Committee, my name is Rick Green and i am 
the Chief Executive Officer of UtiiiCorp United, an internationai energy company 
based in Kansas City, Missouri. Much of the business community is ai ready gratefui 
for the efforts of this Committee to resoive some of the more criticai issues facing 
our country in deaiing with increasingiy sophisticated and vigorous internationai 
competition. 

Therefore, i weicome this opportunity to address a very serious probiem that un- 
fairiy constrains the internationai growth aspirations of American companies— the 
inequity of interest aiiocation ruies in the U.S. Tax Code that iimit the abiiity of 
American businesses to compete. 

Let me emphasize that this probiem iooms iarge over many American companies 
doing business abroad, i can best describe the nature and extent of this threat to 
our competitiveness by reference to the industry that i know best— reguiated energy 
suppiiers. And as wiii become evident, this industry offers an especiaiiy poignant 
exampie of the probiem. 

Aithough my comments have a utiiity industry focus, at UtiiiCorp we've identified 
a possibie remedy to this inequity for your consideration which we think wouid 
appiy to aii U.S. businesses, i'ii discuss that more iater, but i must emphasize that 
the probiem is particuiariy onerous for the U.S. reguiated utiiity industry. 

The current tax iaw does not give companies the abiiity to efficientiy bring cash 
generated from foreign investments back to the U.S. —therefore, when UtiiiCorp 
makes a foreign investment, it is evaiuated as a "cash invested offshore" strategy. 
This obviousiy does not provide the best answer to the U.S. economy, or to our 
sharehoiders. 

i thought it aiso might be heipfui if i couid provide some context by offering a 
cioser iook at how one U.S. utiiity company views the emerging reaiity of the giobai 
energy marketpiace. For it is the rigorous demands of this marketpiace that are 



14 


pointing to the fauit iines in our tax ruies which impair the otherwise strong com- 
petitive instincts of American companies. 

UtiiiCorp has been pursuing investments overseas since 1987 first in Canada, and 
iater in Great Britain, New Zeaiand and Austraiia. To date we have invested $1.4 
biiiion in internationai projects and pian to seek additionai opportunities. We're cur- 
rentiy taking steps to participate on the European Continent as the markets in 
those countries open to competition. 

Driving aii this is the creation of a new giobai energy industry that is creating 
immense giobai opportunities for American companies wiiiing to change the way 
they think and do business. 

It's very dear to us at UtiiiCorp that if we and the U.S. economy are going to 
continue to be successfui competitors, aii of our peopie, poiicies, systems, processes 
and tools will have to adapt to reflect the best-of-class global standards that are 
shaping this new industry. Global markets are developing, customers are becoming 
available, and the competitive instincts of American business are creating a sense 
of urgency to capture those customers. 

In fact, in an industry not typified in the past by venturing much beyond the mo- 
nopoly-protected confines of highly regulated U.S. turf, we were one of the first— 
if not the first— to begin more than a decade ago to prepare for this new reality by 
exploring overseas markets as pathways to growth and greater opportunities for our 
shareholders and employees. 

Achievement of these goals means UtiliCorp has to reinvent itself nearly every 
day, changing those things under our control to meet the demands of a constantly 
churning global marketplace, or coming here to Washington as I am today, to point 
to changes needed on matters beyond the control of the private sector. 

The global need for energy is poised for explosive growth. Throughout the world, 
one third of humanity does not even have access to energy as we know it. As many 
as two billion people still meet their daily energy requirements by burning wood or 
cow dung. Some 80% of energy used around the world is not renewable. 

So, the challenge that needs to be recognized by companies, governments and 
markets is that in order to meet these growing energy needs they must dramatically 
alter the way they do business. I n the U.S., we need to adopt a philosophy of growth 
based on rational tax policies that enhance rather than impede the deployment of 
capital in order to create competition and develop emerging markets. 

We must also continue to develop energy supply and efficient delivery system 
while pushing the boundaries to make renewable energy sources more economical 
and commercially viable as American companies move forward. 

There are, of course, many places around the globe that don't have anything near 
the kind of energy infrastructure that would support a thriving competitive market, 
and American companies can capitalize on that. On the other end of the spectrum, 
there are a number of "gold plated" infrastructures out there, constructed when 
cost-plus regulation was a reality, that need to be simplified to take advantage of 
today's market. 

Huge amounts of capital will be required to take advantage of these emerging op- 
portunities. Unfortunately, outdated U.S. tax laws act as a strong disincentive, lit- 
erally trapping American corporate funds in foreign countries where they cannot be 
efficiently utilized. 

When U.S. companies doing business overseas prepare their returns under 
present law, tax on foreign income is paid in the foreign country and again in the 
U.S. but without full credit. That's double taxation, pure and simple. 

Many of our foreign competitors have no such burden. Their profits from U.S. in- 
vestments are free to go home to strengthen operations on their own turf, or to fund 
other international ventures, possibly even including additional U.S. acquisitions. 
As an American CEO, I'd love to have that choice. As it is, we have but one choice— 
to leave such funds overseas or take the double tax hit. 

UtiliCorp has closely examined a number of investment opportunities in Portugal, 
the United Kingdom, South America, Canada and other parts of the world. In cases 
where we were competing against foreign buyers with tax laws more favorable than 
our own, it has been i mpossi bl e to compete. 

In some respects, the concerns I've raised would apply to many U.S. corporations 
doing business internationally, but my operating arena the utility industry is espe- 
cially hurt by existing interest allocation rules. The current interest apportionment 
formula harms an industry such as mine because a disproportionate amount of U.S. 
interest is allocated to foreign source income, thereby reducing or eliminating the 
foreign tax credit and creating the double tax. 

Contributing factors include: 

• U.S. utility assets are older and more fully depreciated than our foreign assets. 
Since interest is allocated based on the ratio of foreign assets to total assets, and 



15 


foreign assets would be newer and less depreciated, an increased amount of interest 
is allocated to foreign source income which reduces the foreign tax credit and cre- 
ates the double tax situation. 

• U.S. utility assets are amortized using accelerated depreciation rules, while for- 
eign assets are amortized using slower straight-line depreciation rules which again 
creates a disproportionately higher foreign asset base. This increases the amount of 
interest allocated to foreign income and further compounds the problem. 

• Utilities are capital-intensive businesses holding long-lived assets and they tend 
to be more highly leveraged than companies in other industries. The greater the le- 
verage, the greater the interest expense, thus creating a larger pool of interest to 
be allocated. This factor, coupled with the preceding points, causes an increased 
amount of interest to be allocated to foreign source income, thereby decreasing the 
foreign tax credit. 

• Foreign utility companies generally are not subject to the same regulatory re- 
strictions as U.S. utility companies in making foreign investments, thus creating a 
serious competitive disadvantage. U.S. tax law should not further compound this 
problem. 

• Because the era of opportunity for U.S. investment in foreign utilities is rel- 
atively new, a federal tax stumbling block to exploitation of investment opportuni- 
ties by U.S. utilities today will have long-lasting effects on our future competitive- 
ness in foreign markets. 

• Because of the inability to transport electricity or gas over long distances, par- 
ticularly over the ocean, U.S. utilities must establish a taxable presence where the 
utility customers reside. This means that U.S. utilities generally do not have the 
ability to generate a low-tax foreign income to offset the disadvantage caused by the 
interest allocation rules. By contrast manufacturing, transportation, and commu- 
nications industries generally can make cross-border sales and thereby generate low 
tax foreign source income. 

• U.S. utility companies generally are not able to generate low-tax foreign source 
income through licensing of intangibles offshore, such as intellectual property. For 
example, utilities generally own little or no intellectual property, trademarks, trade 
names, and so on. 

The proposed solution we'd like you to consider eliminates double taxation by 
changing the allocation rules to take into account foreign interest in the interest al- 
locations formula. As I have stated, we believe the solution should be available to 
all U.S. companies eligible for the foreign tax credit. Flowever, Mr. Chairman we 
understand there may be revenue constraints and if it is not possible to enact this 
with an immediate effective date, we hope you will consider a phased-in approach, 
a phase-in across all American industries with an initial focus on those most nega- 
tively impacted. 

To sum up, Mr. Chairman, for our industry the market's expectations are a lot 
tougher today. In times past, in that earlier model in which we operated, we would 
just deliver safe, reliable, energy in our local monopoly territories— that was it. We 
could go home. J oh done. Not so any more. That's just entry-level performance, and 
a far cry from global best-of-class. 

To achieve that distinction we must consistently, each and every day, strive for 
the opportunity to reach and serve the global customer and make that customer 
more comfortable at home and more efficient in the workplace. That means we have 
to go beyond just delivering the energy. We have to understand our customers far 
deeper and better than we ever have before and make significant investments over- 
seas and in the improved products and services the global customer base needs, ex- 
pects and deserves. 

If American companies don't do it, our foreign counterparts will. That's what com- 
petition is all about. The companies— and countries— that make this fundamental 
shift will thrive and grow at the leading edge of these global changes. The ones that 
do not will be swept aside to tumble in the wake of the leaders. 

The people who run utilities and other companies overseas are savvy inter- 
national business people. They realize that to be effective players on the global en- 
ergy stage they've got to have a solid presence in the U.S. marketplace, the most 
advanced and lucrative in the world. 

And one of the reasons our market is so attractive is that perhaps its most valu- 
able asset is the skills and knowledge embedded in the experience of the Americans 
we employ. We don't export jobs, Mr. Chairman— but we do export that knowledge. 
It's a tremendously valuable commodity. 

Mr. Chairman, American know-how, capital and muscle have built a truly "First 
Tier" energy system that's the envy of the world. That's why foreign investors al- 
ready are moving aggressively to buy U.S. utilities, such as the acquisition of 



16 


PacifiCorp by Scottish Power and the U.K.'s National Grid acquisition of New Eng- 
land Electric System. 

Earlier this month when approving the Scottish Power and National Grid acquisi- 
tions, FERC Chairman] ames Floecker said the deals, and I quote, "illustratefs) how 
attractive U.S. utility assets are to international markets." 

But I hope you understand that I am not advocating protectionism. I am not ask- 
ing for a bailout or special breaks or loop-holes. All I am seeking are straightforward 
tax rules that recognize this new global marketplace and help to provide an equi- 
table solution for American companies and the U.S. economy. 

There should be no question that U.S. enterprise knows how to compete, but it 
is absolutely vital that our government act to let us play to our stren^hs. If you 
don't, then the U.S. utility industry, which presently occupies the First Tier among 
the world's utilities, could quickly be relegated to a position on the second or third 
tier behind our foreign competitors. 

U.S. tax policy should not unduly disadvantage U.S. companies in their efforts to 
expand internationally. We respectfully request relief from the double taxation we 
presently face under the existing interest allocation rules, which create an impedi- 
ment to the ability of American enterprise to compete. 

Acting now to sweep these tax impediments aside before a crisis develops is vastly 
preferable to coming back later to shore things up after the damage to the U.S. 
economy and U.S. companies is done. 

Thank you for this opportunity to appear before you, Mr. Chairman. Now, I'd be 
pleased to address whatever questions you or the Committee may have. 


Chairman Archer. Mr. Green, thank you. 

Our next witness is Mr. John Loffredo. Mr. Loffredo, we are 
happy to have you with us. if you wiii identify yourseif for the 
record, you may proceed. 

STATEMENT OF J OHN L. LOFFREDO, VICE PRESIDENT AND 
CHIEF TAX COUNSEL, DAIMLERCHRYSLER CORP. 

Mr. Loffredo. Thank you. My name is J ohn Loffredo, and i am 
vice president and chief tax counsei for DaimierChrysier Corp., the 
U.S. arm of DaimierChrysier A.G. The merger of Chrysier Corp. 
and Mercedes Benz was a marriage of two giobai manufacturing 
companies, one with its core operations in North America and the 
other headquartered in Europe with operations around the worid. 
i thought i wouid share with you today some of the tax consider- 
ations, just some of them, that went into determining whether the 
new company shouid be a U.S. company or a foreign company. 

Both companies, Chrysier and Daimier Benz, knew that after the 
merger, these companies wouid continue to pay their fair share of 
taxes to the countries in which they operated. Therefore, the merg- 
er wouid not reduce or eiiminate the company's taxes in the Unit^ 
States or Germany on operations in those countries. However, the 
new company was concerned that it oniy pay tax to the country 
where the income was earned and not a second time on dividends 
repatriated from its foreign operations. And, second, it wouid be 
subject to immediate taxation on normai, active business income 
earned outside the country of incorporation. 

There was a dear, distinct choice to be made between the U.S. 
tax iaws and those of most acceptabie foreign countries. Manage- 
ment chose a company organized under the iaws of Germany. The 
German tax system is based on the territoriai theory. By contrast, 
the U.S. tax system foiiows a phiiosophy of taxing the woridwide 



17 


income of a U.S. company while allowing tax credits for taxes paid 
to foreign governments. 

At the time of the merger, the German Territorial Tax System 
allowed qualified dividends received from foreign subsidiaries to be 
tax-free in Germany. Recent tax law changes in Germany now tax 
15 percent of the dividends received from these companies. When 
DaimlerChrysler Corporation earns income in the United States 
and it elects to dividend some of its aftertax earnings from the 
United States to Germany, less a 5 percent withholding tax, these 
dividends are now taxed in Germany at 3.5 percent. Therefore, we 
have a degree of certainty as to the amount of tax that will be paid 
on the U.S. operations of DaimlerChrysler. 

However, under the U.S. worldwide tax system, a U.S. parent 
company receiving dividends from its foreign affiliates does not 
have this certainty. The U.S. company must include the dividends 
and correspondent foreign taxes paid in its U.S. taxable income. 
Under certain restrictions put into the U.S. tax law over the past 
several decades, the U.S. taxpayer may never know beforehand 
whether these dividends will or will not be taxed by the United 
States. The result could be taxation of at least a portion of the 
earnings twice by two different countries. 

Why does a U.S. company have a problem utilizing all its foreign 
tax credits so that foreign source income is only taxed once? The 
main reason for this problem is that the U.S. company has to ap- 
portion many of its domestic business expenses, especially interest, 
against its foreign source income, thus, reducing the amount of for- 
eign income that may be taken into account in meeting the limita- 
tion. This would create unused foreign tax credits. 

In DaimlerChrysler Corporation's case, if it were the parent of 
the new company, more than 50 percent of its interest expense in- 
curred in the United States to finance a sale or lease of a vehicle 
in the United States would have been apportioned to foreign source 
income. This would have certainly resulted in double taxation of 
significant amounts of repatriated foreign earnings. J ust for an ex- 
ample, if we sold a Dodge pick-up in Texas and incurred $1,000 of 
interest expense in our finance company, $500 of that interest 
would have been allocated to foreign source income. 

There are other U.S. tax rules that also came into our decision. 
The treatment of foreign finance subsidiaries, which was corrected 
on a year to year basis, would not be a problem under German tax 
laws. Investment income earned by foreign subsidiaries would not 
be taxed by the German company. And foreign-based company 
sales where we manufacture in one company, sell it to a distribu- 
tion company in a second country and then sell on to a third com- 
pany, that had the potential of being taxed in the United States. 

Finally, by becoming a subsidiary of a German company, 
DaimlerChrysler Corporation has minimized the possibility of pay- 
ing additional tax— not taxes— on our foreign operation. This 
should help the U.S. operation of the company to continue to com- 
pete on a global scale. However, there are many U.S. companies 
which have foreign operations and they are put at a competitive 
disadvantage in the global economy because of the U.S. tax rules 
on their foreign operation. 

Thank you. 



18 


[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of J ohn L. Loffredo, Vice President and Chief Tax Counsel, 
DaimlerChrysler Corporation 

My name is J ohn Loffredo, and I am Vice President and Chief Tax Counsei for 
DaimierChrysier Corporation, the U.S. arm of DaimierChrysier. The merger of 
Chrysier Corporation and Daimier Benz A.G. was a marriage of two giobai manufac- 
turing companies, one with its core operations in North America and the other 
headquartered in Europe, with operations around the worid. However, the U.S. tax 
system puts giobai companies at a decisive disadvantage. This issue became a major 
concern and when the time came to choose whether the new company shouid be a 
U.S. company or a foreign company. Management chose a company organized under 
the iaws of Germany. 

Generaiiy, the German tax system is based on a 'Territoriai" theory. By contrast, 
the U.S. tax system foiiows the phiiosophy of taxing the woridwide income of a U.S. 
company whiie aii owing tax credits for taxes paid to foreign governments. In theory, 
it is possibie for both systems to resuit in the same tax being imposed on a company 
whether they are U.S. or German. However, in practice this does NOT happen. 

Before I go further, I want to make it dear that the former Daimier Benz has 
been a good corporate citizen in the U.S. and has paid aii taxes beiieved iegaiiy due 
on its U.S. operations. The same is true for the former Chrysier Corporation. In ad- 
dition, Daimier and Chrysier wiii continue to be subject to the U.S. tax iaws on their 
U.S. operations and wiii continue to pay their fair share of U.S. taxes. However, 
what we did not want to happen as part of this merger was to increase the com- 
pany's tax burden by subjecting to U.S. tax Daimier Benz's non-U. S. operations that 
were NEVER subject to U.S. tax iaws in the past. 

As mentioned, the main reason that Germany's tax system on giobai corporations 
is preferabie to the U.S. is the 'Territoriai" nature of their tax system. What does 
this mean from a practicai standpoint? 

1. Worldwide vs. Territorial Tax System 

As of the date of our merger, the German Territoriai Tax System exempted quaii- 
fied dividends received from foreign subsidiaries from taxation . (Recent German 
iaw changes now tax 15% of such dividends). When DaimierChrysier Corporation 
earns income in the U .S. it may eiect to dividend some of its after-tax earnings from 
the U.S. to Germany, (iess a 5% withhoiding tax). Before 1999 these dividends were 
not subject to German income tax but now 15% of the dividend is taxed (resuiting 
in a 3.5% German tax on the gross dividend before U.S. tax). 

However, under the U.S.'s woridwide tax system a U.S. parent company receiving 
dividends from its foreign affiiiates must inciude the dividends and corresponding 
foreign taxes paid in its U.S. taxabie income. Then it must determine the U.S. tax 
on those dividends. The U.S. company may be abie to offset the U.S. tax on that 
income if it can meet certain iimitations and utiiizetheforeign tax credits generated 
by these foreign subsidiaries. If the foreign tax rate is the same or higher than the 
U.S. tax rate, the foreign tax credits shouid, in theory, offset the U.S. tax on those 
dividends. If this occurred, the resuit wouid be the same in the U.S. as it is under 
the German Territoriai System. That is, no further U.S. corporate tax wouid be im- 
posed and the earnings wiii have been taxed by oniy one country. However, under 
restrictions put in the U.S. tax iaws over the past severai decades, this theoreticai 
resuit istypicaiiy NOT achieved and, in many cases, the U.S. taxpayer can NEVER 
fuiiy utiiize aii of the foreign taxes paid by its subsidiaries to offset the U.S. tax 
on foreign earnings. The resuit is taxation of at ieast a portion of the earnings twice, 
by two countries. 

Under these circumstances, the German Territoriai Tax System provides a greater 
degree of certainty for the new DaimierChrysier company that corporate income 
earned outside of the country of incorporation for the parent wiii oniy be taxed once. 
(Aithough as of J anuary 1, 1999 dividends remitted to Germany wiii be subject to 
the new tax equivaient of 3.5% of the gross dividend before U .S. tax). 

Why does a U.S. company have a probiem utiiizing aii its foreign tax credits so 
that foreign source income is oniy taxed once? The main reason for this probiem is 
that a U.S. company has to apportion many of its domestic business expenses (espe- 
daiiy interest expense) against its foreign source income, thus reducing the amount 
of foreign income that may be taken into account in meeting the iimitation. This 
wouid create unused foreign tax credits. 



19 


2. Apportionment of Business Expenses 

The U.S. tax system requires certain domestic company's business expenses to be 
apportioned to foreign source income for purposes of determining the amount of for- 
eign tax credits that may be daimed. This apportionment of expenses has the effect 
of reducing the amount of a taxpayer's foreign source income. The resuit is a tax- 
payer does not have sufficient foreign source income to utiiize aii of its foreign tax 
credits. In effect, this apportionment of expenses to foreign source income resuits 
in an amount of foreign income equai to the apportioned expenses being taxed in 
the U.S. with NO credit offset. This amount of income is thus subjected to tax twice, 
once by the foreign country and again by the U.S. 

The expense apportioned to foreign source income that creates the most difficuity 
to a company iike DaimierChrysier, and to many other U.S. companies, is interest 
expense, which must be apportioned on the basis of the ideation of an affiiiated 
group's assets. Since interest is apportioned on an asset basis, it is apportioned to 
foreign source income categories whether or not the foreign affiiiates have current 
income subject to U.S. taxation (eg., dividends that are paid from a foreign sub- 
sidiary). 

DaimierChrysier has a iarge affiiiated finance company in the U.S. whose primary 
business purpose is to provide financing to Chrysier deaiers and customers who buy 
Chrysier products in the U.S. However, under the U.S. tax iaws, DaimierChrysier 
must apportion its U.S. affiiiated group's interest expense between its U.S. income 
and its woridwide income. Had the former Chrysier Corporation become the parent 
company of the merged group, substantiaiiy over 50% of the vaiue of the assets of 
the combined companies wouid have been iocated outside of the United States. This 
wouid have meant that more than 50% of the U.S. affiiiated group's interest wouid 
have been apportioned to foreign source income. This wouid have decreased the 
amount of foreign source income that was eiigibie for offset by the foreign tax credit. 
In effect, U.S. tax would have to be paid on the amount of foreign source income 
equal to the expenses allocated to that income, and that would have been quite a 
large number. 

For example, let's examine what would happen where the German company is a 
subsidiary of the U.S. Company. Assume DaimierChrysier Corporation sold one ve- 
hicle in the U.S. and made $1,000 of net taxable income on the sale. 
DaimlerChrysler's finance subsidiary financed the sale of the vehicle and that com- 
pany incurred $100 of interest expense. Also, in that year, the former Daimler Benz 
AG earned $100, paid $50 in tax to the German tax authorities, and remitted a $50 
dividend to the DaimierChrysier parent company in the U.S. 

Let's assume that 50% of DaimierChrysier Corporation's assets were foreign. 
Therefore, 50% of the interest expense or $50 is allocated to foreign source income. 
Of DaimierChrysier Corporation's total income subject to U.S. tax of $1,100 only 
$100 is foreign source income ($50 dividend plus $50 gross-up for German taxes). 
Under the method used to calculate foreign tax credits in the U.S., the $100 in for- 
eign source income is reduced by the $50 U.S. interest expense apportioned to for- 
eign source income. This results in net foreign source income of $50. The U.S. tax 
on that amount is $17.50 which is the maximum amount of credit that may be 
claimed on the $100 of German income. Therefore on the $100 earnings in Germany, 
67.5% would be paid in taxes (50 in Germany: 17.5 in the U.S.). That is, a portion 
of the German income will have been taxed twice. 

With DaimierChrysier A.G. as the parent company, if its U.S. subsidiary earned 
$100 of income from U.S. sources, that income would have been subject to a tax at 
the 35% U.S. rate. A subsequent dividend to Germany would be subject to an addi- 
tional 5% U.S. withholding tax and then the new German tax (equivalent to 3.5% 
of the $100 earned from U.S. sources) for a total effective tax of around 44%, rather 
than 67.5%. 

In addition to the apportionment of expenses problem, there were three other 
areas of concern to DaimierChrysier under the laws in the U.S. for taxation of for- 
eign subsidiaries of U.S. companies: 

(A) foreign finance subsidiaries: 

(B) incidental investment income earned by foreign operating subsidiaries: and 

(C) foreign base company sales income. 

A. Foreign Finance Subsidiaries— Pr\or to 1997, foreign subsidiaries of U.S. com- 
panies who were carrying on an active finance business (borrowing and lending) in 
a foreign location had to be concerned that these operations were subject to U.S. 
tax on their earnings even though not distributed to the U.S. parent. The problem 
has been alleviated by recent l^islation that has given taxpayers temporary relief 
to exclude such active business income from U.S. taxation. The German tax system 
would NOT tax such an active business. DaimierChrysier Corporation, which con- 



20 


tinues to own active finance companies in Canada and Mexico, strongiy supports 
this ruie which aiiows active foreign finance company income to be exempt from 
U.S. taxation untii remitted totheU.S. and urges that it be made permanent. 

B. Incidental Investment Income Earned by Foreign Opiating Subsidiaries— Tbe 
U.S. wiii tax in the year earned passive foreign income (interest) if the tax rate in 
the foreign country is iess than 90% of the U.S. tax rate or iess than 31.5%. The 
Germans, on the other hand, wiii not tax incidentai income (interest on working 
capitai) earned at an active operating company. However, both the German's and 
the U.S. have simiiar ruies when it comes to taxing foreign sourced passive income 
where such income is in a tax haven country. In Germany, the income is taxed im- 
mediateiy if it is not subject to a 30% tax rate in the country where it is earned 
and, as mentioned before, the U.S. ruie is that such income must be taxed at a 
31.5% tax rate to avoid immediate U.S. taxation. 

C. Foreign Base Company Sales /ncome— DaimierChrysier is in the business of 
seiiing vehicies woridwide. Let us assume DaimierChrysier A.G., a German com- 
pany, estabiishes a r^ionai distribution center in the United Kingdom as a staging 
area for the saie of right-hand drive vehicies woridwide. Vehicies manufactured in 
Germany are sold to the distribution center in the U.K., and then on to a third 
country. The income earned by the U.K. distribution center wouid be taxed in the 
U.K. (and not Germany untii a dividend was eventuaiiy paid to Germany in which 
case the new tax on 15% of the dividend wouid appiy). 

Now assume that DaimierChrysier, a U.S. company, sent vehicies manufactured 
by its German subsidiary to the U.K. center. The vehicies in the U.K. wiii be soid 
throughout the worid. Under U.S. tax iaws the income earned by the U.K. distribu- 
tion center on vehicies shipped to other countries wouid be taxed immediateiy in the 
U.S. The reason for this is because the new U.K. tax rate of 30% is iess than 90% 
of the U.S. tax rate. In the above two scenarios there is no difference in operation 
for the DaimierChrysier group, oniy a difference in tax resuits. The oniy change in 
facts is the country of incorporation of the parent company. The U.S. company is 
piaced at a decisive disadvantage. 

In the above three circumstances, the foreign source income inciuded in U.S. tax- 
abie income is reportabie in the year the income is earned by the foreign company. 
This is the case whether or not the income is repatriated to the U.S. or whether 
or not the U.S. taxpayer is in a net U.S. taxabie income or ioss position for the year. 
Because of the "basket" ruies adopted in 1986, many taxpayers with iosses may be 
in a position of inciuding this income in their tax base but they cannot offset the 
tax on this income with current foreign tax credits. In these cases, the chance for 
double taxation on theforeign source income increases. 

As can be seen from above, DaimierChrysier Corporation, now a subsidiary of a 
German company, has minimized the possibility of paying ADDITIONAL tax (NOT 
TAXES) on its foreign operations. This should help the operations of the company 
to continue to compete on a global scale. However, there are many U.S. companies 
which have foreign operations and they are put at a competitive disadvantage in 
the global economy, just because they are competing against companies who do not 
have to follow the way the U .S. tax system taxes foreign operations. 

[The Report, Entitled 'THE NFTC FOREIGN INCOME PROJECT: INTER- 
NATIONAL TAX POLICY FOR THE 21ST CENTURY," dated March 25, 1999, is 
being retained in the Committee files.] 


Chairman Archer. Thank you, Mr. Loffredo. 

Our next witness is Mr. Lipner. Mr. Lipner, if you wiii identify 
yourseif for the record, you may proceed. 

STATEMENT OF ALAN J . LIPNER, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, 
TAXES, AMERICAN EXPRESS COMPANY, NEW YORK, NEW YORK 

Mr. Lipner. Good morning, Mr. Chairman and Members of the 
Committee. My name is Ai Lipner. i am the senior vice president 
and chief tax officer of American Express Co. i am pieased to have 
this opportunity to testify on the effect the U.S. tax ruies have on 
the internationai competitiveness of our business. 



21 


American Express has had a strong international business pres- 
ence for more than a century and well before the Sixteenth amend- 
ment to the Constitution was ratified and the Federal income tax 
was first enacted. American Express offers products and services in 
some 200 countries and territories around the world. We offer 
American Express cards issued in 45 different currencies through- 
out the world. Our major competitors are overseas banks and other 
financial institutions that are incorporated and have headquarters 
outside the United States. 

Before 1987, the Subpart F rules permitted U.S. tax to be de- 
ferred on income derived in the active conduct of banking or financ- 
ing business until that income was distributed to a U.S. share- 
holder. In repealing deferral for active financing income, Congress 
focused on U.S. -control led firms operating in tax havens. What 
Congress ignored was that the majority of U.S. -control led banks, fi- 
nance companies, and insurance companies operate overseas 
through a substantial presence in key markets rather than as tax 
haven paper companies. 

While U.S. taxes might appear to be imposed at a relatively mod- 
erate nominal rate compared to the rates imposed by foreign coun- 
tries, in practice U.S. taxes frequently exceed the effective tax rate 
due to more generous foreign country tax rules. When U.S.-owned 
firms are subject to a higher tax burden than their foreign competi- 
tors, this can significantly affect how much to invest in business 
development, how products are priced, and even whether or not to 
continue an investment or continue a business in a foreign market. 
Such factors have influenced some of my company's business deci- 
sions. 

American Express purchased a Swiss bank in 1983. Its business 
operations were exclusively outside the United States and its cus- 
tomers were not U.S. persons. Its effective tax rate was 9 percent 
but was increased to 40 percent in 1987 when the U.S. Suopart F 
rules made its earnings subject to U.S. tax. Our subsidiaries thus 
became subject to a much higher tax rate than our foreign competi- 
tors solely because of U.S. ownership. We disposed of our control- 
ling interest in the Swiss bank in 1990. 

We considered purchasing a United Kingdom life insurance com- 
pany. Although its nominal tax rate was about 34 percent, we were 
faced with the prospect of a tax rate of over 200 percent because 
of the inability to defer U.S. tax on profits and the disparities be- 
tween the tax base under U.S. and foreign tax rules. We did not 
go forward with the purchase. 

Congress has recently made significant progress in addressing 
some of these concerns by restoring deferral on certain active for- 
eign financial services income. These new tax rules have signifi- 
cantly recognized that finance companies, other than banks, are eli- 
gible for deferral in appropriate cases. Unfortunately, the new tax 
rules expire at the end of this year. We hope Congress will enact 
a longer-term solution, rather than a 1-year extension of the cur- 
rent rules, since our business planning and investment decisions 
require a stable set of rules without the uncertainty presented by 
year-to-year changes. 

Turning to the foreign tax credit, the present basket rules often 
make arbitrary distinctions between certain types of income earned 



22 


in an integrated business. For American Express, a noteworthy ex- 
ample concerns our travel business, which the regulations consider 
to be separate from and not incidental to our card and Travelers 
Cheque activities. As a result, a typical transaction with a single 
customer handled by a single American Express employee in an 
American Express Travel office overseas is considered to give rise 
to income and related taxes in two separate foreign credit baskets. 

We appreciate the introduction earlier this month of H.R. 2018, 
the international tax simplification bill, presented by Representa- 
tives Houghton and Levin. 

In conclusion, I would like to thank the Chairman and the Com- 
mittee for their interest in addressing the impact of U.S. tax rules 
on international competitiveness. The business activities of Amer- 
ican Express in key locations of the United States, including New 
York, Minneapolis, Phoenix, and Fort Lauderdale, serve our global 
operations and not just the U.S. market. Assuring a strong com- 
petitive position of our business overseas has a clear and positive 
effect on U.S. business and the U.S. employment base of American 
Express. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of Alan J . Lipner, Senior Vice President, Taxes, American 
Express Company, New York, New York 

Good morning, Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee. My name is Aian 
J . Lipner, Senior Vice President— Taxes of American Express Company. I am 
pieased to have this opportunity to testify on the effect U.S. tax ruies have on the 
internationai competitiveness of our business. In addition to my orai remarks today, 

I have prepared a written statement that, with your permission, I wouid iike to 
have entered into the offidai record of today's hearing. 

As the chief tax officer of one of the worid's ieading finandai services companies, 

I am weii aware of the profound impact tax issues have on our business. In my role 
as Chairman of the Board of The Tax Council and through other groups such as 
the National Foreign Trade Council, I have discussed tax issues of this nature with 
several of my counterparts at other major U.S. companies. My testimony today will 
not focus in detail on the technical tax rules. Instead, I will try to illustrate how 
those tax rules can have an impact upon how our business and other U.S. busi- 
nesses compete against those whose headquarters are outside the United States. 

American Express has a long history of doing business outside the United States. 
This is well known by anyone who has traveled overseas and bought or cashed an 
American Express Travelers Cheque or used an American Express Card to charge 
a purchase. In fact, American Express has had a strong international business pres- 
ence for more than a century— or well before the 16th Amendment to the Constitu- 
tion was ratified and the Federal income tax was first enacted. 

American Express began in 1850 as a shipping company that transported cur- 
rency and other valuable items swiftly and safely to their destinations. A sizeable 
foreign exchange and foreign remittance business developed in the late 19th century 
as a service for new Americans and laid the groundwork for the Company's eventual 
major role in the international financial arena. 

A great step in the company's international expansion came with the introduction 
in 1891 of the American Express Travelers Cheque. This revolutionary financial in- 
strument, with its now familiar signature and countersignature, allowed travelers 
to obtain access to funds without the inconvenience of letters of credit that could 
be honored only within normal banking hours at specified correspondent banks in 
a very time consuming process. The international business expansion that followed 
led to the establishment of a chain of American Express offices— or "homes away 
from home"— in key cities throughout the world around the turn of the century. 

Today, American Express offers its products and services in some 200 countries 
and territories around the world. As in the early days of its international business, 
the company continues to serve U.S. customers whose personal or business affairs 
require our financial services to be available wherever they need them. Over the 
years, our business has expanded to focus also upon non-U .S. customers. This is il- 



23 


lustrated by the fact that American Express Cards are now issued in 45 different 
currencies around the world. Our major competitors overseas are banks and other 
financial institutions that are incorporated and have their headquarters outside the 
United States. 

The two major features of U.S tax rules that affect our international operations 
are the Subpart F rules and the foreign tax credit. Both these areas were modified 
substantially in 1986 in ways that adversely affected both the burdens of tax com- 
pliance and our competitive position vis-a-vis non-U .S. financial services firms. 

Before 1987, the Subpart F rules permitted U.S. tax to be deferred on income de- 
rived in the active conduct of a banking or financing business until that income was 
distributed to a U.S. shareholder. In repealing deferral for active financing income, 
Congress focused on U.S. -controlled firms operating in tax havens and earnings that 
were manipulated for tax reasons. What Congress ignored was that the majority of 
U.S. -control led banks, finance and insurance companies operate overseas through a 
substantial presence in key markets rather than as tax haven "paper" companies. 
These firms compete head-to-head with foreign-controlled companies whose home 
countries do not impose tax on unremitted, reinvested earnings. Also ignored was 
the impact of foreign banking or insurance regulations that often require these busi- 
nesses to be operated by a locally incorporated subsidiary subject to local regulatory 
control . 

While U.S taxes might appear to be imposed at a relatively moderate nominal 
rate compared to the rates imposed by foreign countries, in practice U.S. taxes fre- 
quently exceed the effective foreign tax rate due to more generous foreign rules for 
such items as bad debt deductions or certain preferential income. When U.S-owned 
firms are subject to a higher tax burden than their foreign competitors, this can ob- 
viously affect such factors as how much to invest in business development, how 
products are priced and even whether or not to invest or continue to do business 
in a foreign market. Such tax factors have influenced some of my company's busi- 
ness decisions: 

American Express purchased a Swiss bank in 1983. Its business operations 
were exclusively outside the U.S. and its customers were not U.S. persons. Its 
effective tax rate of about 9% increased to 40% in 1987 when the changes in 
the Subpart F rules made its earnings subject to U.S. tax. Our subsidiary thus 
became subject to a much higher tax rate than our foreign competitors solely 
because of its U.S. ownership. We disposed of our controlling interest in the 
Swiss bank in 1990. 

We considered purchasing a U.K. life insurance company. Although its nomi- 
nal local tax rate was about 34%, we were faced with the prospect of an effec- 
tive tax rate of over 200% because of our inability to defer U .S. tax on its profits 
and disparities between the tax base under U.S. and foreign tax rules. We did 
not go forward with the purchase. 

Congress has recently made significant progress in addressing some of these con- 
cerns by restoring deferral of U.S. tax on certain active foreign financial services in- 
come. These new rules have specifically recognized that finance companies other 
than banks are eligible for deferral in appropriate cases. Unfortunately, the new 
rules expire at the end of this year. We hope Congress will enact a longer-term solu- 
tion rather than a mere one-year extension of the current rules since our business 
planning and investment decisions require a stable set of rules without the uncer- 
tainty presented by year-to-year changes. We appreciate that a substantial number 
of the members of this committee have co-sponsored FI .R. 681, legislation introduced 
by Representatives McCrery and Neal to provide greater certainty. 

T urning to the foreign tax credit, the present separate limitation or "basket" rules 
often make arbitrary distinctions between certain types of income earned in an inte- 
grated business. For American Express, a noteworthy example concerns our Travel 
business, which the tax regulations consider to be separate from and not incidental 
to our Card and Travelers Cheque activities. As a result, a typical transaction with 
a single customer handled by a single employee in an American Express Travel of- 
fice overseas is considered to give rise to income (and related taxes) in two separate 
foreign tax credit baskets. Another example is the so-called "high withholding tax 
interest" basket, which was intended to curb cross-border loans that were not eco- 
nomically sound on a pre-tax basis. By discouraging cross-border lending by U.S. fi- 
nancial institutions, the tax rules have given foreign-controlled lenders a tax-based 
competitive advantage in financing developing economies around the world. A third 
example is the separate basket for "joint ventures" or foreign corporations with be- 
tween 10% and 50% ownership by U.S. firms. We support proposals to accelerate 
a repeal of these rules that inhibit U.S. firms from expanding business overseas by 
investing in strategic alliances with foreign partners. 



24 


Another area of concern to American Express is the excise tax on the purchase 
of frequent fiyer miieage awards from airiines. Some have interpreted this tax to 
appiy not oniy to frequent fiyer points to be awarded to U.S. customers, but aiso 
to any points purchased anywhere in the worid, from any airiine, and for any cus- 
tomer, if there is a mere possibiiity that the points couid be used to obtain an airiine 
ticket to or from the U.S. Since foreign governments and companies have objected 
to this extraterritoriai reach of the U.S. excise tax, the practicai effect is that, ab- 
sent rigorous giobai enforcement, the tax burden wiii faii oniy upon U.S. companies 
doing business overseas and the customers of U.S. -based airiines. 

We appreciate the introduction eariier this month of H.R. 2018, the internationai 
tax si mpiifi cation biii, by Representatives Houghton and Levin. This biii wouid ad- 
dress severai of the probiems I have highiighted above and wouid heip simpiify our 
compiicated internationai tax ruies and encourage competitiveness. 

In conciusion, I wouid iike to thank the Chairman and the Committee for their 
interest in addressing the impact of U.S. tax ruies on internationai competitiveness. 
The business activities American Express conducts at its key ideations in the United 
States, inciuding New York, Minneapolis, Phoenix and Fort Lauderdale, serve our 
global operations and not just the U.S. market. Assuring a strong competitive posi- 
tion for our business overseas has a clear positive effect on our U.S. business and 
employment base. In addition, ensuring a strong position for the financial services 
sector reinforces a competitive strength for the U.S. economy as a whole, as indi- 
cated by the positive contribution the service sector makes to our overall balance 
of payments situation. 

I would be pleased to respond to any questions the Chairman or Members of the 
Committee may have. 


Chairman Archer. Thank you, Mr. Lipner. 

Our next witness is Ms. Stiies. We are happy to have you here 
and weicome. You may proceed. 

STATEMENT OF SALLY A. STILES, INTERNATIONAL TAX 
MANAGER, CATERPILLAR INC., PEORIA, ILLINOIS 

Ms. Stiles. Good morning, Mr. Chairman, Members of the Com- 
mittee. i am Saiiy Stiies. i am an internationai tax manager for 
Caterpiiiar. it is a pieasure to be here this morning and to have 
the opportunity totaik with you about internationai taxation. 

For those of you not entireiy famiiiar with Caterpiiiar, iet me 
begin with a few facts about the company. We are the worid's iarg- 
est manufacturer of constructing and mining equipment, naturai 
gas and diesei engines, and industriai turbines. 

We aiso own and operate subsidiaries that handie financing, in- 
surance, ieasing, and iogistics services. We empioy more than 
40,000 empioyees in the United States and more than 65,000 em- 
pioyees woridwide. We posted saies iast year of neariy $21 biiiion, 
inciuding $6 biiiion in exports from the United States. These export 
saies directiy support 15,000 U.S. jobs at our CAT fadiities and an 
additionai 30,000 jobs with our U.S. suppiiers. 

Mr. Chairman, Caterpiiiar appiauds your efforts to reduce trade 
and tax barriers that U.S. companies face on a daiiy basis. We 
whoieheartediy agree with you that many of our tax poiicies don't 
refiect the current competitive environment facing companies iike 
Caterpiiiar. internationai tax poiicies impiement^ in the sixties, 
and continuaiiy expanded in the years since, have not kept pace 
with the giobai marketpiace. 

The cross border emphasis embodied in the U.S. anti-deferrai 
ruies is rapidiy becoming obsoiete in a worid where the market- 
piace is no ionger defined by country borders. The dramatic events 



25 


unfolding in Europe are certainly the most convincing evidence of 
the changing marketplace. As the world recognizes the European 
Union as a single marketplace, so, too, should the U.S. tax law. 

Mr. Chairman, we support your efforts to preserve two very im- 
portant provisions in the current Tax Code. The Export Source 
Rule and the Foreign Sales Corporation provisions are critically im- 
portant to U.S. exporters. These provisions and the recent decision 
to include active finance company income in the deferral rules have 
helped place U.S. companies on a more level playingfield with their 
foreign competitors. We strongly support permanent extension of 
the active finance provision. 

Let me briefly explain to you why this provision is so important 
to Caterpillar. 

Purchasing high value goods, like Caterpillar equipment, gen- 
erally entails more than simply writing a check. Mr. Chairman, 
you have in front of you a model which represents the little brother 
to our largest mining shovels that are manufactured exclusively in 
our Joliet, Illinois facility. This mammoth equipment generally 
costs in excess of $1 million per unit. And let's bear in mind, many 
of our customers buy in fleets. 

Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and its subsidiaries 
offer competitive leasing and purchasing programs to all our cus- 
tomers, including the nearly 50 percent who are not in the United 
States. 

Until the recent change in the U.S. tax law providing deferral for 
active finance income, the foreign source income generated from 
our foreign financing business was taxable in the United States on 
a current basis. Many of our foreign competitors are able to offer 
flexible financing programs to assist in the purchase of their com- 
petitive equipment without this additional home-country tax bur- 
den. The active finance exception has allowed us to remain com- 
petitive in these programs, but we run the risk of losing what we 
gained if we backtrack now. 

If we are to maintain our primary philosophy of build it here and 
sell it there, we need a modern tax policy that is consistent with 
our global focus. U.S. tax rules must allow us to be competitive bid- 
ders when opportunities arise rather than placing us at an imme- 
diate disadvantage. 

Several Members of this Committee have been instrumental in 
proposing and helping to enact simplification measures to our 
international tax system. We encourage those efforts to continue. 
The compliance cost associated with the incredibly complex U.S. 
international tax rules are enormous. 

Let's keep our eye on the long-term benefits to the U.S. economy, 
ensuring U.S. companies remain globally competitive, recognizing 
and responding to the tax-related challenges of new technologies 
and new markets. By working together, we can assure our future 
generations an opportunity to participate in world markets, instead 
of apologizing for lost opportunities. 

I will be happy to answer any questions at the appropriate time. 
Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 



26 


statement of Sally A. Stiles, I nternational Tax Manager, Caterpiller I nc., 

Peoria, Illinois 

Good morning Mr. Chairman and members of the Committee, I am Saiiy Stiies, 

I nternationai Tax Manager for Caterpiiiar Inc. It's a pleasure to be here and to have 
the opportunity to talk with you about international taxation. 

For those of you not entirely familiar with Caterpillar, let me begin with some 
facts about the company. We are the world's largest manufacturer of construction 
and mining equipment, natural gas and diesel engines, and industrial turbines. 

We also own and operate subsidiaries that handle financing, insurance, leasing 
programs, countertrade and logistics services. We employ 65,000 employees world- 
wide and posted sales last year of nearly $21 billion, including $6 billion in exports 
from the United States. These export sales directly support 15,000 U.S. jobs and an 
additional 30,000 jobs with our U.S. suppliers. 

Mr. Chairman, Caterpillar applauds your efforts to reduce trade and tax barriers 
that U.S. companies face on a daily basis. We wholeheartedly agree with you that 
many of our tax policies don't reflect the current competitive environment facing 
companies like Caterpillar. Tax policies implemented in the 1960's and continually 
expanded in theyears since have not kept pace with the global marketplace. 

The cross border emphasis embodied in the U.S. anti-deferral rules is rapidly be- 
coming obsolete in a world where the marketplace is no longer defined by country 
borders. The dramatic events unfolding in Europe are certainly the most convincing 
evidence of the changing marketplace. As the world recognizes the European Union 
as a single marketplace so too should the U.S. tax laws. 

Mr. Chairman we support your efforts to preserve two very important features of 
the current tax code. The Export Source Rule and the Foreign Sales Corporation 
provisions are critically important to U.S. exporters. These provisions and the recent 
decision to include active finance company income in the deferral rules have helped 
place U.S. companies on a more level playing field with their foreign competitors. 
We strongly support permanent extension of the active finance provision. 

Let me briefly explain why this provision is so important to Caterpillar. 

Purchasing high value goods like Caterpillar ^uipment generally entails more 
than simply writing a check. The model you have in front of you represents the little 
brother of our largest mining shovels that are manufactured exclusively in our J oliet 
Illinois facility. This mammoth ^uipment generally costs in excess of one million 
dollars per unit ... and let's bear in mind many customers buy in fleets. 

Caterpillar Financial Services Corporation and its subsidiaries offer competitive 
leasing and purchasing programs to all our customers— including the nearly fifty 
percent who are not i n the U nited States. 

Until the recent change to U.S. tax law providing deferral for active finance in- 
come, the foreign source income generated from our foreign financing business was 
taxable in the United States on a current basis. Many of our foreign competitors 
are able to offer flexible financing programs to assist in the purchase of their com- 
petitive equipment without this additional home-country tax burden. The active fi- 
nance exception has allowed us to remain competitive in these programs, but we run 
the risk of losing what we've gained if we backtrack now. 

If we are to maintain our primary philosophy of "build it here and sell it there," 
we need a modern tax policy that is consistent with our global focus. U.S. tax rules 
must allow us to be competitive bidders when opportunities arise rather than plac- 
ing us at an immediate disadvantage. 

Several members of this Committee have been instrumental in proposing and 
helping to enact simplification measures to our international tax system. We encour- 
age those efforts to continue. The compliance costs associated with the incredibly 
complex U.S. international tax rules are enormous. 

Let's keep our eyes on the long-term benefits to the U.S. economy, ensuring U.S. 
companies remain globally competitive, recognizing and responding to the tax-re- 
lated challenges of new technologies and new markets. By working together, we can 
assure future generations of Americans an opportunity to participate in world mar- 
kets— instead of apologizing for lost possibilities. 

As stated in the discussion above, the U.S. anti-deferral rules must be reformed 
if U .S. companies are to fully participate in world markets. The Foreign Base Com- 
pany Income rules and the Foreign Personal Flolding Company Income rules make 
it impossible for U.S. companies to enjoy the same economies of centralized oper- 
ations that are available to their foreign competitors. Under current U.S. rules, the 
cross border transactions that are inherent in centralized operations such as treas- 
ury centers, distribution operations, marketing and "back office" service centers are 
all currently taxable in the United States. Income associated with these centralized 



27 


operations is deariy active business income and shouid not be subject to current 
U.S. taxation. 

The Foreign Tax Credit Limitation caicuiation is another area of the internationai 
tax iaw that is very much in need of reform. The ruies dictating the segregation 
of income into the various baskets have become so overiy compiicated that compii- 
ance efforts are not oniy costiy but aiso error prone. Acceieration of the provisions 
aiiowing iook-thru treatment for dividends of N on-control ied Section 902 Corpora- 
tions and extension of the allowable period for foreign tax credit carryforwards are 
measures that, if adopted, would provide some relief in this area. 

The expense allocation and apportionment rules are no less complicated and bur- 
densome than the income sourcing rules. In particular, the interest expense appor- 
tionment rules are not only a complex administrative burden but also unfairly pe- 
nalize U.S. multinational companies with U.S. financial subsidiaries. Under current 
rules interest expense may not be netted against interest income and must be ap- 
portioned on the asset method. For U.S. companies with foreign subsidiaries a sig- 
nificant portion of this interest expense will be apportioned to foreign source income 
in spite of the fact that the expense was incurred solely to fund U.S. financial trans- 
actions. 

The volume of information that must be collected from foreign locations to comply 
with the U.S. informational reporting requirements has become a tremendous bur- 
den on U.S. multinational companies. Adopting US GAAP accounting for the deter- 
mination of Earnings and Profits for both informational and Subpart F calculations 
would greatly simplify this process. 


Chairman Archer. Thank you, Ms. Stiles. 

Our last witness on this panel is Mr. Finnerty, welcome. You 
may proceed. 

STATEMENT OF PETER J . FINNERTY, VICE PRESIDENT, PUB- 
LIC AFFAIRS, SEA-LAND SERVICE, INC., AND VICE PRESI- 
DENT, MARITIME AFFAIRS, CSX CORPORATION, RICHMOND, 
VIRGINIA 

Mr. Finnerty. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman and Mem- 
bers of the Committee. I am Peter Finnerty, Vice President, Public 
Affairs, Sea-Land Service. And I am very appreciative of the oppor- 
tunity to testify today on the significant adverse impact of U.S. tax 
rules on the international competitiveness of the United States 
Merchant Marine and some proposed solutions. 

Sea-Land is the largest ocean carrier in the United States, with 
a global fleet of about 100 container ships serving 120 ports in 80 
countries. Thirty-five of our ships are registered in the United 
States. Our inter-modal network operates with about 220,000 
freight containers, port terminals, extensive computer and commu- 
nications technology on five continents. It is a highly capital inten- 
sive business. 

As set forth in my full statement, U.S.-flag carriers are proud of 
our record of innovation. Sea-Land invented containerization in 
1956 when the initial voyage sailed from New York to Flouston, 
Texas. In the years since, however, the U.S.-flag fleet has been 
struggling under a heavy tax burden whereas foreign nations pur- 
posely do not tax their international shipping activities so they will 
be more competitive on the high seas. 

The U.S. tax burden takes many forms. I n addition to income tax 
and various fees, there is the alternative minimum tax and the 
very onerous 50 percent duty on U.S.-flag vessel maintenance and 
repair. 



28 


The administration now proposes to impose an added $1 billion 
a year in harbor dredging taxes. U.S. ocean carriers have testified, 
seeking relief from the heavy tax burden in the past. I testified be- 
fore this Committee in 1980 on this same point. J ohn Snow, our 
chairman of CSX Corp., our parent company, and J ohn Lillie, then 
chairman of American President Companies, testified in 1993 be- 
fore the Senate. And again in 1995, U.S.-flag carriers stressed that 
the tax gap between us and our foreign-flag competitors is large. 

H.R. 2159, introduced J une 10, 1999, by Congressman McCrery 
and cosponsored by Congressmen Merger, Jefferson, and Aber- 
crombie, proposes a number of beneficial changes to the Capital 
Construction Fund to increase its effectiveness in helping U.S.-flag 
vessel operators to generate private investment capital for new 
U.S.-flag ships and operating equipment. The U.S.-flag maritime 
industry strongly supports this measure, and we urge its early ap- 
proval by the Committee. 

And I would like to submit a letter to that extent for the record. 

[The information had not been received at the time of printing.] 

Mr. Finnerty. The Capital Construction Fund changes would in- 
clude a broadening of the scope of U.S.-flag vessels "eligible" to 
make deposits into a CCF. U.S.-flag vessels operated in the ocean- 
going domestic trade and in trade between foreign ports would be 
included as qualified vessels. And containers and trailers which are 
part of the complement of an "eligible" vessel could be purchased 
with CCF funds. Qualified withdrawals from a CCF account for 
vessels would continue to be limited to U.S.-flag vessels built in the 
United States. A very important change would allow a CCF fund- 
holder the right to elect a deposit into a CCF of all or a portion 
of the amount that would otherwise be payable to the Secretary of 
the Treasury as a duty on foreign repairs to U.S.-flag vessels im- 
posed by section 466 of the T ariff Act of 1930. 

These tax improvements would benefit the same U.S.-flag ships 
that the Department of Defense relies upon for support of the 
Armed Forces in such contingencies as Vietnam and Desert Storm. 

The economic and national security of our country depend on this 
Nation's ability to guarantee the flow of goods in international com- 
merce through U.S. ports. It is critical that the Committee approve 
H.R. 2159 to ensure future competitiveness of the U.S. Flag Mer- 
chant Marine. 

Thank you. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of Peter J . Finnerty, Vice President, Public Affairs, Sea-Land 

Service, Inc., and Vice President, Maritime Affairs, CSX Corporation, 

Richmond, Virginia 


Key Points 

• By increasing the economic cost of new vesseis for U.S. shipowners, U.S. tax 
ruies have hindered the development of a United States-fiag commerdai merchant 
fieet in the foreign trades of sufficient size and capacity to maintain its share of U.S. 
internationai oceanborne trade over the iast haif of the 20th Century. As U.S. wa- 
terborne imports and exports increased five-foid, the share of that trade carried on 
United States-fiag ships dropped from 60 percent (in 1947) to iess than 3 percent 
(1997). 

• This competitive handicap can be directiy attributed to U.S. tax ruies— not the 
competitiveness of the U.S. industry itseif. During this period, technology and logis- 
tics innovations developed by the U.S. industry virtually revolutionized inter- 



29 


national shipping, and in every segment of the fleet today's U.S.-flag vessels are 
highly efficient and fully competitive with their foreign counterparts. For example, 
the U.S. liner industry today carries 25 percent more cargo than 30 years ago with 
70 percent fewer ships. 

• Nor is this a question of U.S. ship acquisition— United States-flag ships in the 
international trades can be purchased on the same international shipbuilding mar- 
ket as ships of our foreign competitors. The key difference is that because of U.S. 
tax rules, American shipowners must purchase those ships with after-tax dollars 
whereas foreign operators generally can do so with pre-tax funds. As a result, Amer- 
ican shipowners face a 35 percent economic disadvantage before a ship even hits the 
water. 

• Other aspects of U.S. tax rules have a similar impact on the availability of oper- 
ating revenues for investment in new ships. On average, our new ships would pay 
about $1 million a year more in taxes, per ship, than our foreign competitors. More- 
over, even in our unprofitable years, we remain subject to the Alternative Minimum 
Tax. If a United States-flag carrier and a foreign carrier each earns $10 million in 
operating revenues, after national taxes are applied, the foreign carrier still has $10 
million availableto reinvest, whilethe American carrier has only $6.5 million. 

• FI.R. 2159, the "United States-Flag Merchant Marine Revitalization Act of 
1999," now before this Committee, proposes key changes to U.S.-flag tax rules to in- 
crease the international competitiveness of U.S.-flag shipping companies in inter- 
national oceanborne trade. If enacted, these changes would make the existing Cap- 
ital Construction Fund program a much more effective means of generating private 
investment capital for new ships and equipments for the United States-Flag Mer- 
chant Fleet. 


Statement 

Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee: Good morning my name is Peter 
Finnerty, Vice President of Public Affairs for Sea-Land Service, Inc. and of Maritime 
Affairs for CSX Corporation, Sea-Land's corporate parent. ^ I am pleased to appear 
before the Committee today to discuss the impact of U.S. tax rules on the inter- 
national competitiveness of the United States maritime industry and to stress the 
importance of proposed changes to those rules as embodied in FI.R. 2159, the United 
States-Flag Merchant Marine Act of 1999, now pending before this Committee. 

I . I NTRODUCTION 

The ability of the American shipowner competing in international shipping mar- 
kets to build and operate ships on a comparable economic basis as our foreign com- 
petitors is vital to the competitiveness of the U.S.-flag industry. And tax rules are 
key to that equation. The U.S. tax environment under which we must compete— 
but from which our foreign competitors are largely exempt— impacts both our day 
to day operating competitiveness and our ability to acquire new or replacement ton- 
nage for our fleets. 

The problem is not that these rules make it impossible for us to compete in inter- 
national shipping. Make no mistake about it— today's United States-flag commercial 
fleet operating in the foreign trades is highly competitive and more than capable 
of out-performing our foreign-flag rivals in head-to-head competition on a level com- 
petitive playing field. For example, we carry as much cargo today as 40 years ago, 
but with fewer ships than at any point in our history. 

The problem with U.S. tax rules, however, is that they force us to play catch-up 
from the very day we first contract to build a new ship. Even though we can build 
our ships in the same shipyards as our foreign competitors, for roughly the same 
delivered contract price, by and large our foreign competitors can purchase those 
ships with pre-tax dollars whereas under U.S. tax law the majority of our invest- 
ment must come from post-tax dollars. Thus, we have to out-perform our competi- 
tors on the operating sidejust to catch-up economically. 

Moreover, those same U.S. tax rules make it more difficult for us to compete eco- 
nomically in daily operations. For example, many of our competitors are based in 
countries whose tax regimes exempt earnings of national flag ships operated in 
international commerce from taxation altogether, whereas United States-flag opera- 
tors are subject to U.S. tax law for all such revenues. Thus, not only can our foreign 
competitors invest pre-tax dollars in new ships, but the tax rules under which they 


^Disclosure required under Truth in Testimony Rule; Sea-Land Service, Inc. contracts with 
the United States Government under the Maritime Security Act of 1996, 46 U.S.C. 652 et seq., 
and for oceanborne transportation services under 10 U.S.C. 2631 and 46 U.S.C. 901. 



30 


operate leave them more of such revenues with which to make those purchases. 
Similarly, if one of our ships and one of their ships go into the same foreign ship- 
yard to receive the same repairs at the same contract cost, our repairs end up cost- 
ing us 50 percent more due to U.S. tax rules that impose a 50 percent ad valorem 
duty on such repairs. 

The cumulative effect of the economic penalties imposed on United States-flag 
shipping companies by U.S. tax rules over the last 50 years is clear. Immediately 
following the end of WWII, United States-flag ships carried almost 60 percent of 
U.S. oceanborne commerce moving in international trade (by tonnage). Today that 
figure is less than 3 percent. ^ Yet today's American ships are more efficient than 
ever— in the liner trades, for example, compared to 25 years ago. United States-flag 
ships carry 25-35 percent more cargo with 70-80 percent fewer vessels. 

Why then has the percentage of cargoes carried by U.S. -flag ships in foreign 
trades declined so precipitously? Why are more than 97 out of every 100 tons of 
cargo entering or leaving a U.S. port in international commerce moving on foreign- 
flag ships? The answer is not that the U.S. fleet is inefficient— it is not— or that 
American companies simply cannot compete in international shipping. The answer 
is that even though the amount of cargo carried by American ships has remained 
unchanged for virtually the last 40 years, U.S. trade has increased almost five-fold 
over that same period— and virtually all of the increase is being carried by foreign- 
flag ships. 

Operating under U.S. tax rules, the U.S. -flag fleet modernized and led the world 
in the introduction of new technologies that revolutionized international shipping. 
But at the same time, it failed to grow. Conversely, encouraged by their own, more 
favorable tax regimes, foreign shipping companies adopted the American companies' 
new technologies, invested in increasing numbers of modern, well-built ships (using 
tax-exempt dollars), grew in both vessel and total fleet capacity, and now dominate 
U.S. international waterborne commerce. 

Following a brief introduction to Sea-Land and to the present state of the U.S.- 
flag industry, my testimony today will focus on two points: 

• The impact of existing tax rules on the economic competitiveness of U.S. -flag 
ships and shipping companies in the foreign trades; and 

• Proposed solutions to two aspects of that impact: 

• Investment in new ships; and 

• Repairs in non-U .S. shipyards. 

In closing, I will also briefly address the role a portion of these proposed changes 
would play in the future modernization of the U.S. -flag fleet operating in the non- 
contiguous trades with the U.S. mainland, trades in which Sea-Land also operates. 
While not in direct competition with foreign shipping, the ability of U.S. carriers in 
those trades to replace existing tonnage with new ships as we enter the 21st Cen- 
tury in as cost-efficient a manner as possible will play an important role in our abil- 
ity to continue to provide American shippers in those trades with the same safe, re- 
liable and cost effective service as today. 

II. Introduction to Sea-Land Service 

Sea-Land Service, Inc., headquartered in Charlotte, NC, is a worldwide leader in 
container shipping transportation and related trade services. Sea-Land operates a 
fleet of about 100 containerships under both United States and foreign flags and ap- 
proximately 220,000 containers. Placed end-to-end, this equates to a solid line of 
containers stretching from Washington, DC to somewhere between St. Louis, MO 
and Denver, CO (depending on whether they are 20- or 40-foot units). Sea-Land's 
ships serve 120 ports in 80 countries and territories. 

II I . The U.S.-F lag F leet Today 

I n recent years, there has been much debate over the declining numbers of ocean- 
going U.S. -flag ships operating in the foreign trades. Those numbers, however, tell 
only a part of the story. It is important to look beyond the declining number of ves- 
sels in this part of the U.S. -flag fleet to assess its present state.^ For example, be- 


^U.S. Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration, MARAD 98, at 49. The range 
in numbers resuits from variations in the categories of vessels counted for those trades across 
this period of time. 

^Indeed, on the domestic side, where all vessels operate under the same tax rules, the United 
States-flag fleet has more than doubled in size (based on the same size vessel as discussed in 
the text) and tripled in productivity. Today, that fleet includes almost 1,900 such large commer- 
cial vessels (compared to only 861 in 1965) and carries over 1 billion tons cargo annually. 



31 


tween 1965 and 1995, the U.S.-flag oceangoing fleet decreased by 62 percent based 
on the numbers of vessels, but increased its total cargo carrying capacity by 15 per- 
cent. Moreover, productivity in that fleet— as measured by output (tons carried) per 
seagoing employee— increased at an annual rate (16 percent) that was 8 times the 
productivity gains being achieved by American business as a whole during the same 
period! Clearly American ships and crews can be competitive in international ship- 
ping markets. 

The U.S.-flag dry cargo liner fleet provides a textbook example of increased pro- 
ductivity during this period. The Shipping Act of 1984 affirmed the longstanding 
U.S. policy of permitting U.S. carriers to participate in liner conferences on the 
same basis as foreign carriers that was first enacted in the Shipping Act, 1916. 
Under the stable investment climate created by those Acts, U.S. finer carriers be- 
came world leaders in the industry through technological development and mar- 
keting innovation. As containerships replaced breakbulks in the liner trades, the 
number of U.S.-flag vessels in the international liner trades declined, but the cargo 
carrying capacity of the U.S. liner fleet actually grew substantially. When non-liner 
vessels are excluded from the analysis of the U.S.-flag foreign trade fleet shown 
above and only the U.S.-flag liner fleet is considered— which is the portion of the 
fleet most affected by the Shipping Act— it becomes clear that to a great extent the 
changes in the size and composition of that fleet over the past 20 years represent 
a continuing process of downsizing and modernizing. 

In 1975, for example, the total U.S. liner fleet (foreign and domestic trades) num- 
bered 278 ships (compared to its current size of roughly 138 ships), but the 1975 
fleet included 142 older, general cargo (or "breakbulk") vessels that were rapidly be- 
coming commercially obsolete as a result of the general shift to containers for non- 
bulk dry cargo shipments. By 1995, the general cargo side of the liner fleet had 
dropped from 142 to just 16 ships— simply because that type of ship was no longer 
commercially viable. In contrast, although the number of intermodal vessels^ (pri- 
marily containerships) in the U.S. liner fleet declined slightly between 1975 and 
1995 (from 136 to 122 ships or by roughly 10 percent), the total deadweight tonnage, 
or cargo carrying capacity, of that part of the fleet actually increased by 35 percent 
as new, larger, faster vessels replaced the early, smaller classes of containerships. 

This modernization process continued throughout the decade following the 1984 
Shipping Act. Between 1984 and 1994, the number of intermodal ships in the U.S.- 
flag foreign trading liner fleet declined slightly (down 7 percent from 74 to 69 ships), 
but the deadweight tonnage of that same fleet increased by 19 percent over the 
same decade. The 69 ships in 1994 carried 25 percent more total cargo tonnage in 
international trade than did all 218 ships in the U.S. foreign trading fleet in 1975. 
Put simply, today’s U .S.-flag foreign trade liner fleet carries 25 percent more cargoes 
in a year with almost 70 percent fewer ships. Thus, as these figures show, while 
its numbers may be less, the U.S.-flag liner fleet in the foreign trades today is sub- 
stantially stronger and more productive than it was in 1975. 

IV. Impact of U.S. Tax Rules on Competitiveness 

If United States-flag ships and their American crews individually have been able 
to successfully compete in international trade for cargoes up to the amounts carried 
by U.S. ships historically over the last 30-40 years, why have U.S. shipping compa- 
nies, or the United States-flag fleet overall, been largely unable to compete effec- 
tively for cargoes beyond that amount? The answer simply is in large part due to 
the impact of U.S. tax rules on the competitiveness of those American companies 
in international commerce. 

A. Impact of U.S. Tax Rules 

In recent years, American shipping companies have testified before Congress on 
numerous occasions detailing challenges faced by then in the international shipping 
market. And Congress has responded over the years, most recently with the Ocean 


‘‘The term intermodal refers to transportation in the course of which the goods or passengers 
being carried transfer from one mode to another (e.g., from truck to railcar to oceangoing vessel). 
While this term can be used to describe virtually all modern transportation except trips in pri- 
vate automobiles, its use here is limited to referring to the movement of containerized goods 
or of wheeled vehicles (e.g., truck trailers) employing either containerships, roll-on/roll-off ships, 
or barges designed for those purposes whether operating separately or when carried on specially 
designed larger "LASH" ships. The remaining categories of waterborne freight transportation 
are bulk (cargo loaded "without mark or count") employing ships or barges described same term 
and general or breakbulk, which refers to cargoes loaded as individual items on board a ship 
or barge also described using that term, a practice generally no longer employed in much of the 
maritime industry. 



32 


Shipping Reform Act of 1998, which entered into effect this iast May 1st. Indeed, 
the heightened competition in internationai iiner shipping services that wiii occur 
as a resuit of that Act further highiight the need for Congress to address the tax 
ruies appiicabietotheU.S.-fiag shipping industry. 

In 1993, for example, J ohn Snow, the Chairman of CSX Corporation, and J ohn 
Lillie, then Chairman of American President Companies, testified before the Mer- 
chant Marine Subcommittee of the Senate Committee on Commerce, Science and 
Transportation, that the tax difference between a U.S.-flag and a foreign-flag vessel 
amounted to an estimated $1 million annually for their companies per vessel. ^ 

Two years later, in a J oint Statement submitted to the same committee, a group 
of U.S.-flag carriers again addressed the tax issue in the following manner: 

The Tax Gap Between Us and Our Competitors Is Large U.S. -based liner compa- 
nies are subject to significantly higher taxes than their foreign-based counterparts. 
In testimony two years ago before this Committee, APL and Sea-Land submitted 
data showing that, as a result of shipping income tax exemptions, deferral devices, 
and accelerated depreciation, many of our foreign competitors pay virtually no in- 
come taxes (neither do their crews under many foreign tax regimes). Yet here at 
home, even in our unprofitable years, we are subject to the Alternative Minimum 
Tax. Consequently, U.S.-flag operators must earn more in the marketplace than 
their competitors in order to earn the same amount for reinvestment or distribution 
to shareholders. For example, if a U.S.-flag carrier and a foreign-flag carrier each 
earn $10 million, the foreign-flag carrier generally has $10 million left after apply- 
ing national income taxes. The U.S.-flag carrier has only $6.5 million (applying a 
35 percent Federal corporate rate and ignoring any State income tax consider- 
ations.® 

At that time, the carriers stated they were not before the committee to seek mari- 
time tax reform legislation, but acknowledged that such legislation "would be a 
great help." 

Also in 1993, the General Accounting Office ("GAO") conducted a study that found 
the commercial maritime industry had been assessed $11.9 billion in taxes during 
fiscal year 1991. GAO identified 12 federal agencies as levying a total of 117 diverse 
assessments on the industry, 92 of which are specific to and paid only by the mari- 
time industry. Such taxes included the FI arbor Maintenance Tax (since repealed for 
exports only), vessel entry processing fees, the vessel tonnage tax, and an inland wa- 
terways fuel tax. These agencies included: 

• Animal and Plant Flealth Inspection Service 

• Coast Guard 

• Customs Service 

• Federal Communications Commission 

• Internal Revenue Service 

• Surface Transportation Board 

• Maritime Administration 

• National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration 

• Panama Canal Commission 

• St. Lawrence Seaway Development Corporation 

Since the 1993 study, additional taxes have been imposed. For example, the U.S. 
Coast Guard is now charging fees for a number of services it provides, including fees 
for vessel inspections (which it requires to be made), licensing and documentation 
of vessels, as well as fees charged to mariners for individual licenses and docu- 
mentation. Moreover, the 105th Congress rejected an effort by the Office of Manage- 
ment and Budget to tax only commercial vessel operators for navigational assistance 
services, such as buoy placement and maintenance, vessel traffic services, and radio 
and satellite navigation systems. 

6. Cumulative I mpact on Competitiveness 

The following graph illustrates the cumulative effect of these disparate economic 
conditions over the last 50 years. As noted above, immediately following the end of 
WWII, United States-flag ships carried almost 60 percent of U.S. oceanborne com- 
merce moving in international trade (by tonnage). Today that figure is less than 3 


^Hearing before the Merchant Marine Subcommittee of the U.S. Senate Committee on Com- 
merce, Science and Transportation, on the "Impiications of the U.S. Government's Decision Not 
to Support a U.S.-Fiag Fieet," August 5, 1993. 

®FI earing before the Merchant Marine Subcommittee of the U.S. Senate Committee on Com- 
merce, Science and Transportation, supporting "Prompt Enactment of Authorizing and Appro- 
priations Legisiation to Revitaiize the United States-Fiag Liner Fieet, "J uiy 26, 1995. 



33 


percent.^ As U.S. trade grew, U.S.-flag shipping companies continued to compete ef- 
fectively for generally the same amounts of cargo as over the last 40 years. Foreign- 
flag shipping companies, on the other hand, were able to take advantage of the fa- 
vorable investment climates created by their national tax r^imes to purchase large 
numbers of new ships, capturing virtually all of the growth intheU.S. market. 


U.S. Foreign Oceanborne Trade 



■^^toi/)Lninto<o<oco«>a>N-r»-t^f^f~-<oo3cococt)w050 

cn03cr>CT>cr>a>o>a!Cn<3>CB<BC35a>oio>o>CT>cno>o>o>d5oa> 


C. Opportunity Cost on Competitiveness 

The preceding graph also illustrates the opportunity cost of U.S. tax rules on the 
United States-flag merchant fleet, particularly as those rules have limited the abil- 
ity of American shipowners to purchase on a competitive basis the new vessels need- 
ed to expand the U.S.-flag fleet as required to capture ongoing growth in U.S. ocean- 
borne trade, or, indeed, to even maintain existing market shares. This is amply 
demonstrated by thefollowing example. 

In 1965, the overall share of U.S. international trade moving on U.S.-flag ships 
on a tonnage basis was 7.5 percent (compared to 3.0 percent today). As the following 
table illustrates, had U.S. shipowners been able to invest in new tonnage as U.S. 
trade grew over the last 30 years— as did the foreign shipowners whose ships now 
carry those cargoes— today's United States-flag foreign-trading fleet could be almost 
3 times its present size. 

Impact of Lost Opportunity on U.S.-Flag Foreign Trading Fleet 


Segment 

1965 U.S.- 
Flag Share 

Projected 
1997 Tonnage 

No. Ships 
(1997) 

Notional 
Ships Based 
on Projected 
Tonnage 

Dry Bulk 

4.8% 

19.6 M 

8 

20 

Liner 

22.8% 

29.2 M 

59 

157 

Tanker 

5.5% 

24.1 M 

13 

33 

Total Ships 



80 

210 


V. Proposed Changes to U.S. Tax Rules 

Today, the Capital Construction Fund (":CCF") provides the primary means under 
the U.S. Tax Code for a U.S.-flag shipowner to accumulate capital to invest in new 
ships on a basis that even remotely approaches the economic benefits available to 
our foreign competitors under their national tax regimes. As illustrated above, while 
the U.S. system has enabled the U.S. fleet overall to stay even with its foreign com- 


^U.S. Department of Transportation, Maritime Administration, MARAD 98, at 49. The range 
in numbers results from variations in the categories of vessels counted for those trades across 
this period of time. 




34 


petition in terms of the amount of cargo historicaiiy carried by U.S. ships in inter- 
nationai commerce, it has faiied to provide a basis for growth. As a resuit, the U.S.- 
fiag fieet continues to iose market share to foreign ships and operators. 

H.R. 2159, the "United States-Fiag Merchant Marine Revitaiization Act of 1999," 
introduced J une 10, 1999, by Representative McCrery and co-sponsored by Rep- 
resentatives Merger, J efferson, and Abercrombie, and referred to this Committee, 
proposes a number of changes to the CCF and the tax treatment accorded funds de- 
posited therein to increase its effectiveness in heiping to generate private invest- 
ment capitai for new United States-fiag ships and operating equipment. We strongiy 
support this measure and urge its prompt consideration by the Committee and its 
eariy enactment. 

A. Capital Construction Fund 

The Capitai Construction Fund (or "CCF") Program set forth is section 607 of the 
Merchant Marine Act of 1936 and Section 7518 of the Internai Revenue Code of 
1986 is designed to provide competitive tax treatment to U.S.-fiag vessei operators 
and to encourage construction, reconstruction and acquisition in United States ship- 
yards of new vesseis for the U.S.-fiag foreign, domestic non-contiguous. Great Lakes, 
and fisheries fieets. Under the CCF, maritime and fisheries operators enter into 
binding contracts with the federai government which aiiow them to defer U.S. in- 
come tax on certain funds to be used for an approved shipbuiiding program. The 
deferred tax is then recouped by the U.S. Treasury through reduced depreciation as 
the tax basis of a vessel purchased with CCF funds is reduced to compensate for 
the tax deferral. 

Under CCF, an operator is permitted to deposit into a CCF account revenues de- 
rived from the operation in the covered trades of an "eligible" vessel and to use 
those deposits for purchase of a new "qualified" vessel built in a U.S. shipyard. 
While the proposed changes will not alter this basic equation, they will reduce the 
competitive handicap of these U.S. tax rules by expanding the definitions of such 
vessels and how CCF funds are treated under the Code. 

B. Proposed Changes 

The purpose of the proposed changes is to revitalize the international competitive- 
ness of the United States-fiag merchant marine. This is accomplished by providing 
a tax environment which, as compared with current U.S. tax rules, more closely ap- 
proximates the favorable tax environments provided by other maritime nations to 
their national flag merchant fleets. Absent the proposed tax reforms, U.S.-fiag car- 
riers will continue to face a formidable tax cost disadvantage against foreign flag 
carriers who pay little or no tax in their home countries. Moreover, U.S. operators 
in the domestic oceangoing coastwise and noncontiguous trades would be encour- 
aged to invest in construction of new or replacement vessels for those trades in U.S. 
shipyards, with increased benefits to the American shippers served by those trades 
and the U.S. economy generally. 

The proposed changes to the CCF and how CCF funds are treated under existing 
U.S. tax rules include thefollowing: 

• Modernize the scope of vessels covered by the CCF regime by including foreign- 
built, U.S.-fiag vessels as eligible vessels for purposes of CCF deposits. Additionally, 
U.S.-fiag vessels operated in the oceangoing domestic trade and in trade between 
foreign ports are to be included within the definition of qualified vessels for pur- 
poses of purchases using CCF. Moreover, containers and trailers that are part of the 
complement of a qualified vessel would become eligible for CCF purchase. Qualified 
withdrawals from a CCF account for vessels, however, would continue to be limited 
to U.S.-fiag ships built in U.S. shipyards. 

• Allow CCF withdrawals to be used to fund the principal amount of a lease of 
qualified vessels or containers if the lease is for a period of at least five years. This 
recognizes the widespread use of leasing as a modern financing technique for vessel 
acquisition, a change that has occurred since the original enactment of CCF . 

• Allow fundholders the right to elect deposit into a CCF all or a portion of the 
amount that would otherwise be payable to the Secretary of the Treasury as a duty 
on foreign repairs to U.S.-fiag vessels imposed by section 466 of the Tariff Act of 
1930 (19 U.S.C. 1466)("ad valorem duty"). 

• Allow fundholders the flexibility to exceed the normal cap for deposits into the 
CCF during a taxable year where such excess results from an audit adjustment for 
a prior tax year which increases the deposit cap for that year. The excess that may 
be deposited equals only the amount which could have been deposited under the cap 
for that year, less the amount actually deposited. 

• Broadens the category of investments into which CCF account funds can be in- 
vested. Thus, a CCF could invest not only in "interest bearing securities" but also 



35 


in "other income producing assets (inciuding accounts receivabie)" so iong as the 
Secretary of Transportation approves the investment. 

• As appiicabie, wouid make conforming changes to the Merchant Marine Act of 
1936, the I nternai Revenue Code, and other provisions of U.S. iaw needed to accom- 
piish the foregoing changes. 

VI. Benefit for Coastwise/Non-Contiguous Trades 

As noted, the proposed changes wouid affect not oniy United States-fiag ships op- 
erated in the foreign trades, but wouid provide simiiar benefits to ships in the 
oceangoing domestic coastwise, the non-contiguous, and the Great Lakes trades of 
the United States. In these latter cases, the issue is not so much the impact of U.S. 
tax rules on the international competitiveness of those ships themselves— inasmuch 
as they do not compete directly with foreign ships— but rather on the competitive- 
ness of the American industries and local U.S. economies dependent on such ship- 
ping in domestic commerce. 

The greater the efficiency and cost effectiveness of those segments of the U .S.-flag 
fleet in transporting domestic goods to market or to loading ports for foreign trade, 
the more competitive those industries can be in the global marketplace. The ability 
to build new, more modern ships for those trades— as provided under the proposed 
changes— will bean important factor in ensuring continued improvements in service 
and lowered costs for American shippers. 

VII. Summary & Closing 

For the last half-century, U.S. tax rules have hindered the international competi- 
tiveness of the United States-fiag commercial merchant fleet in the foreign trades. 
Faced with competition from foreign-flag ships granted favorable tax treatment by 
their national states, U.S. ships and shipping companies have seen the share of U.S. 
international oceanborne commerce carried by U.S. -flag ships decline steadily over 
this period, despite a five-fold increase in such trade. As U.S. trade grew, foreign 
shipping companies were able to invest in newer, more numerous ships, using tax- 
free funds, while U.S. shipowners were generally limited to using primarily after- 
tax dollars for such investments. 

Even where U.S. programs like CCF existed, their limited scope made it possible 
for U.S. companies to replace existing ships with newer ships, but not to expand 
their fleets to compete for new cargoes. As a result, foreign ships now dominate U.S. 
international trade. The economic and national security of the United States depend 
on this Nation's continued ability to guarantee the flow of goods in international 
commerce through U.S. ports. Where, as here, U.S. tax rules have hindered the com- 
petitiveness of the U.S. -flag shipping industry, it is critical for Congress to act to 
ensure future competitiveness. 


Chairman Archer. The Chair is gratefui to each of you because 
you are the epitome of what we are trying to focus on today, i am, 
as i mentioned in my preiiminary remarks, extremeiy concerned 
about what our Tax Code does to reduce our competitiveness in the 
giobai marketpiace, which is going to be absoiuteiy vitai to every 
working American in the next century, perhaps one of the most 
vitai things facing the future of every working American in the 
next century. Particuiariy as we iook at the extra burden on work- 
ers as a resuit of the demographic changes that are iooming with 
the baby-boomer retirement and two workers for every retiree in- 
stead of three. We are going to have to increase productivity. We 
are going to have to increase savings. We are going to have to in- 
crease competitiveness in the giobai marketpiace. 

Frankiy, i do not think we can stop in simpiy improving competi- 
tiveness. i think we need to give you, each of you, an advantage, 
i happened to be strongiy enough American to where i do not think 
a ievei piayingfieid is what we shouid shoot for. i think we shouid 
shoot for giving you an advantage to overcome and repiace the dis- 



36 


advantage that you have all spoken to that we have under the cur- 
rent law. Now whether we can achieve it ultimately is going to be 
a very, very long, difficult journey. In the meantime, we need to 
think about how we can immediately improve the current law, at 
least to some degree that will significantly help you in the near- 
term. 

I was very interested, Mr. Loffredo, in your comments because 
what we are seeing, it seems to me, is the advent of a new chem- 
istry that is beginning to develop in the world and that is the 
merger of larger corporations across country boundaries. That 
again is part of what we have got to expect more and more of in 
an inter-related world marketplace. Your company, Chrysler, has 
merged with Daimler, and I notice that it is not ChryslerDaimler, 
it is DaimlerChrysler. I wonder if our Tax Code were changed 
whether it would perhaps not be ChryslerDaimler or if perhaps the 
headquarters, the home office, the controlling corporation would be 
U.S. instead of German. Can you tell us what role, what impact the 
different Tax Codes had on the ultimate decision of the boards of 
directors in determining whether the resulting corporation would 
be German or whether it would be U.S.? 

Mr. Loffredo. Taxes were one of several issues that determined 
the location and corporation— the country of incorporation. The 
point that should be made is the fact the United States never had 
a chance. There is no major foreign operation that would volun- 
tarily submit itself to the U.S. international tax system. The way 
the structure is now, whether taxes was a controlling factor or just 
one of many, we never had the opportunity to broach the question 
because the tax system kept us from having any arguments to say 
it should be a U.S. company. So, basically, I can't tell you taxes 
was the reason. There were a lot of legal reasons, a lot of political 
reasons in Germany. But I can tell you the U.S. tax system did not 
give me any weapons to fight to maxe it a U .S. company. 

Chairman Archer. What sort of advice did the boards of direc- 
tors receive from their tax experts on both sides of the Atlantic rel- 
ative to what the resulting corporation should be? 

Mr. Loffredo. Once it was determined that the U.S. laws were 
not the proper place from a tax standpoint, and this means a lot 
because one of the major disadvantages of not being a U.S. com- 
pany is that you are not treated the same way on the New York 
Stock Exchange and Standard & Poors. So you don't take such a 
decision lightly here. By giving up the U.S. corporate format, we 
were taken out of the Standard & Poors 500 and our stock suffered 
greatly. 

But there were many reasons, there were legal, there were polit- 
ical, there were tax. But after we got through the point as to 
whether or not that we knew we could not be a U.S. company, we 
looked around Europe or the rest of the world as to what type of 
company we should be. We looked to The Netherlands and we 
looked to some of the tax havens. And then the German tax laws 
came in strongly to support the fact that it should be a German 
company because if you look at the German tax laws, even though 
they at that time th^ probably had an effective tax rate of 52 per- 
cent, which is significantly higher than ours, 45 of that being a 
Federal tax rate, when a German company pays a dividend to a 



37 


German shareholder, they receive 15 percent of those 45 percent 
points back. And then the integrated tax system in Germany comes 
to play. So, in effect, a German company is not a taxpayer when 
it has a German shareholder because the shareholder would get 
the credit for the corporate tax. So the integrated system favored 
a German company. 

And, as you can see over the past year or so since the merger, 
we started out with 44 percent U.S. shareholders and we are down 
to around 25 percent shareholders. The attractiveness of this in- 
vestment in Europe is growing. I can't say taxes was the major de- 
cisionmaker, but definitely I had no arguments from a U.S. stand- 
point to fight for it. 

Chairman Archer. Well, you testified that by becoming a Ger- 
man company, your corporation was able to save 23.5 percent. 

Mr. Loffredo. That is an example of— if we were comparing 
being a U.S. parent company and a German company on dividends 
coming into the parent. If the dividends came from Germany to the 
United States 

Chairman Archer. Sure. 

Mr. Loffredo [continuing]. We would be unable to use the cred- 
its, our rate would have been significantly higher. Going into Ger- 
many, we know that the tax on U.S. dividends will be about 40, 
41 percent. But, again, in any decision you make in business, taxes 
is just one of many that you do. It is not the controlling decision. 

Chairman Archer. Well, certainly, that would be the case. You 
examine government regulation, you examine all types of things, 
but so many of the other things, we do not have much opportunity 
to change. 

Mr. Loffredo. Right. No, I agree. 

Chairman Archer. If the United States had no income tax and 
derived all of its revenue from a border adjustable consumption 
tax, would you have been able to make a strong recommendation 
to the board that they should emerge as a U.S. corporation? 

Mr. Loffredo. I think my position would have been greatly en- 
hanced because then I would nave had the argument that any divi- 
dends coming into the United States would have been free of tax 
because we would have basically then been a similar territorial sys- 
tem like the German system is now. Plus, as you know, I have 
spent a lot of time over the last 15 years looking at border adjust- 
able type taxes and with the advent— well, with the sale of close 
to 2 million Chrysler vehicles in the United States, Chrysler j eeps 
and Dodges and Plymouths, and the sale of 200,000 Mercedes Benz 
in the United States, a third of those coming now from Alabama, 

I think it would have given me a strong argument for the United 
States being the seat of the corporation. Whether that would have 
changed the minds of the Daimler people, I can't say. 

Chairman Archer. Well, I understand that you are to some de- 
gree limited in your position with the corporation today in what 
you can say publicly before the Committee, and I do appreciate 
what testimony you have given to us. Let me simply say to all of 
you that Princeton Economics did a survey of major foreign cor- 
porations in Europe and j apan and asked them this question: If 
the United States abolished its income tax and raised its revenue 
in the form of a sales tax, what impact would that have on your 



38 


decisions? The responses were that 80 percent said thw would 
build their new factories in the United States and export from the 
United States. Twenty percent said they would move their inter- 
national headquarters to the United States. 

What we are seeing in reverse, as a result of our Tax Code, is 
DaimlerChrysler headquartered in Germany. I am not opposed to 
all of this inter-relationship, but in the long-term, it is certainly 
going to push ideas, concepts, purchases and the operation of the 
company more toward a consideration of the Germans than the 
United States. We have seen that happen with Bankers Trust, 
which is now Deutsche Bank of Germany because of our Tax Code. 
We have seen it happen with Amoco and now with Arco, which are 
now British corporations. If our Tax Code were different, there is 
no doubt in my mind that all of them would be U.S. corporations. 
Even though it is not the total factor in decisions, it is a massive 
factor in decisions. 

So I am delighted to hear the testimony from you today that con- 
veys to this Committee the need to do something about the way 
that we prejudicially tax foreign source income and to get American 
moving again, not just to compete but to win the battle of the glob- 
al marketplace in the next century. 

So I thank you very much. I am sure other members would like 
to inquire. 

Mr. McCrery. 

Mr. McCrery. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. You spoke about com- 
petitiveness and there is one item that was brought up by this 
panel that to me just sticks out, not in the Tax Code but in our 
duty structure, as being uncompetitive or putting our American 
ocean carriers in a very uncompetitive position and that is the duty 
on foreign r^airs. This Committee repealed that duty 2 years ago 
only to lose it in conference because of some other considerations. 

But, Mr. Finnerty, so that the Members of this Committee will 
fully understand what happens, let me just describe a situation 
and you tell me if this is correct. If there is an American vessel 
leaving port in the United States carrying goods for export and it 
sails across the Atlantic, goes over to Europe, dumps its goods— not 
dumps, puts its goods into port for export, and then it has a me- 
chanical problem, something goes wrong with the ship. And you got 
to have it fixed at a repair facility in Europe. Tell us what happens 
duty-wise when you have to make that repair overseas? 

Mr. Finnerty. Mr. McCrery, the law provides that after we pay 
the bill overseas, whether it be in Asia or Europe, when we call at 
the first port in the United States with that U.S.-flag vessel, we 
then owe the U.S. Government 50 percent of that bill. This does 
not apply to the foreign-flag vessels that we operate. And it does 
not apply to the foreign-flag vessels that are operated by all of our 
other competitors overseas. It only applies to U.S.-flag ships. 

Mr. McCrery. So that repair costs you 50 percent more than it 
otherwise would because of the duty imposed by the U.S. Govern- 
ment? 

Mr. Finnerty. That is correct. 

Mr. McCrery. Mr. Chairman, that, to me, is one of the more ri- 
diculous provisions of our law that I have ever heard. And I hope 
this Committee once again will repeal that. But in lieu of repeal- 



39 


ing, the American-flag vessels have come up with an innovative 
way to turn that duty to the advantage of American shipyards. 
They are willing to allow that duty to continue to be imposed if 
they have the option of putting that 50 percent duty, rather than 
into the Treasury, into something that is already set up, the Cap- 
ital Construction Fund, which would enable them to use that 
money at some point to build new ships in American shipyards. So 
it kind of creates at least a partial win-win for the industry. They 
still have to pay the 50 percent penalty, but at least the money 
would go into a ship construction fund that would have to be spent 
at shipyards here in the United States. 

So, Mr. Chairman, I hope this Committee will give consideration 
to that approach if we do not just repeal that duty altogether. 

Thank you. 

Chairman Archer. Does any other member have any questions? 
Mr. Rangel? 

Mr. Rangel. Thank you. Mr. Loffredo, you had indicated that tax 
liability was one of the major factors in determining where you 
would have your headquarters, but the chairman was suggesting 
the abolishment of the entire Tax Code and substituting it with a 
national sales tax. What impact would that have had on the deci- 
sion that your company made? 

Mr. Loffredo. It would have at least given me the opportunity 
to present the case that a U.S. quarters should be— or a U.S. cor- 
poration should be the parent of the Daimler Group because one 
of the concerns of double taxation in the United States would have 
gone away, and we would be certain that the only tax we would 
pay would be on the products sold in the United States. And so at 
least I would have had an argument to go forward. Under the cur- 
rent system, I had no way— I mean as a tax director, it was very 
good to be able to give advice saying, "Don't be a U.S. company." 
But as an American, that was very difficult advice to give our man- 
agement that you don't want to end up being an American com- 
pany. All kinds of companies are trying to flip out of the United 
States, and we have an opportunity to do it. And so from a tax 
standpoint, this advice is being given everyday. But it shouldn't be 
the advice that a U.S. citizen should give. 

Mr. Rangel. But tax relief or simplification or abolishment of the 
double taxation, any of these things could have provided you with 
a more favorable tax climate in the United States. The chairman 
read parts of a report from Princeton, which sounds so exciting. It 
suggests that if we just "abolished the Tax Code as we know it," 
then you wouldn't have any decision to make. You would just 
bounce your firm right over here. 

Mr. Loffredo. As you know, our partner was Daimler Benz, 
which is the largest manufacturer in Germany. So political deci- 
sions could have outweighed any tax decisions as to where the loca- 
tion of that facility would be. I can say from a tax standpoint, I 
could defend a U.S. corporation very well and probably from an in- 
vestment standpoint because it would have been still in the Stand- 
ard & Poors and still a normal stock on the New York Stock Ex- 
change. But the political aspects of that, as you know are some- 
times beyond my control. 



40 


Mr. Rangel. What you are saying is that if we make it more fa- 
vorable, it's a factor and 

Mr. Loffredo. Right. 

Mr. Rangel. And you have to weigh everything. Then you make 
a decision. But you certainly are not prepared to say that if we 
abolished the Tax Code you would be here. 

How about the rest of you in terms of this approach that the 
chairman has suggested just wipe the Tax Code out, pull it up by 
the roots, start all over, go into a universal sales tax system, and 
get all you guys back here in the United States? Is there anyone 
who believes that this would really bring you all back home where 
you belong? Do you think it would be a tremendous advantage to 
be able to say that you are a U.S. firm, you are tax-free, you will 
be more productive, and if it is possible, you will help the economy 
improve to an even higher standard than the President's gotten it? 
You don't seem as nearly as excited about this as my chairman. 
How about you, Mr. Finnerty? 

Mr. Finnerty. Well, Mr. Rangel, I will defer to my colleagues on 
the specifics, but I can tell you of what I know of that proposal, 
it would have a very dramatic and beneficial impact on the U.S. 
economy. My own company does business primarily outside the 
United States with our ships, so it would not have as immediate 
an impact on us. But in terms of our customers that would be pro- 
ducing the exports from the United States, it would be a very pow- 
erful engine. 

Mr. Rangel. Let me ask this before the red light goes on. We 
know that taxes play an important role in deciding where you are 
going to set up your headquarters. What about the competency of 
your staff and the education of our workers and the transfer of 
technology? Do you find that United States workers are competitive 
with workers in other parts of the country with regards to your 
company needs? Are we in pretty good shape? 

Mr. Loffredo. I would just make a point. Whether you are a 
U.S. company or a German company, it really doesn't dictate where 
you have to set up your physical location for your headquarters. At 
the current time, we have two headquarters within the 
DaimlerChrysler Group. We have a headquarters in Auburn Hills 
and we have a headquarters in Stuttgart. And it doesn't mean that 
eventually we may not have a headquarters in London or in New 
York to really be more of a holding company. So the country of in- 
corporation doesn't have to dictate where you put your head- 
quarters. 

Mr. Rangel. No, I am asking though whether the sophistication 
or the training of the employees, would that not be a factor too as 
to where you would place yourselves? 

Mr. Loffredo. But it may not be a factor as to what country of 
incorporation you are in. It just may be where you have your of- 
fices. 

Mr. Green. I can tell you in the emerging global energy industry 
that with the American workers and the skill of knowledge that we 
have in this country is unquestionably in the top-tier around the 
world. And that is really where we are coming from and having 
that capability to transfer that knowledge andf skills. And I say 
knowledge and skills because we are an industry that cannot ex- 



41 


port jobs. We have to have a taxable presence with the other cus- 
tomers. So it is teaching that knowledge and that skill that we 
have learned in this country around the world. And to have that 
opportunity is what we are after. This has only been going on since 
about 1987. So it is a new situation in the global energy industry. 
And what we are talking about is foreign companies owning energy 
infrastructures, the very key driver to economies around the world. 
And for Americans to have the chance to be a part of that vital 
piece of other economies is very important. At the same time, we 
want to be able to protect our own economy and who owns our en- 
ergy infrastructure here. So it is a very serious, important situation 
for us. 

Mr. Rangel. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Archer. Does any other Member have questions? 

Mr. Levin. 

Mr. Levin. J ust briefly, a couple of comments. Mr. Chairman, I 
think the discussion about the impact of our tax system on our 
competitiveness needs to be undertaken seriously and openly and 
with open-mindedness. I hope we will bring the same spirit when 
we talk about trade legislation and be willing to look at new ideas 
and also have the same sensitivity to the impact on U.S.— on 
American productiveness and production. 

I take it the answer on the sales tax would be affected to some 
extent by the amount of the sales tax. I would think that my friend 
from Chrysler would be the first to acknowledge that that has some 
impact. 

Let me just say, Mr. Chairman, it is important that we talk 
about the basic system, and I think you will agree, we also need 
to continue to focus on changes that we might make in the present 
system. For example, the discussion of active finance income. I 
hope we will continue to think about that because that is one item 
that has some cost to it in our bill. And unless there is substantial 
support for it, it isn't likely to be continued on a long-term basis. 

I also want to join with M r. McCrery in urging we do take a look 
at 2159 to try to solve that dilemma. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Archer. Thank you, Mr. Levin. The Chair recognizes 
Mr. Weller and then Mr. McDermott. 

Mr. Weller. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. And I would like to di- 
rect my question to Ms. Stiles of Caterpillar. And, of course, in my 
conversations with your company, you employ almost 8,000 work- 
ers in the district that I represent in the south suburbs and rural 
areas that I represent. And you folks make a lot of these. And this 
is a fraction of the size of the actual equipment that is produced. 
But very clearly. Caterpillar has always indicated how important 
global trade is in our conversations. And I just wonder can you tell 
me what percent of the product you produce is sold overseas today? 

Ms. Stiles. I believe we are at 49 percent of our sales are over- 
seas. 

Mr. Weller. And that area, is it growing? 

Ms. Stiles. It has grown in the past years. I think we are actu- 
ally down a percent maybe last year from 50 percent. 

Mr. Weller. Is your chief competitor a U.S. company? 



42 


Ms. Stiles. We do not regard our chief competitor as a U.S. com- 
pany. i wouid say more that it is a J apanese Co., Kamutzu, wouid 
be i beiieve one of— it is spread a bit between J apanese, Korean, 
and, of course, we do have competitors in the United States. But 
especiaiiy on that iarge equipment, iike you have sitting there, it 
wouid not be a U.S. company, no. 

Mr. Weller. You mention that the deferrai for finance, active fi- 
nance income heips you provide a more ievei piayingfieid when you 
are competing with the J apanese and the Koreans and the others 
in the giobai market. Can you eiaborate on why this is the case? 
Why that deferrai for active finance income heips put you on a 
more ievei piayingfieid? 

Ms. Stiles. Certainiy. As i discussed eariier, given the average 
price of Caterpiiiar equipment, the majority of our saies are very 
cioseiy tied to the abiiity to provide an attractive financing package 
to our customers. We have found at Caterpiiiar, we maintain a 
very dose reiationship with our customers, not oniy for the ma- 
chine and the servicing and saie of the machine but aiso for the 
financing. 

in order to do this in internationai settings, we have to compete 
with our foreign competitors based on the iocai tax iaw because 
most of our foreign competitors wiii not be subject to an additionai 
incrementai tax in their home country. Now when we absorb those 
costs, which we must if we are going to offer the same type of fi- 
nancing packages that they do, over the course of biiiions and bii- 
iions of saies transactions, this becomes a very significant cost for 
Caterpiiiar. if, on the other hand, we find that we simpiy cannot 
offer the same type of package, due to the incrementai tax costs 
facing our companies, we risk not oniy iosing the finance trans- 
action, but we risk iosing the saie of the equipment, which is basi- 
caiiy the reason we have a finance company is to seii CAT equip- 
ment. 

Mr. Weller. So the ioss of your abiiity to offer finance income 
wouid severeiy hamper your abiiity to compete with the foreign 
competition? 

Ms. Stiles. That is correct. 

Mr. Weller. The iast two hearings on internationai simpiifica- 
tion, inciuding the one this past week, they have disciosed there 
are major probiems with the United States treatment of foreign tax 
credits. And i was wondering what you wouid recommend to rem- 
edy this probiem? 

Ms. Stiles. Wdi, there are severai things, two of which we 
wouid recommend highiy are inciuded in the current iegisiation, 
the extension of the carry-forward period for foreign tax credits and 
the acceieration of the provisions reiated to the 902 non-controiied 
foreign corporations. But in addition to that, there are severai 
pi aces where it is noted we need a study of aiiocation of interest 
expense and apportionment. 

i wouid go a iittie further than that in that i don't know of a 
company that the interest expense apportionment ruies are not 
having a very detrimentai effect on them for a variety of different 
reasons, in our case, we have a U.S. -captive finandai company. 
And because of the interest expense that is incurred by that com- 
pany, we feei we are unfairiy penaiized with that expense because 



43 


a very large portion of that is apportioned to foreign assets under 
the current rules. This expense is incurred solely to fund U.S. 
transactions. It should be consolidated within that financial com- 
pany. 

Also, the basket rules have become so complex that they are not 
only costly procedures but error prone. We have to devote an entire 
staff of people for 8 to 10 weeks to calculate one number on our 
tax return, the foreign tax credit limitation. 

And while I am on the simplification, the use of U.S. gap earn- 
ings and profits, I think would go very far in the eyes of most com- 
panies to simplifying this process, and I believe making it a more 
accurate process than what we have now. 

Mr. Weller. OK, thank you. I see my time has expired. Thank 
you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Archer. The Chair recognizes M r. McDermott. 

Mr. McDermott. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. As one of the non- 
tax lawyers on this Committee, I have a question. Mr. Loffredo, you 
talk about the Germans are territorial. Are they talking Germany 
or they talking the common market? 

Mr. Loffredo. No, worldwide. Prior to this recent law change, 
any dividends received by a German company from a foreign sub- 
sidiary would not have been taxed in Germany. It is not only the 
common market. 

Mr. McDermott. It is the whole world? 

Mr. Loffredo. Our dividends from the United States to them 
would have also gone in tax free. 

Mr. McDermott. And explain to me, just trying to understand 
historically why this happened, why are we in the position that we 
are that makes an American company say, "Gee, we would be bet- 
ter to be registered in Germany." Explain what are the— how did 
that happen? 

Mr. Loffredo. I think it began, as the chairman started the 
hearings with in 1962, with the beginning of Subpart F and the 
evolution of that over the last 35 or 37 years making it more and 
more difficult for U.S. companies to utilize their foreign tax credits. 
And once you make it more difficult to utilize foreign tax credits, 
which are taxes paid by our foreign subsidiaries, you are then sub- 
jecting to yourself to a double taxation in the United States when 
you bring the funds home. 

Mr. McDermott. But in other words, the Congress kind of used 
a sledge hammer to deal with the Cayman Islands, or wherever the 
tax havens were, and they hit the rest of you? 

Mr. Loffredo. Right, the abuses were out there and there were 
definitely abuses out there. But when they went after the abuses, 
they brought in the normal business transactions also. 

Mr. McDermott. Do you think it is possible to divide the baby 
here and deal with legitimate foreign operations and the kind of 
tax haven operations of the Caymans? 

Mr. Loffredo. I question whether whatever law comes up, I 
think someone would be able to find a way around it. 

Mr. McDermott. Guys as smart as you could find a way around 
it, right? 

Mr. Loffredo. Yes, a decision has to be made whether or not 
you are going to maybe set a rule, you are going to tax all foreign 



44 


income at 35 percent. If you proved you paid it someplace else, 
then you don't pay any more into the United States. If you didn't 
pay it someplace else, then you pay it to the United States. I mean 
something that arbitrary may have to be the only way to do it. But 
any rule you try to create will just create a 1,000 tax lawyers get- 
ting around it. 

Mr. McDermott. In other words, trying to devise a rule that de- 
fines a paper corporation? 

Mr. Loffredo. Right. 

Mr. McDermott. Is pretty difficult? 

Mr. Loffredo. Pretty difficult. 

Mr. McDermott. I have a second question for Mr. Finnerty. My 
understanding that your taxation, when you say when you tie up 
in an American port, you have to pay 50 percent of the cost of the 
repair. That is a trade law. That is not an income tax law, is that 
correct? 

Mr. Finnerty. It is a customs duty, Mr. McDermott. It is not an 
income tax, it is a customs duty. 

Mr. McDermott. So the chairman's idea of taking out the in- 
come tax, that really wouldn't do anything for what you are talking 
about because you are not taxed? 

Mr. Finnerty. No, not on that particular piece. But the balance 
of my discussion about the Capital Construction Fund, which is a 
tax deferral account, does relate to income. 

Mr. McDermott. OK, thank you. The other question I have for 
the panel really is a question of what you are saying here today 
is the tax laws are slanted the wrong way and we want to slant 
them the other way. There must be some reason why your compa- 
nies stay here or don't— for instance. Caterpillar, why don't you go 
find some small equipment manufacturer somewhere overseas and 
do what DaimlerChrysler did? Why don't you do that? What makes 
you stay here? 

Ms. Stiles. Well, in the first place, for Caterpillar to move would 
be a very expensive proposition. Our plants are not easily move- 
able. We have to sink three stories into the ground just to lift our 
equipment, and we have a manufacturing base right now whereby 
70 percent of our assets are in the United States. We would like 
to keep it that way. 

Mr. McDermott. But that is true for Chrysler, too? They did 
that. They didn't move any of their plants. They just simply moved 
the headquarters people and the tax people and changed the line 
on the door that said a German company? 

Mr. Loffredo. There is a rule in the tax law currently that says 
if you basically flip out to a foreign jurisdiction and re-incorporate, 
unless you meet certain tests, which we met in our merger, your 
shareholders are subject to tax on the gain. So there is some con- 
trol on becoming a non-U. S. company currently in the tax law. If 
Chrysler were larger than Daimler, we would have had the poten- 
tial of a U.S. tax problem if we became a German company. But 
in our tax situation, Daimler was larger than Chrysler. 

Mr. McDermott. So Caterpillar's real problem is that they are 
too big? 

Mr. Loffredo. Right. 



45 


Mr. McDermott. They can't find anybody bigger than them to 
join with? 

Mr. Loffredo. But one of the things I have noticed is you can 
start doing a pyramid scheme because we have come from $60 bil- 
lion, well, let's say they were $80 billion when they acquired us, 
and we were $60. And now we are maybe $140 billion company. 
And now we can look at a Caterpillar where you could almost pyr- 
amid your way out. 

Mr. McDermott. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I don't think I un- 
derstand everything yet. 

Chairman Archer. Does any other member wish to inquire? The 
Chair would like to comment briefly to your inquiry, Mr. 
McDermott. If we went to the simplified 35 percent of foreign 
source income tax, you would still have to define foreign source in- 
come. You can not avoid that. You can not simplify it because you 
are inevitably coming back and having to change what is and what 
is not income and no two economists agree on what is or is not in- 
come. That is the problem. Your testimony today for the most part, 
if we could get this change in the Code, we would not be at this 
great disadvantage. Then you start to examine how you make these 
changes and it is the most complex part of the Tax Code that we 
have. 

I would like to ask each one of you what disadvantages are 
present in deciding between remaining a U.S. corporation com- 
pared to being a foreign corporation other than the Tax Code? 

Mr. Green. I will speak for the utility industry. That really is 
the primary disadvantage, quite frankly. Here we have the energy 
system that is the envy of the world, the skill and knowledge and 
the workers, and what we are seeing is the globalization of an in- 
dustry that has only been going on for 10 or 12 years. So really get- 
ting Americans competitive in this industry is to preempt the event 
that we simply can't be competitive. 

Chairman Archer. Does any one want to cite other aspects of 
being in the United States where you are at a disadvantage other 
than the Tax Code? 

Mr. Loffredo. May I just— two things I have noticed is that first 
of all, the reaction to Wall Street has been negative, the fact that 
we are not a U.S. company any longer, which is really critical in 
a lot of respects. Second, from a personal standpoint, the morale of 
U.S. employees I think has been a negative. 

Chairman Archer. You think there is higher morale of employ- 
ees in other countries than there is in the United States? 

Mr. Loffredo. No, I think there was higher morale at Chrysler 
when we were a U.S. company. 

Chairman Archer. OK. So you have not cited any other inherent 
disadvantage to being in the United States other than the Tax 
Code? 

Mr. Loffredo. And Wall Street. 

Chairman Archer. And Wall Street. Let me make sure I under- 
stand this. In other words, U.S. corporations are at a disadvantage 
to foreign corporations because of Wall Street? 

Mr. Loffredo. No, no, I'm sorry. Tax Code, but a disadvantage 
of being a foreign corporation is that you are no longer allowed cer- 
tain rights on Wall Street. 



46 


Chairman Archer. OK. So that is an advantage to being in the 
U.S.? 

Mr. Loffredo. Yes. 

Chairman Archer. OK. I am asking you to cite any other dis- 
advantage to being in the U.S. other than the Tax Code? The rea- 
son I do that is because of the inference in other questions that the 
Tax Code is only a small factor and all these other factors are 
things that have to be considered. If the Tax Code is the only nega- 
tive factor in being a U.S. corporation, then clearly it is of major 
significance because all of these decisions are made at the margin. 
We could not see, for example, up until the last five to 10 years, 
what is happening now with DaimlerChrysler, Banker's Trust, 
Deutsche, Case, foreign corporation, Amoco, Arco, foreign corpora- 
tions taking over. This is a new phenomenon in an inter-related 
world marketplace. It is clear that it is driven by the Tax Code. It 
is clear that it will continue into the next century when the condi- 
tions are at the margin where the Tax Code will make that deter- 
mination. 

That is not in the best interest of the United States of America. 
God help us if we do not do something about this. It is the single 
biggest thing we can do to help in this regard unless you think of 
something else, it is a disadvantage in the United States where we 
ought to help on that. 

Mr. Watkins. Mr. Chairman? 

Chairman Archer. 

Mr. Watkins. 

Mr. Watkins. I think the point is well-taken that you are mak- 
ing. And I think we are, in all respect, we are dealing with tax in- 
dividuals here and I would like them to broaden their thinking just 
a little because you are right on the tax policy. And one of the rea- 
sons why I came back to Congress was we ne^ to have a 21st cen- 
tury globally competitive economy in the United States allowing us 
to be competitive around the world. I n all respects, tax policy is on 
your mind. That is a major problem, and we have got to address 
that. 

But there are three areas that I have studied, and tax policy, 
yes. Second, regulatory. And I guarantee you talk to other people 
in your company and the regulator policies are affecting big time. 
Third, litigation, product liability, other things we put right here 
in this country. Those are some of the things that also have to be 
addressed if we are going to be competitive companies around the 
world. But tax policy I know is the issue right today. But I think 
we need to talk to other people in our corporations because those 
two things are putting an overburden of about 15 percent on a lot 
of our products. 

Chairman Archer. Thank you very much for testifying today, 
and I hope that all of you realize that I am not coming down on 
any of you in my enthusiasm for trying to do something to help you 
to be more competitive in the world marketplace in the next cen- 
tury. If we do not change the Tax Code, we are driving jobs out of 
this country. We are reducing our capability to compete. We are re- 
ducing our ability to export. We are undermining the ability of 
workers in this country to earn more in the next century. Those are 
major items I think we need to attend to. 



47 


I do want to ask one specific question, relative to interest alloca- 
tion, which has come up a couple of times. Would the Senate 86 
proposal basically remedy this problem if we were to adopt it in the 
tax bill this year? 

Mr. Green. That wouldn't take care of our problems. I think that 
that is a very good bill, and we need to work with that. But there 
are two issues with that, one the 80 percent ownership require- 
ment. I n the energy industry and the privatization going on around 
the world, many times the privatization is less than 50 percent. So 
we would fall out of that qualification. The second piece of it that 
we would like to work with them on deals with changing the meas- 
uring of the assets to a fair market value or a tax book value. That, 
again, becomes misleading for a utility that has depreciated long- 
lived assets and really exacerbates the problem we have with the 
interest allocation formula. But on the whole, it is a bill that we 
think is a good one, and we would like to work with it to see if we 
can get our solution inside that. 

Chairman Archer. Do you think from your expert counsel on 
this very complicated issue, that we can improve the Senate 86 ap- 
proach without losing significant additional revenue, which may 
make it prohi biti ve i n the Tax Code? 

Mr. Green. That certainly is our intent, understanding that we 
are very sensitive to that revenue estimate. At the same time, I 
would also like to encourage looking at this at a phased-in ap- 
proach perhaps, to maybe spread that a little bit more and at least 
start the action to change in this area. 

Chairman Archer. Well, we most definitely will need to do that. 
Whatever tax relief bill that we propose will have very little rev- 
enue to use in the first couple of years. So whatever we establish 
as tax policy for the future, all of it is will be phased in with a few 
exceptions. Then expanded as the wedge grows out. That is a ge- 
neric format that we will need to follow. 

Again, thank you very much. We appreciate your testimony. You 
are excused, and we will get ready to hear our next panel. 

The Chair announces that, at the conclusion of the next panel, 
we will recess today for lunch. I hope we can do that no later than 
12:15 and come back at 1. 

Gentlemen, welcome. We are ready to hear your testimony. Dr. 
Hubbard, if you would lead off, we would appreciate it. Again, if 
you will keep your oral testimony to within 5 minutes, we would 
appreciate it. Your entire written statement will be printed in the 
record. Identify yourself before you proceed. 

STATEMENT OF R. GLENN HUBBARD, PH.D., RUSSELL L. 

CARSON PROFESSOR OF ECONOMICS AND FINANCE, GRAD- 
UATE SCHOOL OF BUSINESS, COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY, NEW 

YORK, NEW YORK, AND RESEARCH DIRECTOR, INTER- 
NATIONAL TAX POLICY FORUM 

Mr. Hubbard. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, Mr. Rangel, Members 
of the Committee. I am Glenn Hubbard, a professor of economics 
at Columbia and research director of the International Tax Policy 
Forum. The Forum is a diverse group of U.S.-based multinationals 
that sponsors economic research and policy education about inter- 
national tax policy. 



48 


Racing against the red light, I only want to make three points 
and focus on the last two of those. First, U.S. multinationals make 
quite significant contributions to the U.S. economy. Second, fol- 
lowing up on the points raised by the last panel, tax policy matters 
a lot for a range of investment decisions of multinationals. And, 
third, the current anti-competitive U.S. tax policy toward multi- 
nationals can lead to runaway headquarters with significant poten- 
tial losses in national well-being. 

I will not dwell on the role that U.S. multinationals play in our 
economy. It is in my written testimony, and I am sure other mem- 
bers of the panel will emphasize it. But I think it is important to 
note that the United States has a significant interest in ensuring 
that its tax rules do not hinder the competitiveness of U.S. multi- 
nationals. 

Tax policy matters a lot. Unfortunately, the discussion here often 
centers on an academic debate between economic efficiency and 
competitiveness. On the one hand, the United States has tradition- 
ally advocated so-called capital export neutrality, which is a long 
economic-sounding phrase simply stating that a resident should 
pay the same rate of tax whether an investment is made at home 
or abroad. This sounds simple. The idea is not to bias the location 
of investment, and the hope is to promote worldwide economic effi- 
ciency. 

From a competitiveness perspective, on the other hand, the 
United States has actually become one of the least attractive coun- 
tries in which to locate the headquarters of a multinational. This 
reflects restrictions on the use of foreign tax credits, strong anti- 
deferral rules, and the lack of integration of the corporate indi- 
vidual income tax systems. 

Why should we care? U.S. companies can compete successfully 
against foreign firms only if they are adequately efficient to over- 
come this artificially imposed tax disadvantage. 

More important, this academic debate about efficiency versus 
competitiveness is actually based on a false choice. First, the 
United States has not, and probably will not, follow the capital ex- 
port neutrality doctrine that it espouses. Implementation of capital 
export neutrality requires not just eliminating deferral, which is 
often talked about before you, but the granting of an unlimited for- 
eign tax credit. Moreover, worldwide efficiency, economists' holy 
grail, emerges only if all countries simultaneously embrace the doc- 
trine, a rather unlikely outcome. It is an old lesson in economics 
that going only part of a way toward an efficient outcome seldom 
makes us better off. 

Second, the models used to support the conclusion of capital ex- 
port neutrality abstract from many important features of the real 
world, including imperfect competition. Economists who study mul- 
tinationals outside of the tax area stress those features as abso- 
lutely critical for understanding multinationals. 

In a recent paper, Michael Devereux and I find that using real- 
istic assumptions about strategic competition, deferral of U.S. tax- 
ation on foreign-source income can actually increase the well-being 
of U.S. residents. 

What are the bottom lines of U.S. multinationals? A continuation 
of the current emphasis of U.S. tax policy could lead to a decline 



49 


in the share of multinational income earned by companies 
headquartered here. It is not just academic. We have been hearing 
it all morning. In several recent high-profile mergers among United 
States and European multinationals, including BP-Amoco, Daimler- 
Chrysler, and Deutsche Bank Bankers' Trust, a merged entity is 
chosen to be a foreign headquartered company. 

More important, looking down the road, future investments made 
by these companies outside the United States are not likely to be 
made through U.S. subsidiaries since tax on those operations could 
be removed from the U.S. corporate tax system by simply making 
them through the foreign parent. To be blunt, while some have 
suggested that reductions in the U.S. tax on foreign-source income 
could lead to the movement of manufacturing operations outside 
the U.S., so-called runaway plants, the far more likely scenario for 
you to consider is that a non-competitive U.S. tax system might 
lead to runaway headquarters, an increase in the foreign control of 
U.S. assets. Bottom line: U.S. tax rules can significantly alter the 
ability of U.S. multinationals to compete successfully around the 
woricl and ultimately at home. 

On behalf of the I nternational Tax Policy Forum, I urge you, Mr. 
Chairman and Members of the Committee, to review carefully the 
U.S. international tax system in order to root out the major impedi- 
ments limiting U.S. multinationals' ability to compete globally with 
foreign-based multinationals. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of R. Glenn Hubbard, Ph.D., Russell L. Carson Professor of Eco- 
nomics and Finance, Graduate School of Business, Columbia University, 
New York, New York, and Research Director, International Tax Policy 
Forum 


I . I NTRODUCTION 

I am R. Glenn Hubbard, Russell L. Carson, Professor of Economics and Finance, 
Graduate School of Business, Columbia University. 1 am testifying today on behalf 
of the International Tax Policy Forum, of which I am the research director. Founded 
In 1992, the International Tax Policy Forum Is a diverse group of U.S. -based multi- 
nationals, Including manufacturing, service, energy, financial service, and tech- 
nology companies. The Forum sponsors research and education regarding the U.S. 
taxation of Income from cross-border Investments. As a matter of policy, the Forum 
refrains from taking positions on legislative proposals. J ohn M . Samuels, Vice Presi- 
dent and Senior Counsel for Tax Policy and Planning of General Electric, Is chair- 
man of the Forum. PrIcewaterhouseCoopers LLP acts as consultant to the Forum. 
A list of member companies Is attached as Appendix A of this testimony. 

The Forum welcomes the opportunity to testify today on the effect of U.S. tax 
rules on the International competitiveness of U.S. companies. Increasingly, the mar- 
kets for our companies have become global, and our competitors are foreign-based 
companies operating under tax rules that are often much more favorable than our 
own. 

The existing U.S. tax law governing the activities of multinational companies has 
been developed in a patchwork fashion over many years. In many instances, current 
law creates barriers that harm the competitiveness of U.S. companies. These rules 
also are horribly complex both for U.S. multinational companies to comply with and 
for the Internal Revenue Service to administer. That is why the Forum believes it 
is important for this Committee to review the current U.S. international tax rules 
with a view to reducing complexity and removing impediments to U.S. international 
competitiveness. 

II . The Role of U.S. Multinational Corporations in the U.S. Economy 

The primary motivation for U.S. multinationals to operate abroad is to compete 
better in foreign markets, not domestic markets. Investment abroad is required to 
provide services that cannot be exported, to obtain access to natural resources, and 



50 


to provide goods that are costly to export due to transportation costs, tariffs, and 
local content requirements. More than one-half of all foreign affiliates of U.S. multi- 
nationals are in the service sector, including distribution, marketing, and servicing 
U.S. exports.! Foreign investment allows U.S. multinationals to compete more effec- 
tively around the world, ultimately increasing employment and wages of U.S. work- 
ers. 

A. Exports 

Much research has shown that U.S. operations abroad produce a net trade surplus 
for the United States. Foreign affiliates of U.S. companies rely heavily on exports 
from the United States. Foreign affiliates of U.S. multinationals purchased just 
under $200 billion of merchandise exports from the United States in 1996. Addi- 
tional exports by U.S. multinationals to unaffiliated foreign customers accounted for 
an additional $213 billion in merchandise exports. Altogether, exports by U.S. multi- 
nationals were $407 billion in 1996— or 65 percent of all U.S. merchandise exports.^ 

A recent study by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
complements other academic research in finding that each dollar of outward foreign 
direct investment is associated with $2.00 of additional exports and an increase in 
the bilateral trade surplus of $1.70.^ 

B. U.S. Employment 

Foreign investment by U.S. multinationals generates sales in foreign markets that 
generally could not be achieved by producing goods entirely at home and exporting 
them. The strategy used by U.S multinationals of using foreign affiliates in coordi- 
nation with domestic operations to produce goods allows U.S. multinationals to com- 
pete effectively around the world while still generating significant U.S. exports. 
These U.S. exports result in additional employment of U.S. workers at higher than 
average wage rates.^ 

A number of studies find investment abroad generates additional employment at 
home through an increase in the domestic operations of U.S. multinationals. As 
noted by Professors David Riker and Lael Brainard: 

The fundamental empirical result is that the labor demand of U.S. multi- 
nationals is linked internationally at the firm level, presumably through trade 
in intermediate and final goods, and this link results in complementarity rather 
than competition between employers in industrialized and developing coun- 
tries.5 

This relationship between foreign operations and domestic employment was also 
noted by the Council of Economic Advisers in the 1991 Economic Report of the Presi- 
dent: 

In most cases, if U.S. multinationals did not establish affiliates abroad 
to produce for the local market, they would be too distant to have an effec- 
tive presence in that market. In addition, companies from other countries 
would either establish such facilities or increase exports to that market. In 
effect, it is not really possibleto sustain exports to such markets in the long 
run. On a net basis, it is highly doubtful that U.S. direct investment abroad 
reduces U.S. exports or displaces U.S. jobs. Indeed, U.S. direct investment 
abroad stimulates U.S. companies to be more competitive internationally, 
which can generate U.S. exports and jobs. Equally important, U.S. direct 
investment abroad allows U.S. firms to allocate their resources more effi- 
ciently, thus creating healthier domestic operations, which, in turn, tend to 
create jobs.® 


^Matthew Slaughter, Global Investments, American Returns. Mainstay III: A Report on the 
Domestic Contributions of American Companies with Global Operations, Emergency Committee 
for American T rade (1998). 

^National Foreign Trade Council, The NFTC Foreign Income Project: International Tax Policy 
for the 21st Century, chapter 6 (1999). 

30ECD, Open Markets Matter: The Benefits of Trade and Investment Liberalization, p. 50 
(1998). 

‘‘Mark Dorns and Bradford J ensen. Comparing Wages, Skills, and Productivity between Do- 
mestic and Foreign-Owned Manufacturing Establishments In the United States, mimeo. (Octo- 
ber 1996). 

^Davld Riker and Lael Brainard, U.S. Multinationals and Competition from Low Wage Coun- 
tries, National Bureau of Economic Research Working Paper no. 5959 (1997). 

^Council of Economic Advisers, Economic Report of the President, p. 259 (1991). 



51 


C. U.S. Research and Ds/dopment 

Foreign direct investment aiiows U.S. companies to take advantage of their sci- 
entific expertise, increasing their return on firm-specific assets, inciuding patents, 
skiiis, and technoiogies. Professor Robert Lipsey notes that the abiiity to make use 
of these firm-specific assets through foreign direct investment provides an incentive 
to increase investment in activities that generate this know-how, such as research 
and development.^ 

Among U.S. multinationals, total research and development in 1996 amounted to 
$113 billion, of which $99 billion (88 percent) was performed in the United States.® 
Such research and development allows the United States to maintain its competitive 
advantage in business and be unrivaled as the world leader in scientific and techno- 
logical know-how. 

D. Summary 

U .S. multinationals provide significant contributions to the U.S. economy through: 

• A strong reliance on U.S. -provided goods in both domestic and foreign oper- 
ations: 

• Additional domestic employment of employees at above average wages; and 

• Critical domestic investments in equipment, technology, and research and de- 
velopment. 

As a result, the United States has a significant interest in insuring that its tax 
rules do not hinder the competitiveness of U.S. multinationals. 

III. Tax Policy and U.S. International Competitiveness 

The increasing integration of the world economies has magnified the impact of 
U.S. tax rules on the international competitiveness of U.S. multinationals. Foreign 
markets represent an increasing fraction of the growth opportunities for U.S. busi- 
nesses. At the same time, competition from multinationals headquartered outside of 
the United States is becoming greater. As an example of this heightened worldwide 
competition, between 1960 and 1996 the number of the world's 20 largest corpora- 
tions headquartered in the United States declined from 18 tojust 8. 

A. Why Tax Policy Matters 

With the increasing globalization of the world economies, it has become critical 
for U.S. businesses to compete internationally if they wish to remain competitive at 
home. If U.S. businesses are to succeed in the global economy, they will need a U.S. 
tax system that permits them to compete effectively against foreign-based compa- 
nies. This requires that U.S. international tax rules not place U.S. -headquartered 
multinationals at a competitive disadvantage in foreign markets. 

From an income tax perspective, the United States has become one of the least 
attractive industrial countries in which to locate the headquarters of a multinational 
corporation. This is because there are several major respects in which U.S. tax law 
differs from that of most of our trading partners. 

First, about half of the OECD countries have a territorial tax system (either by 
statute or treaty), under which a parent company is not subject to tax on the active 
income earned by a foreign subsidiary.® By contrast, the United States taxes income 
earned through a foreign corporation when it is repatriated or deemed to be repatri- 
ated under various "anti -deferral" rules in the tax code. 

Second, even among countries that tax income on a worldwide basis, the active 
business income of a foreign subsidiary is generally not subject to tax before it is 
remitted to the parent. “ This differs from the U.S treatment of foreign base com- 
pany sales and service income, and certain other types of active business income, 
which are subject to current U.S. tax even if such income is reinvested abroad. 

Third, other countries with worldwide tax systems have fewer restrictions on the 
use of foreign tax credits than does the United States. The United States, on the 
other hand, has a variety of rules that limit the crediting of foreign taxes. Such 
rules include: the use of multiple "baskets," restrictions imposed by the alternative 


^Robert Lipsey, "Outward Direct Investment and the U.S. Economy," in The Effects of Tax- 
ation on Muitinationai Corporations, p. 30 (1995). 

®U.S. Department of Commerce, Survey of Current Business (September 1998). 

^Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Taxing Profits in a Global Econ- 
omy (1991). 

^^Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, Controlled Foreign Company Leg- 
islation (l996). 

Foreign source income relating to active financing income was taxed on a current basis until 
the 1997 Act. Such income presently is exempted from current taxation, although this exemption 
is slated to expire on December 31, 1999. 



52 


minimum tax, the apportionment of interest and certain other deductions against 
foreign source income, and the attribution to a foreign subsidiary of a iarger meas- 
ure of income for U.S. purposes ("earnings and profits") than is used by other coun- 
tries. These ruies can resuit in the incompiete crediting of foreign taxes and, as 
a resuit, the doubie taxation of foreign source income earned by U.S. muitinationai 
corporations. 

Fourth, among the OECD countries, the United States, the Netheriands, and 
Switzeriand are the oniy countries that faii to provide some form of integration of 
the corporate and individuai income tax systems.!^ This integration is provided by 
the major trading partners of the United States in order to reduce or eiiminate the 
extent to which corporate income is doubie taxed by recognizing that dividends are 
paid to sharehoiders from income previousiy taxed at the corporate ievel. 

The net effect of these tax differences is that a U.S. muitinationai operating 
through a foreign subsidiary fr^uentiy pays a greater share of its income in foreign 
and U.S. tax than does a simiiar foreign subsidiary owned by a competing muiti- 
nationai company headquartered outside of the United States. This makes it more 
expensive for U.S. companies to operate abroad than their foreign-based competi- 
tors. In such circumstances, U.S. companies can oniy successfuiiy compete against 
foreign-based muitinationais if they are sufficientiy more efficient than the competi- 
tion to overcome this artificiaiiy imposed tax disadvantage. 

B. Capital Export Neutrality 

Whiie concerns for competitiveness require a U.S. muitinationai operating in a 
foreign country to pay the same tax as a foreign-based muitinationai operating in 
that country, another efficiency concern is frequentiy proffered to support taxing a 
U.S. investor equaiiy whether the investment is made at home or abroad. This iat- 
ter notion is referred to as "capitai export neutraiity." Capitai export neutraiity 
seeks to ensure that a resident of a given country pays the same rate of tax whether 
the investment is made at home or abroad. In general terms, capital export neu- 
trality is thought to not bias the location of investment from the investor's perspec- 
tive. Capital export neutrality requires that all foreign source income be taxed on 
a current basis by the home country and that the home country provides an unlim- 
ited foreign tax credit for all taxes paid. 

The principles of competitiveness and capital export neutrality necessarily conflict 
whenever effective tax rates differ across countries. U.S. international tax policy has 
frequently wrestled with the tradeoffs between these two principles. In a recent 
speech. Treasury Assistant Secretary of Tax Policy, Donald Lubick, noted the trade- 
off between these prindples.^^ 

The Internal Revenue Service issuance last year of Notice 98-11, in which the 
IRS announced that Treasury would issue regulations to prevent the use of certain 
"hybrid branch" arrangements deemed contrary to the policies and rules of Subpart 
F, demonstrated the Treasury's concern for capital export neutrality.!^ jhe hybrid 
branch arrangements targeted by this Notice reduced foreign taxes, not U.S. taxes. 

I ndeed, the use of these arrangements can only serve to increase total U.S. tax paid 
by U.S. multinationals since aggregate foreign tax credits would be reduced. 

The debate regarding the principles of competitiveness and capital export neu- 
trality dates back at least to 1961, when President Kennedy proposed the current 
taxation of all foreign source income earned by foreign subsidiaries of U.S. compa- 
nies (except in developing countries). The legislation ultimately enacted in 1962, 
however, put traditional concerns of competitiveness ahead of the Kennedy Adminis- 
tration's concerns for capital export neutrality.!"^ 

C. Does Capital Export Neutrality Promote Efficiency? 

The theoretical model in which capital export neutrality results in worldwide effi- 
ciency in the allocation of capital resources is a fairly simple model. In its simplest 


!2Price Waterhouse LLP, Taxation of U.S. Corporations Doing Business Abroad: U.S. Ruies 
and Competitiveness Issues, Finandai Executives Research Foundation (1996). 

!3Sijbren Cnossen, Reform and Flarmonization of Company Tax Systems in the European 
Union, mimeo., Erasmus University (1996). 

!‘’Organization for Economic Cooperation and Deveiopment, Taxing Profits in a Giobai Econ- 
omy (1991). 

i^Donaid C. Lubick, Treasury Assistant Secretary of Tax Poiicy, Speech before the George 
Washington University/IRS I nstitute (December 11, 1998). 

!®Reguiations that wouid have created subpart F income with respect to such transactions 
were proposed in March 1998, but their withdrawai was subsequentiy announced by Notice 98- 
35. Notice 98-35 expresses the intention to re-issue simiiar ruies. 

I'^See Nationai Foreign Trade Councii, The NFTC Foreign Income Project: International Tax 
Policy for the 21st Century, chapter 2 (1999). 



53 


form, savings in every country is in fixed suppiy and is not responsive to market 
opportunities. As a resuit, each doiiar of foreign direct investment by a domestic 
resident resuits in one iess doiiar of domestic investment. The model makes a num- 
ber of simplifications, but, even so, capital export neutrality leads to worldwide effi- 
ciency only if all countries follow a tax system imposing capital export neutrality. 
As noted earlier, in practice a substantial number of the major trading partners of 
the United States— half of the OECD— exempt active foreign source income from 
taxation. In such a case, an attempt by the United States to maintain capital export 
neutrality does not necessarily improve either worldwide efficiency or U.S. well- 
being. A well-known economic theorem shows that when there is more than one de- 
parture from economic efficiency, correcting only one of them may not be an im- 
provement. 18 Unilateral imposition of capital export neutrality by the United States 
may fail to advance both worldwide efficiency and U.S. national well-being. 

The simple model supporting capital export neutrality fails to consider a number 
of real-world features that significantly affect the tax policy conclusions one should 
draw regarding the tax principles that promote worldwide efficiency and U.S. well- 
being. For example, the model fails to consider that competition among multi- 
national corporations takes place in a strategic environment where companies can 
increase their income by achieving economies of scale. In work co-authored with Mi- 
chael Devereux, we show that, when these assumptions are relaxed, deferral of 
home-country taxation on foreign source income can increase the well-being of do- 
mestic residents relative to a system of current inclusion of foreign earnings. 

The simple model supporting capital export neutrality also fails to consider the 
possibility that foreign direct investment is complementary to domestic invest- 
ment— rather than a substitute for domestic investment. As discussed earlier, a 
number of economic studies find that, at the firm level, foreign direct investment 
results in an increase in exports from the home country to foreign subsidiaries. 

Another important example of the simple model's failings is that it ignores the 
possibility that domestic residents can transfer their savings abroad through port- 
folio investment as an alternative to foreign direct investment. As recently as 1980, 
portfolio investment abroad by U.S. investors was only about one-sixth the size of 
U.S. direct investment abroad. By 1997, however, portfolio investment abroad was 
40 percent larger than U.S. direct investment abroad. If U.S. tax law disadvan- 
tages U.S. multinationals, U.S. investors today have the opportunity to direct their 
savings to portfolio investment in foreign multinationals, the foreign investments of 
which are not subject to U.S. corporate income tax. 

For these reasons, contemporary economic analysis offers little reason to believe 
that unilateral adoption of the principle of capital export neutrality can improve ei- 
ther worldwide efficiency or U.S. well-being. 

D. I mplications for U.S. Multinationals 

As noted earlier, from a tax perspective the United States is one of the least fa- 
vorable industrial countries in which a multinational corporation can locate. Over 
time, these U.S. tax rules could lead to a reduction in the share of multinational 
income earned by companies headquartered in the United States. This decline in the 
importance of U.S. multinationals should be a concern for the very real loss in eco- 
nomic opportunities such a decline would bring about for American workers and 
their families. 

Professor Laura Tyson, former Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers and 
former Director of the National Economic Council, points out a number of political, 
strategic, and economic reasons why maintaining a high share of U.S. control over 
global assets remains in the national interest. These include: 

• U.S. multinationals locate over 70 percent of their assets and employment in 
the United States; 

• U.S. multinationals invest more per employee and pay more per employee at 
home than abroad in both developed and developing countries; and 

• U.S. multinationals perform the overwhelming majority of their research and 
development at home. 

If the United States wishes to attract and retain high-end jobs, the U.S. tax sys- 
tem must not discourage multinationals from establishing their headquarters here. 


i®R.G. Lipsey and K. Lancaster, 'The General Theory of the Second Best," Review of Eco- 
nomic Studies, pp. 11-32 (1956-57). 

i^Michael P. Devereux and R. Glenn Hubbard, 'Taxing Multinationals," mimeo. (j anuary 
1999). 

™U.S. Department of Commerce, Survey of Current Business (j uly 1998). 

2iLaura D'Andrea Tyson, 'They Are Not Us: Why American Ownership Still Matters," Amer- 
ican Prospect (Winter 1991). 



54 


In several recent high-profile mergers among U.S. and European multinational 
corporations (including AEGON -Transamerica, BP-Amoco, Daimler-Chrysler, Deut- 
sche Bank-Bankers Trust, and Vodafone-AirTouch) the merged entity has chosen to 
be a foreign-headquartered company. In recent testimony before the Senate Finance 
Committee, DaimlerChrysler's vice president and chief tax counsel specifically impli- 
cated the overly burdensome U.S. international tax regime as a key factor in the 
merged firm's decision to be a German-headquartered company. 22 Future invest- 
ments made by these companies outside of the United States are unlikely to be 
made through the U.S. subsidiary since tax on these operations can be permanently 
removed from the U.S. corporate income tax system by instead making them 
through the foreign parent. 

As I pointed out earlier, portfolio investment offers still another, perhaps less visi- 
ble, route by which foreign-owned multinationals can expand at the expense of U.S. 
multinationals. If U.S. multinationals cannot profitably expand abroad due to unfa- 
vorable U.S. tax rules, foreign-owned multinationals will attract the investment dol- 
lars of U.S. investors. Individuals purchasing shares of foreign companies— either 
through mutual funds or directly through shares listed on U.S. and foreign ex- 
changes— can generally ensure that their investments escape the U.S. corporate in- 
come tax on foreign subsidiary earnings. 

While some have suggested that reductions in the U.S. tax on foreign source in- 
come could lead to a movement of manufacturing operations out of the United 
States ("runaway plants"), a far more likely scenario is that a noncompetitive U.S. 
tax system will lead to "runaway headquarters"— a migration of multinational head- 
quarters outside the United States and an increase in the foreign control of cor- 
porate assets. 

The decline in the market share of multinationals headquartered in the United 
States has important implications for the well-being of the U.S. economy. Fligh-pay- 
ing manufacturing jobs and high-paying executive jobs are lost with the movement 
of these headquarters. Research and development may be shifted abroad, in addition 
to jobs in high-paying service industries, such as finance, associated with head- 
quarters' activities. Further, foreign-based multinationals operating in the United 
States rely significantly more on inputs and supplies produced offshore than do 
U.S. -owned companies. At the same time, the channeling of new investment outside 
of the United States through foreign subsidiaries owned by the foreign parent re- 
sults in the generation of income completely outside of the U.S. tax system. A desire 
to tax foreign source income at rates higher than those of our competitors may ulti- 
mately insure that that there is little income left to tax. 

IV. Conclusions 

In summary, U.S. tax rules can have a significant impact on the ability of U.S. 
multinationals to compete successfully around the world and, ultimately, at home. 
On behalf of the International Tax Policy Forum, I urge that this Committee care- 
fully review the U.S. international tax system with a view to removing impediments 
that limit the ability of U.S. multinationals to compete globally on the same terms 
as foreign-based multinationals. Such reforms would enhance the well-being of 
American families and allow the United States to retain its world economic leader- 
ship position into the 21st century. 


Appendix International Tax Policy Forum Member Companies. 


American Express 
Company 

America Online, Inc. 
Associates First Capital 
Corporation 
Bank of America 
Bristol-Myers Squibb 
Company 
Caterpillar I nc. 

CIGNA Corporation 
Cisco Systems, Inc. 
Citigroup 


Dow Chemical Company 
Eastman Kodak Company 
Emerson Electric Co. 
Enron Corporation 
Exxon Corporation 
Ford Motor Company 
General Electric Co. 
General Motors 
Corporation 
Georgia-Pacific 
Corporation 


Goodyear Tire & Rubber 
Company 
Flewlett-Packard 
Company 
Floneywell, Inc. 

IBM Corporation 
ITT Industries, Inc. 

J ohnson & J ohnson, Inc. 
Merrill Lynch & Co., Inc. 
Microsoft Corporation 
Morgan Stanley, Dean 
Witter & Co. 


22J ohn L. Loffredo, 'Testimony before the Senate Finance Committee" (March 11, 1999). 



55 


PepsiCo, Inc. 

Philip Morris Companies, 
I nc. 

Premark International, 
Inc. 


The Procter & Gamble 
Company 

The Prudential Insurance 
Company 
Tenneco, Inc. 


T upperware Corporation 
United Technologies 
Corporation 
Warner-Lambert 
Company 


Chairman Archer. Thank you, Dr. Hubbard. 

The next witness is Mr. Murray. Weicome, and you may proceed. 

STATEMENT OF FRED F. MURRAY, VICE PRESIDENT FOR TAX 
POLICY, NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL, INC. 

Mr. Murray. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Good morning and good 
morning to the distinguished Members of the Committee. My name 
is Fred Murray, i am Vice President for Tax Poiicy for the Nationai 
Foreign Trade Councii. With me today are Mr. Phii Morrison, di- 
rector of the i nternationai Tax Services Group in the Washington 
nationai office of Deioitte & Touche and formeriy i nternationai Tax 
Counsei at the Treasury. And aiso, Mr. Peter Merriii, director of 
the Nationai Economic Consuiting practice at Pricewaterhouse- 
Coopers in their Washington nationai office, and who was formeriy 
chief economist for thej oint Committee on Taxation. 

Our testimony reiates to the Foreign income Project of the Na- 
tionai Foreign Trade Councii. My written statement and a copy of 
our report is before you in your packets. 

in addition to the three of us, the Project has been drafted and 
reviewed by more than 50 distinguished professionais, former 
Treasury and iRS officiais, inciuding Assistant Secretaries and 
Deputy Assistant Secretaries for Tax Poiicy, i nternationai Tax 
Counseis, a Commissioner of internai Revenue, and other distin- 
guished iawyers and economists, corresponding professionais from 
Hiii offices, and, finaiiy, distinguished iawyers, accountants, and 
economists from some of America's most prominent companies, pro- 
fessionai firms, and universities. 

The NFTC is an association of businesses with some 550 mem- 
bers founded in 1914. Most of the iargest U.S. manufacturing com- 
panies and most of the 50 iargest U.S. banks are Councii members, 
accounting for at ieast 70 percent of aii U.S. non-agricuiturai ex- 
ports and 70 percent of U.S. private foreign investment. 

in 1997, the NFTC iaunched this project in response to growing 
concerns about the disparity between U.S. trade poiicy and U.S. tax 
poiicy. Foreign competition faced by U.S. -based businesses has 
greatiy intensified in recent years. The giobaiization of business 
has aiso greatiy acceierated. We beiieve it is important to pause to 
iook at these changes and at their impiications. 

We focus our study on the iast 40 or so years because in 1962, 
Congress made major changes in our i nternationai tax system in 
enacting Subpart F. Subpart F was shaped in a giobai economic en- 
vironment that has changed aimost beyond recognition as the 20th 
century comes to a dose. The goid standard has been abandoned. 
The exchange rate of the doiiar is no ionger fixed. The United 
States is now the iargest importer of capitai, with foreign invest- 
ment in U.S. assets exceeding U.S. investment in foreign assets by 
over $100 biiiion per year. 



56 


Our current rules, to the extent they were enacted for more than 
revenue considerations, are often based on economic underpinnings 
that no longer apply. Mr. Merrill will elaborate on these issues in 
his remarks. 

Our study today leads us to several broad conclusions: 

United States-based companies are much more dependent on 
global markets for a significant share of their sales and profits, 
and, hence, have plentiful non-tax reasons for establishing foreign 
operations. 

United States-based companies are now far less dominant in 
global markets, and, hence, more adversely affected by the competi- 
tive disadvantage of incurring current home country taxes with re- 
spect to income that in the hands of a non-U. S. -based competitor 
is subject only to local taxation. 

Changes in U.S. tax law in recent decades have on balance in- 
creased the taxation of foreign income. And, as Mr. Morrison will 
discuss in a greater detail, we have also concluded that U.S. tax- 
ation of foreign income is far more complex and burdensome than 
that of other significant trading nations and far more complex and 
burdensome than what is required by appropriate tax policy. We 
have tried to lead other countries to our position, but none have fol- 
lowed us to where we are. 

United States tax laws impose rules that are different in impor- 
tant respects than those imposed by many other nations upon their 
companies. Other countries also tax the worldwide income of their 
nationals and companies doing business outside their territories. 
But such systems are generally less complex, and provide for defer- 
ral subject to less significant limitations. Importantly, many have 
territorial systems of taxation and/or border adjustable VAT sys- 
tems. 

The U.S. foreign tax credit system is very complex, particularly 
in the computation of applicable limitations under section 904. Sys- 
tems imposed by other countries are in all cases less punitive. The 
current U.S. international tax system contains many anomalies 
that make little sense when considered in the context of the mat- 
ters we discussed today, and that create many "heads, I win, tails, 
you lose," scenarios that are difficult to justify on a principled 
basis. One of those that has been noted a number of times today 
is the allocation of interest expense between domestic and foreign 
subsidiaries for the purpose of determining the foreign tax credit 
limitation. 

Finally, in a 1991 OECD study, the United States and J apan are 
tied as the least competitive G-7 countries for a multinational com- 
pany to locate its headquarters, taking into account taxation at 
both the individual and corporate levels. These findings have an 
ominous quality, given the recent spate of acquisitions of large 
U.S.-based companies by their foreign competitors. In fact, of the 
world's 20 largest companies, ranked by sales in 1960, 18 were 
headquartered in the United States. By the mid-nineties, that 
number had dropped to eight and is probably less today. That 
trend is starkly reflected in the banking sector. After recent acqui- 
sitions, only two, CitiCorp and Chase Manhattan, of the world's 
largest 25 financial services companies are headquartered in the 
United States. 



57 


In closing, Mr. Chairman, the NFTC strongly supports H.R. 
2018, introduced by Mr. Houghton, Mr. Levin, and Mr. Johnson, 
and joined by Mr. Crane, Mr. Merger, Mr. English, and Mr. Matsui. 
We congratulate them on their efforts to make these amendments. 
They address important concerns of our companies in their efforts 
to export American products and to create jobs for American work- 
ers. 

And we congratulate you on holding this hearing this morning. 
That concludes my oral remarks. I will be pleased to answer ques- 
tions. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of Fred F. Murray, Vice President for Tax Policy, National 
Foreign Trade Council, Inc. 

Mr. Chairman, and Distinguished Members of the Committee: 

My name is Fred Murray. I am Vice President for Tax Poiicy for the Nationai For- 
eign Trade Councii, Inc. I was formerly Special Counsel (Legislation) for the Inter- 
nal Revenue Service, and before that represented taxpayers for seventeen years in 
private practice before joining the Treasury. With me today are Mr. Phil Morrison, 
Director of the International Tax Services Group in the Washington National Office 
of Deloitte & Touche LLP and formerly International Tax Counsel at the U.S. Treas- 
ury, and Mr. Peter Merrill, Director of the National Economic Consulting Practice 
at Pricewaterhouse Coopers in their Washington National Tax Services Office and 
formerly Chief Economist for the J oint Committee on Taxation. We intend to sum- 
marize for you the analysis and conclusions that have been reached in the ongoing 
National Foreign Trade Council Foreign I n come Project. In addition to the two gen- 
tlemen here with me today, the project has been drafted and reviewed by more than 
fifty distinguished professionals: former Treasury and IRS officials including Assist- 
ant Secretaries and Deputy Assistant Secretaries for Tax Policy, International Tax 
Counsels, a Commissioner of Internal Revenue, and other distinguished lawyers and 
economists, corresponding professionals from Flill offices, and finally distinguished 
lawyers, accountants, and economists from some of America's most prominent com- 
panies, professional firms, and universities. 

The National Foreign Trade Council, Inc. (the "NFTC" or the "Council") is appre- 
ciative of the opportunity to present its views on the impact on international com- 
petitiveness of certain of the foreign provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of the 
United States. 

The NFTC is an association of businesses with some 550 members, originally 
founded in 1914 with the support of President Woodrow Wilson and 341 business 
leaders from across the U.S. Its membership now consists primarily of U.S. firms 
engaged in all aspects of international business, trade, and investment. Most of the 
largest U.S. manufacturing companies and most of the 50 largest U.S. banks are 
Council members. Council members account for at least 70% of all U.S. non-agricul- 
tural exports and 70% of U.S. private foreign investment. The NFTC's emphasis is 
to encourage policies that will expand U.S. exports and enhance the competitiveness 
of U.S. companies by eliminating major tax inequities and anomalies. International 
tax reform is of substantial interest to NFTC's membership. 

The founding of the Council was in recognition of the growing importance of for- 
eign trade and investment to the health of the national economy. Since that time, 
expanding U.S. foreign trade and investment, and incorporating the United States 
into an increasingly integrated world economy, has become an even more vital con- 
cern of our nation's leaders. The share of U.S. corporate earnings attributable to for- 
eign operations among many of our largest corporations now exceeds 50 percent of 
their total earnings. Even this fact in and of itself does not convey the full impor- 
tance of exports to our economy and to American-based jobs, because it does not ad- 
dress the additional fact that many of our smaller and medium-sized businesses do 
not consider themselves to be exporters although much of their product is supplied 
as inventory or components to other U.S. -based companies who do export. Foreign 
trade is fundamental to our economic growth and our future standard of living. Al- 
though the U.S. economy is still the largest economy in the world, its growth rate 
represents a mature market for many of our companies. As such, U.S. employers 
must export in order to expand the U.S. economy by taking full advantage of the 
opportunities in overseas markets. 



58 


The Council Believes That We Must Re-evaluate Current International 

Tax Policies 

United States policy in regard to trade matters has been broadly expansionist for 
many years, but its tax policy has not followed suit. 

The foreign competition faced by U.S. -based companies has intensified as the 
globalization of business has accelerated. At the same time, U.S. -based multi- 
nationals increasingly voice their conviction that the Internal Revenue Code places 
them at a competitive disadvantage in relation to multinationals based in other 
countries. In 1997, the NFTC launched an international tax policy review project, 
at least partly in response to this growing chorus of concern. The project is presently 
divided into two parts, the first dealing with the United States' anti-deferral regime, 
subpart F, the second dealing with the foreign tax credit. The two parts are in turn 
divided into two phases. In both, an analytical report examining the legal, economic 
and tax policy aspects of the U.S. rules will be followed by legislative and policy rec- 
ommendations based on the analytical report. 

On March 25, 1999, the NFTC published a report analyzing the competitive im- 
pact on U.S. -based companies of the rules under subpart F of the tax code, which 
accelerate the U.S. taxation of income earned by foreign affiliates.^ The data and 
analysis presented in Part One support several significant conclusions: 

• Since the enactment of subpart F more than 35 years ago, the development of 
a global economy has substantially eroded the rules' economic policy rationale. 

• The breadth of subpart F exceeds the international norms for such rules, ad- 
versely affecting the competitiveness of U.S. -based companies by subjecting their 
cross-border operations to a heavier tax burden than that borne by their principal 
foreign-based competitors. 

• Most importantly, subpart F applies too broadly to various categories of income 
that arise in the course of active foreign business operations, and should thus be 
substantially narrowed. 

Our present testimony is in part based upon the findings described in the Report. 

Fundamental Changes in the Economic Underpinnings of Our International 

Tax System 

The compromise embodied in a significant portion of our present international tax 
system was shaped in the global economic environment of the early 1960s— a world 
economy that has changed almost beyond recognition as the 20th century draws to 
a close. 

In the decades since subpart F was enacted in 1962, the global economy has 
grown more rapidly than the U.S. economy. By almost every measure— income, ex- 
ports, or cross-border investment— U .S. -based companies today represent a smaller 
share of the global market. At the same time, U.S. -based companies have become 
increasingly dependent on foreign markets for continued growth and prosperity. 
Over the last three decades, sales and income from foreign subsidiaries have in- 
creased much more rapidly than sales and income from domestic operations. To 
compete successfully both at home and abroad, U.S. -based companies have adopted 
global sourcing and distribution channels, as have their competitors. 

Changes introduced since 1962 in subpart F and other important rules in our 
international tax system have imposed current U.S. taxation on ever-larger cat- 
egories of active foreign income. These two incompatible trends -decreasing U.S. 
dominance in global markets set against increasing U.S. taxation of CFC income- 
are not claimed to have any necessary causal relation. Flowever, they strongly sug- 
gest that re-evaluation of the balance of policies that underlie our rules is long over- 
due. 

Because economic arguments advanced against the backdrop of the 1962 economy 
are the foundation upon which subpart F was erected, the balance that was struck 
in 1962 may no longer be appropriate. The same is true for other provisions of our 
international tax system that were constructed with far different bases in mind. 

Accordingly, with U.S. -based companies less dominant in foreign markets, but at 
the same time more dependent on those markets, U.S. international tax rules that 
are out of step with those of other major industrial countries are more likely to 
hamper the competitiveness of U.S. multinationals than was the case in the 1960s. 
The growing economic integration among nations -especially the formation of com- 
mon markets and free trade areas -raises questions about the appropriateness of 
U.S. tax rules regarding "base" companies that transact business across national 


iThe NFTC Foreign Income Project: International Tax Policy for the 21st Century; Part One: 
A Reconsideration of Subpart F (hereinafter referred to as "Part One" or "the Report"). 



59 


borders with affiliates. Finally, the eclipsing of foreign direct investment by portfolio 
investment calls into question the importance of tax policy focused on foreign direct 
investment for purposes of achieving an efficient global allocation of capital. 

We will discuss these issues in greater detail in the balance of my testimony and 
in that of my colleagues. 

Where We Came From and Where We Are Today 

In 1962, the Kennedy Administration proposed to subject the earnings of U .S. con- 
trolled foreign corporations (CFCs) to current U.S. taxation. At this time, the dollar 
was tied to the gold standard, and the United States was the world's largest capital 
exporter. These capital exports drained Treasury's gold reserves, and made it more 
difficult for the Administration to stimulate the economy. Thus, the proposed repeal 
of deferral of tax on the foreign income of U.S. multinationals was intended by 
Treasury Secretary Douglas Dillon to serve as a form of capital control, reducing 
the outflow of U.S. investment abroad. 

The 1962 Legislation 

Some commentators have taken the view that subpart F as enacted in 1962 re- 
flected a compromise between two competing tax policy goals. Treasury itself has 
recently described subpart F as enforcing a balance between the goal of maintaining 
the competitiveness of U.S. business, on the one hand, and on the other of maintain- 
ing neutrality as between the taxation of domestic and foreign business (capital ex- 
port neutrality 2). The compromise between competitiveness and neutrality that was 
struck in 1962 has been seriously disrupted by the legal and economic changes of 
nearly four decades. 

The United States has never enacted an international tax regime that makes cap- 
ital export neutrality its principal goal with respect to the taxation of business in- 
come. Indeed, during the period 1918-1928, the formative era for U.S. tax policy re- 
garding international business income, the United States ceded primary taxing ju- 
risdiction over active business income to the country of source.^ Rules were formu- 
lated to protect the ability of the United States to collect tax on U.S. -source income, 
and the foreign tax credit was introduced allowing U.S. income tax to be imposed 
whenever the foreign country where the income was sourced failed to tax the in- 
come. The dominant purpose of the U.S. international tax system put in place 
then— a system that still governs U.S. taxation of international income— was to 
eliminate the double taxation of business income earned abroad by U.S. taxpayers, 
which had been imposed under the taxing regime enacted at the inception of the 
income tax."^ 

When the foreign tax credit was first enacted in 1918, the United States taxed 
income earned abroad by foreign corporations only when that income was repatri- 
ated to the United States. In addition to implementing the basic policy decision to 
grant source countries the principal claim to the taxation of business income, this 
"deferral of income"^ reflected concerns both about whether the United States had 
the legal power to tax income of foreign corporations (even if owned by U .S. persons) 
and about the practical ability of the United States to measure and collect tax on 
income earned abroad by a foreign corporation.® Deferral of tax on active business 
income remained essentially unchanged for the next 44 years— until 1962. The only 


^"Capital export neutrality" is a term used to describe a situation in which tax considerations 
will play no part in influencing a decision to invest in another country. 

^SaeMichael J . Graetz & Michael O'Hear, The Original Intent of U.S. International Taxation, 
46 Duke L.J . 1021 (1997). 

‘*/d. The original system had allowed only a deduction for foreign income taxes. 

^The foreign income of a foreign corporation is not ordinarily subject to U.S. taxation, since 
the United States has neither a residence nor a source basis for imposing tax. This applies gen- 
erally to any foreign corporation, whether it is foreign-owned or U.S.-owned. This means that 
in the case of a U.S. -control led foreign corporation (CFG), U.S. tax is normally imposed only 
when the CFC's foreign earnings are repatriated to the U.S. owners, typically in the form of 
a dividend. However, subpart F of the Code alters these general rules to accelerate the imposi- 
tion of U.S. tax with respect to various categories of income earned by CFCs. 

It is common usage in international tax circles to refer to the normal treatment of CFG in- 
come as "deferral" of U.S. tax, and to refer to the operation of subpart F as "denying the benefit 
of deferral." However, given the general jurisdictional principles that underlie the operation of 
the U.S. rules, we view that usage as somewhat inaccurate, since it could be read to imply that 
U.S. tax "should" have been imposed currently in some normative sense. Given that the nor- 
mative rule imposes no U.S. tax on the foreign income of a foreign person, we believe that sub- 
part F can more accurately be referred to as "accelerating" a tax that would not be imposed 
until a later date under normal rules. 

®See supra note 3. 



60 


exception to this rule was the result of "foreign personal holding company" legisla- 
tion enacted in 1937 to curb the use of foreign corporations to hold income-producing 
assets and to sell assets with unrealized (and untaxed) appreciation. The foreign 
personal holding company rules tax currently certain kinds of "passive" income of 
a narrow class of corporations in the hands of their owners.^ 

However, President Kennedy urged a reversal of this longstanding U.S. tax policy 
in 1961. The President called for the "elimination of tax deferral privileges in devel- 
oped countries and 'tax haven' privileges in all countries.''^ President Kennedy's 
1961 State of the Union Address, elaborated on in his tax message of April 20, 1961, 
prompted Congressional consideration during 1961 and 1962 of changes in the U.S. 
taxation of controlled foreign corporations. In addressing broad balance of payments 
concerns, Kennedy announced in his State of the Union Address that his adminis- 
tration would ask Congress to reassess the tax provisions that favored investment 
in foreign countries over investment in the United States. The President, in his 
April tax message, urged five goals for revising U.S. tax policy: (1) to alleviate the 
U.S. balance of payments deficit; (2) to help modernize U.S. industry: (3) to stimu- 
late growth of the economy: (4) to eliminate to the extent possible economic injus- 
tice: and (5) to maintain the level of revenues requested by President Eisenhower 
in his last budget. 

In addition to changes in foreign income tax provisions. President Kennedy, in 
both his State of the Union Address and tax message, called for the introduction 
of an 8 percent investment tax credit on purchases of machinery and equipment to 
"spur our modernization, our growth and our ability to compete abroad."® Kennedy 
urged that this credit be limited to expenditures on new machinery and equipment 
"located in the United States."^® [Emphasis added.] 

Specifically, with regard to the taxation of foreign income, the President stated 
that "changing conditions" made continuation of the "deferral privilege undesirable," 
and proposed the elimination of tax deferral in developed countries and in tax ha- 
vens everywhere. The President stated: 

To the extent that these tax havens and other tax deferral privileges result 
in U.S. firms investing or locating abroad largely for tax reasons, the efficient 
allocation of international resources is upset, the initial drain on our already 
adverse balance of payments is never fully compensated, and profits are re- 
tained and reinvested abroad which would otherwise be invested in the United 
States. Certainly since the post-war reconstruction of Europe and Japan has 
been completed, there are no longer foreign policy reasons for providing tax in- 
centives for foreign investment in the economically advanced countries."!^ 

The Kennedy Administration's recommendations with respect to deferral and the 
investment tax credit were not neutral toward the location of capital. 

It is clear that neither the House nor the Senate embraced the Kennedy Adminis- 
tration's call. The President's proposal was rejected by the Congress, and the legisla- 
tion that eventually passed as the Revenue Act of 1962 provided for much narrower 
constraints on deferral of the taxation of active business income. Congress aimed 
to curb tax haven abuses rather than to end the deferral of U.S. income tax on ac- 
tive business income in developed countries. The 1962 legislation, as ultimately en- 
acted, was targeted at eliminating certain "abuses" permitted under prior law, al- 
though, the historical record is far from clear about exactly what the "abuses" were 
that Congress intended to curb. 

The abuses that the Revenue Act of 1962 sought to rectify changed substantially 
as the legislation made its way through the legislative process. Under President 
Kennedy's original proposal contained in his tax message of April 1961, and urged 
throughout the Congressional process by Treasury Secretary Dillon, any deferral of 
U.S. taxation constituted an abuse. An exception to current taxation would have 
been provided for (and limited to) investments in less developed countries, but this 
exception was explicitly grounded in foreign policy, not tax policy, considerations. 

Treasury's proposal of J uly 20, 1961, implicitly treated as abusive the deferral of 
tax on income from transactions between a foreign corporation and a related party 
outside the country in which the foreign corporation was organized. | n the Senate 


^See I.R.C. §§ 552 and 553. 

^Message of the President's Tax Recommendations, Aprii 20, 1961, reprinted in H.R. Doc. No. 
87-140, at 6 (1961). 

®SasH.R. Rep. No. 87-2508, at 2 (1962)(Conference Report). 

i°See Message of the President's Tax Recommendations (Aprii 20, 1961), reprinted in H.R. 
Doc. No. 87-140, at 4 (1961). 
ii/d., at 6-7. 

i^Staff of the J oint Comm, on Internai Revenue Taxation, 87th Cong., Generai Expianation 
of Comm. Discussion Draft of Revenue Biii of 1961, at 5 (Comm. Print 1961). 



61 


Finance Committee hearings, Secretary Dillon singled out as abusive the use of for- 
eign corporations that market their goods or services in third countries with the 
subjective intent of "reducing taxes. The potential of transfer pricing abuses be- 
tween related companies were a concern. 

In the legislation sent to the Flouse by the Committee on Ways and Means and 
adopted by the Flouse, the abuse appeared to be the avoidance of "taxation by the 
United States on what could ordinarily be expected to be U.S. source income."i"^ As 
stated above, this concern was consistent with U.S. tax policy dating back to the 
formative period of 1918-1928, and can be viewed, not as a change in policy, but 
rather as an application of longstanding policies to new circumstances. 

It is clear, however, that Congress did not intend to reverse the policy of generally 
permitting deferral of active business income earned abroad. Ultimately, no clear 
Congressional understanding of exactly what constituted an abuse can be deter- 
mined from the history of the 1962 Revenue Act. I ndeed, the Act left determinations 
of abuse— at least to some extent— up to the T reasury on a case-by-case basis. What 
these provisions seek to do is still mysterious even today. 

The I mportance of Transfer Pricing Ds/dopments 

In reviewing Secretary Dillon's concerns, and the subs^uent enactment of the 
base company rules, it is clear that the subpart F provisions were intended to be 
a "backstop" to the then existing transfer pricing regime of the Code. Very signifi- 
cant changes have taken place in the field of transfer pricing administration since 
the 1962 legislation, asTreasury itself has testified in recent years. 

When subpart F was enacted, the use of improper transfer pricing to shift income 
into tax haven jurisdictions was a major concern of Treasury and Congress. Al- 
though contemporaneous efforts were being made to address transfer pricing con- 
cerns via regulations under section 482, significant aspects of subpart F were spe- 
cifically intended to backstop transfer pricing enforcement by imposing current U.S. 
tax on various forms of tax haven income, thus reducing U.S. taxpayers' incentives 
to shift income into tax havens. In particular, this was one of the stated reasons 
for the rules relating to foreign base company sales and services. By limiting the 
benefit of maximizing sales or services profits in a tax haven, these rules were in- 
tended to relieve some of the pressure on the still-nascent transfer pricing regime's 
ability to police the pricing of cross-border transactions. 

Nearly four decades later, transfer pricing law and administration have under- 
gone profound changes that call into serious question the continued relevance of 
subpart F to transfer pricing enforcement. Most conspicuously, based on legislative 
changes in the 1986 and 1993 tax acts. Treasury has promulgated detailed regula- 
tions that have drastically altered the transfer pricing enforcement landscape. 
These regulations clarify many areas of substantive transfer pricing controversy, but 
perhaps more importantly they implement a structure of reporting and penalty 
rules that have had a considerable impact on taxpayer behavior. Further, although 
audit experience with the new rules is still limited, it is anticipated that the wide- 
spread availability of contemporaneous transfer pricing documentation will mark- 
edly enhance the Internal Revenue Service's ability to perform effective transfer 
pricing examinations. 

Almost as important is the globalization of transfer pricing enforcement efforts; 
partly in response to U.S. initiatives in the area, and partly because of compliance 
concerns of their own, many of the United States' major trading partners have re- 
cently stepped up their own transfer pricing enforcement efforts, enhancing report- 
ing and penalty regimes and increasing audit activity. As a result, the role of the 
Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) as a forum for the 
development of international consensus on transfer pricing matters has attained 
new prominence, with the United States making notable efforts to ensure that its 
own transfer pricing initiatives win international acceptance via the OECD. 

Accordingly, the ability of U.S. taxpayers to shift income into a sales base com- 
pany by manipulating the pricing of transactions is far more circumscribed than it 
was when transfer pricing as a discipline was in its infancy. This basic change in 
the landscape, in combination with the general development of a global economy, 
suggests that transfer pricing considerations no longer provide much support for the 
base company sales and services rules. Indeed, treating international transactions 


/d. 

i‘*H.R. Rep. No. 87-1447, at 58 (1962)(Committee on Ways and Means, Revenue Act of 1962). 
i^Transfer pricing was not, of course, the sole or even the principal rationale for these rules; 
they were also said to be justified by "anti-abuse" notions that related to protection of the U.S. 
tax base and, in the views of some, capital export neutrality. 

1^1. R.C. §§482 (last sentence) and 6662(e); Treas. Reg. §§1.482-1 through -8 and 1.6662-6. 



62 


through centralized sales or services companies as per se tax abusive ignores the 
current realities of both transfer pricing enforcement and the globally integrated 
business models demanded by the global marketplace. 

Development of Subpart F 

A lack of clarity in the historical record of the 1962 Act about what constituted 
an abuse of tax deferral in international transactions has resulted in ongoing de- 
bates about the proper scope of subpart F that continue to this day. Legislation 
since 1962 has changed the rules for when current taxation is required, but has not 
resolved the basic debate that raged in 1962. I nterpretations of the 1962 Act subse- 
quent to its enactment have sometimes described as abusive any transaction where 
a foreign government imposes lower tax than would be imposed by the United 
States on the same transaction or income.!^ This cannot be right. In 1962, Congress 
clearly rejected making capital export neutrality the linchpin of U.S. international 
tax policy. Attempting to force a strained interpretation of the legislation it did 
enact into an endorsement of capital export neutrality by defining anything that de- 
parts from capital export neutrality as an abuse flagrantly disregards the historical 
record. 

Nevertheless, in the years since 1962, subpart F has been the subject of numerous 
revisions, including substantial overhauls in 1975 and 1986: by the addition of new 
categories of subpart F income; by the narrowing of exceptions to subpart F income: 
and by the creation of additional anti-deferral regimes (/.e, the Passive Foreign In- 
vestment Company provisions). This constant tinkering has created both instability 
and a forbiddingly arcane web of general rules, exceptions, exceptions to exceptions, 
interactions, cross references, and effective dates, generating a level of complexity 
that cannot be defended. Further, while Congress has over the years modified the 
rules in ways that both tightened and relaxed the anti-deferral rules, it is clear that 
the overall trend has been to expand the scope of those rules. Particularly with the 
changes made in 1975 and 1986, Congress has brought more and more income with- 
in the net of current taxation, to the point where Treasury now feels justified in 
positing that current taxation is the general rule, with deferral permitted only as 
an exception. 

A review of this legislative activity makes it clear that U.S. international tax pol- 
icy has remained largely unchanged for more than three decades. Legislative activ- 
ity has continued to focus on perceived abuses of deferral (as well as the foreign 
tax credit), with relatively little consideration given to the changing relationship be- 
tween the U.S. economy and the rest of the world. 

1999 Is Not 1962 

The compromise embodied in subpart F was shaped in the global economic envi- 
ronment of the early 1960s— a world economy that has changed almost beyond rec- 
ognition as the 20th century draws to a close. The gold standard was abandoned 
during the Nixon Administration, and the exchange rate of the dollar is no longer 
fixed. The United States is now the world's largest importer of capital, with foreign 
investment in U.S. assets exceeding U.S. investment in foreign assets by over $100 
billion per year. 

With the completion of the post-World War II economic recovery in Europe and 
Japan, the growth of an industrial economy in many countries in Asia and else- 
where, and the overall development of a global economy, U.S. dominance of inter- 
national markets is only a memory. The competition from foreign-based companies 
in U.S. and international markets is far more intense today than it was in 1962. 
While competition in international markets has grown stiffen, those markets have 
simultaneously become more important to the prosperity of U.S. -based companies, 
as foreign income has come to constitute an increasing percentage of U.S. corporate 
earnings. 

The relentless tightening of the subpart F and foreign tax credit rules since 1962, 
plus the enactment of additional anti-deferral regimes, has steadily increased the 
tension between U.S. international tax policy and the competitive demands of a 


I'^See Stanford G. Ross, Report on the United States J urisdiction to Tax Foreign Income, 49b 
Stud, on Int'l Fiscal L. 184, 212 (1964). 

i^Some Treasury officials have suggested that the loss of U.S. dominance is simply a function 
of the rest of the world "catching up" after the devastation of World War II. This may well be 
true, but it is also irrelevant: whatever the reasons for the loss of U.S. dominance, the point 
is that the competitive landscape is completely different today, so that it is high time to recon- 
sider the competitive impact of legislative provisions enacted when the world was a very dif- 
ferent place. 



63 


global economy. A comparison between the policy goals of our International tax sys- 
tem and changes In the global economy Is thus long overdue. 

Relevant Tax Policy Considerations 

Without foreclosing the consideration of other factors, It should be noted that 
Treasury officials In recent months have suggested that five tax policy consider- 
ations will need to be taken Into account In the process of reforming subpart F : 

• Capital export neutrality 

• Competitiveness 

• Conformity with International norms 

• Minimizing compliance and administrative burdens 

• Meeting revenue needs In a fair manner 

Capital Export Neutrality 

As explained In detail In the Report, and as further explained by my colleagues 
with me on the panel this morning, the NFTC believes that the historical signifi- 
cance of capital export neutrality ("CEN") In the enactment of subpart F has come 
to be exaggerated by subsequent commentators. More Importantly, the Report finds 
numerous reasons to reject CEN as a foundation of U.S. International tax policy. 
Briefly summarized, these reasons Include: 

• The futility of attempting to achieve globally efficient capital allocation by uni- 
lateral action. 

• The similar futility of attempting to advance Investment neutrality by focusing 
solely on direct Investment, particularly In light of the fact that International port- 
folio Investment now significantly exceeds direct Investment. 

• The failure of the United States Itself to take CEN seriously as a matter of tax 
policy, other than In the one relatively narrow area of subpart F, where It appears 
to operate largely as a rationale of convenience. 

• Growing criticism of CEN In current economic literature. 

• The anomalousness of adopting a tax policy that encourages the payment of 
higher taxes to foreign governments. 

The fact that CEN Is the wrong starting point for our International tax policy Is 
particularly well Illustrated by the last Item. Several provisions of subpart F have 
the effect of penalizing a taxpayer that reduces Its foreign tax burden, apparently 
based on the CEN principles. Presumably the Idea Is that preventing U.S. taxpayers 
from reducing foreign taxes will ensure that they do not make Investment decisions 
based on the prospect of garnering a reduced rate of foreign taxation (while defer- 
ring U.S. taxation until repatriation). Flowever, Insisting that U.S. taxpayers pay 
full foreign tax rates when market forces require that they do business In another 
jurisdiction Is a flawed policy from at least three perspectives. First, from the stand- 
point of the tax system. Insisting on higher foreign tax payments obviously increases 
the amount of foreign taxes available to be credited against U.S. tax liability, thus 
decreasing U.S. tax collections in the long run. Second, from the standpoint of com- 
petitiveness, it leaves U.S. -based companies in a worse position than their foreign- 
based competitors: the U.S. company must either pay the high local rate, or if it 
attempts to reduce that tax it will instead trigger subpart F taxes at the U.S. rate, 
while the foreign competition will reduce their local taxes through perfectly normal 
transactions such as paying interest on a loan from an affiliate, and trigger no home 
country taxes by doing so.^^ Third, the belief that the level of foreign investment 
by U.S. companies will be significantly increased by the ability to reduce foreign 
taxes (while deferring U.S. taxation) is seriously antiquated in the context of the 
global economy. Such a belief may have been justified in the early 1960's, when the 
business reasons for U.S. companies to invest offshore were more limited. But today, 
when the principal opportunities for expansion are offered by foreign markets, so 
that U.S. -based companies derive an ever-greater proportion of their earnings from 
offshore activities, a presumption that foreign tax reduction will generate tax-moti- 
vated foreign investment is not merely out of touch with economic reality, but seri- 
ously harmful to the competitiveness of U.S. -based companies (as further discussed 
below). We submit that the at best highly theoretical global capital allocation bene- 
fits that may be achieved by subpart F's haphazard pursuit of CEN principles do 
not even come close to justifying the fiscal and competitive damage caused by deny- 


i^Local tax authorities may weii scrutinize the amount of outbound deductibie payments 
under transfer pricing and thin-capitaiization principies, but subject to that discipiine there is 
nothing inherentiy objectionabie about an aiiocation of functions and risks among affiiiates that 
gives rise to a deductibie payment in a high-tax jurisdiction. T reasury has not made a case that 
protection of the foreign tax base shouid in any event be a concern of the U.S. tax system. 



64 


ing U.S. companies the ability to reduce local taxes on the foreign businesses that 
are critical to their future prosperity and that of their workers. 

Accordingly, the NFTC believes that CEN is not a sound basis on which to build 
U.S. international tax policy for the coming century, and recommends that in rede- 
signing subpart F it be given no greater weight than it has been given in the case 
of other major international provisions such as the foreign tax credit. 

Competitiveness 

Accelerating the U.S. taxation of overseas operations (while permitting a foreign 
tax credit) means that a U.S. -based company will pay tax at the higher of the U.S. 
or foreign tax rate. If the local tax rate in the company of operation is less than 
the U.S. rate, this means that locally-based competitors will be more lightly taxed 
than their U.S. -based competition. Moreover, companies based in other countries 
will also enjoy a lighter tax burden, unless their home countries impose a regime 
that is as broad as subpart F, and none have to date done so. While the competitive 
impact of a heavier corporate tax burden is difficult to quantify, it is clear that a 
company that pays higher taxes suffers a disadvantage vis-a-vis its more lightly 
taxed competitors. That disadvantage may ultimately take the form of a decreased 
ability to engage in price competition, or to invest funds in the research and capital 
investment needed to build future profitability, or in the ability to attract capital 
by offering an attractive after-tax rate of return on investment. Whatever its ulti- 
mate form, however, it cannot be seriously questioned that a heavier corporate tax 
burden will harm a company's ability to compete. 

Competitiveness concerns were central to the debate when subpart F was enacted, 
even at a time when U.S. -based companies dominated the international market- 
place. This apparent dominance did not convince Congress that the competitive posi- 
tion of U.S. companies in international markets could be ignored. Thus, although 
the Administration originally proposed the acceleration of U.S. taxation of most for- 
eign-affiliate income, that proposal was firmly rejected by Congress based largely on 
concerns about its competitive impact. 21 

If competitiveness was a consideration when subpart F was enacted, there are 
compelling reasons to treat it as a far more serious concern today. 

Conformity with International Norms 

As will be further developed by my colleagues on the panel this morning, con- 
formity with international norms is important from a competitiveness standpoint, 
but it bears further emphasis here that our principal trading partners have consist- 
ently adopted rules that are less burdensome than subpart F. We do not dispute 
the fact that subpart F established a model for the taxation of offshore affiliates 
that has been imitated to a greater or lesser degree in the CFC legislation of many 
countries. But looking beyond the superficial observation that other countries have 
also enacted CFC rules, the detailed analysis in the Part One Report showed that 
in virtually every scenario relating to the taxation of active offshore operations, the 
United States imposes the most burdensome regime. Looking at any given category 
of income, it is sometimes possible to point to one or two countries whose rules ap- 
proach the U.S. regime, but the overall trend is overwhelmingly clear: U.S. -based 
multinationals with active foreign business operations suffer much greater home- 
country tax burdens than their foreign-based competitors. 

The observation that the U.S. rules are out of step with international norms, as 
reflected in the consistent practices of our major trading partners, supports the con- 
clusion that U.S. -based companies suffer a competitive detriment vis-a-vis their 
multinational competitors based in such countries as Germany and the United King- 
dom, and that the appropriate reform is to limit the reach of subpart F in a manner 
that is more consistent with the international norm. 

Some commentators have suggested that the competitive imbalance created by 
dissimilar international tax rules should be redressed not through any amelioration 
of the U.S. rules, but rather through a broadening of comparable foreign regimes. 
As a purely logical matter the point is valid— a see-saw can be balanced either by 
pushing down the high end or pulling up the low one. Flowever, the suggestion is 


^Congress has previously acknowledged the connection between corporate tax burden and 
competitiveness. For example, in connection with the enactment of the dual consolidated loss 
rules under Code section 1503(d) as part of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (the "'86 Act"), Congress 
observed that the ability of a foreign corporation to reduce its worldwide corporate tax burden 
through the use of a dual resident company enabled such corporations "to gain an advantage 
in competing in the U.S. economy against U.S. corporations.") oint Committee on Taxation, Gen- 
eral Explanation of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 (the '"86 Act General Explanation"), at 1065. 
^iSeePart One, Chapter 2. 



65 


completely Impractical for several reasons— conformity and competitive balance are 
far more likely to be achieved through a modernization of the U.S. rules. For one 
thing, since the U.S. rules are out of step with the majority, from the standpoint 
of legislative logistics alone It would be far easier to achieve conforming l^lslatlon 
In the United States alone, rather than In more than a dozen other countries. More 
fundamentally, there Is no particular reason to believe that numerous foreign 
sovereigns, having previously declined to adopt subpart F's broad taxation of active 
foreign businesses, will now suddenly have a change of heart and decide to follow 
the U.S. model. 

Further, recent OECD activities relating to "unfair tax competition" do not in- 
crease the likelihood of foreign conformity with subpart F’s treatment of active for- 
eign businesses. It is important to recognize that those activities relate to efforts 
by OECD member countries to limit the availability and usage of "tax haven" coun- 
tries and regimes. By imposing abnormally low rates of taxation, such countries or 
regimes may be viewed as improperly reducing other countries’ tax bases and dis- 
torting international investment decisions. The failure of a country to impose any 
type of CFC legislation can be viewed as offering a type of tax haven opportunity, 
since it may permit the creation of investment structures that avoid all taxation. 
Thus, the OECD has recommended that countries without CFC regimes "consider" 
enacting them. Flowever, in encouraging countries that have no CFC rules to enact 
them, the OECD has done nothing to advance the degree of conformity among exist- 
ing CFC regimes. Based on the materials that are publicly available, it does not ap- 
pear that the OECD has sought to address the lack of conformity between the high- 
ly-developed CFC rules of the United States and its major trading partners, particu- 
larly as they affect active foreign business operations. 

In conclusion, the U.S. rules under subpart F are well outside the international 
mainstream, and should be conformed more closely to the practices of our principal 
trading partners. We emphasize that, contrary to the suggestions of some com- 
mentators, we advocate only that the U.S. rules be brought back to the norm so as 
to achieve competitive parity— not that they be loosened further in an effort to con- 
fer competitive advantage. 

Minimizing Compliance and Administrative Burdens 

The NFTC applauds Treasury’s inclusion of administrability among the principal 
tax policy goals that will be considered in reforming our international tax system. 
Subpart F includes some of the most complex provisions in the Code, and it imposes 
administrative burdens that in many cases appear to be disproportionate to the 
amount of revenue at stake. There are several sources of complexity within subpart 
F, including the following: 

• The basic design and drafting of the subpart F regime was complex; 

• That initial complexity has been exacerbated over the years by numerous 
amendments, which have created an increasingly arcane web of rules, exceptions, 
exceptions to exceptions, etc; and 

• The subpart F rule require coordination with several other regimes that are 
themselves forbiddingly complex, including in particular the foreign tax credit and 
its limitations. 

The complexity of the rules long ago reached the point that the ability of tax- 
payers to comply, and the ability of the IRS to verify compliance, were both placed 
in serious jeopardy. The NFTC therefore urges that administrability concerns be 
given serious weight in the process of modernizing the tax system. To that end, we 
urge that the drafters of the Code and regulations consider not only the legal oper- 
ation of the rules, but also their practical implementation in terms of forms and rec- 
ordkeeping requirements. In addition, we urge that fuller consideration be given to 
the interaction of multiple complex regimes; it may be possible to read section 
904(d) and its implementing regulations and conclude that the provision can be un- 
derstood, and it may likewise be possible to read section 954 and its implementing 
regulations and conclude that that provision is also understandable, but when the 
two sets of rules must be read and implemented together, we submit that the limits 
of human understanding are rapidly exceeded. 

Meeting Revenue Needs in a Fair Manner 

The final policy criterion recently mentioned by Treasury is fairness. While no one 
could quarrel with the notion of fairness in tax policy, what fairness means in prac- 
tice is somewhat less clear. Our understanding is that Treasury is concerned about 
preservation of the corporate tax base: it would be unfair if U.S. -based multi- 
nationals could eliminate or significantly reduce their U.S. tax burden through the 
use of CFCs. This analysis presumably requires that a distinction be drawn between 



66 


those cases in which it is "fair" to acceierate the U.S. taxation of foreign affiiiates' 
income, and those in which it is not. 

There shouid begenerai agreement about two cases in which acceierated U.S. tax- 
ation is appropriate: first, where passive income is shifted into an offshore incor- 
porated pocketbook, and second, where income is inappropriateiy shifted offshore 
through abusive transfer pricing. The first case is weli -addressed by the extensive 
subpart F ruies concerning foreign personai holding company ("FPFIC") income, 
while the second case is addressed by extensive transfer pricing and related penalty 
rules which give the IRS ample authority to curb transfer pricing abuses. Thus, lit- 
tle needs to be done to advance fairness in these regards. 

Conversely, it should generally be agreed that it is not fair to accelerate U.S. tax- 
ation when a foreign subsidiary engages in genuine business activity in its foreign 
country. Unless Treasury is considering a radical redefinition of the scope of U.S. 
international taxing jurisdiction, the normal U.S. rules that impose U.S. tax only 
when income is repatriated should continue to be viewed as fair. 

This leaves a relatively narrow band of potential controversy: whether there are 
certain types of income that should be taxed currently even though they are associ- 
ated with active foreign business operations. Subpart F currently identifies a num- 
ber of such categories, and imposes current tax on them for reasons that are not 
always clear, but appear to be generally bound up with the notion of capital export 
neutrality, as advanced by Treasury at the time of the 1962 legislation. We have 
already stated our view that U.S. international tax policy needs a firmer foundation 
than the economic theorizing that underlies CEN, and would only add here that 
CEN should be of no relevance to the definition of fairness in international tax pol- 
icy. 

Finally, we conclude by noting that as a practical matter. Treasury concerns for 
the preservation of the corporate tax base and distributional ^uity in the U.S. tax 
system should not be exaggerated in the context of the relatively modest reforms 
that we advocate. We do not believe that the rationalizations of subpart F and the 
foreign tax credit to be proposed will alter historical patterns of offshore investment 
and profit repatriation (although they will improve our companies' ability to com- 
pete). Those patterns show that U.S. companies invest and operate overseas in re- 
sponse to market rather than tax considerations, that offshore operations do not 
substitute for investments in U.S. operations, that offshore investments in fact have 
a positive impact on U.S. employment, and that a significant percentage of offshore 
profits will be repatriated currently regardless of the applicable tax rules. Accord- 
ingly, while the distributional equity of the U.S. tax system is really not at stake 
here, the fairness of the system will be meaningfully improved by rationalizing and 
modernizing the taxation of U.S. companies that compete in the global marketplace. 

Conclusion 

The NFTC believes that the tax policy criteria of competitiveness, administra- 
bility, and international conformity all support a significant modernization of our 
international tax systemat this time, and that fairness considerations are at worst 
a neutral factor. Finally, even if Congress and the Administration are persuaded to 
given continued weight to the policy of capital export neutrality (which we do not 
believe to be justified), the countervailing considerations are sufficiently powerful to 
justify meaningful reform. 

Improvement of the U.S. International Tax System Is Necessary 

There is general agreement that the U.S. rules for taxing international income are 
unduly complex, and in many cases, quite unfair. Even before this hearing was an- 
nounced, a consensus had emerged among our members conducting business abroad 
that legislation is required to rationalize and simplify the international tax provi- 
sions of the U.S. tax laws. For that reason alone, if not for others, this effort by 
the Committee, which focuses the spotlight on U.S. international tax policy, is valu- 
able and should be applauded. 

The NFTC is concerned that this and previous Administrations, as well as pre- 
vious Congresses, have often turned to the international provisions of the Internal 
Revenue Code to find revenues to fund domestic priorities, in spite of the pernicious 
effects of such changes on the competitiveness of United States businesses in world 
markets. The Council is further concerned that such initiatives may have resulted 
in satisfaction of other short-term goals to the serious detriment of longer-term 
growth of the U.S. economy and U.S. jobs through foreign trade policies long con- 
sistent in both Republican and Democratic Administrations, including the present 
one. 



67 


The provisions of Subchapter N of the Internai Revenue Code of 1986 impose 
ruies on the operations of American business operating in the internationai context 
that are much different in important respects than those imposed by many other 
nations upon their companies. Some of these differences, noted in previous sections 
of this testimony, make U.S. -based business interests iess competitive in foreign 
markets when compared to those from our most significant trading partners: 

• The United States taxes woridwide income of its citizens and corporations who 
do business and derive income outside the territoriai iimits of the United States. Ai- 
though other important trading countries aiso tax the woridwide income of their na- 
tionais and companies doing business outside their territories, such systems gen- 
eraiiy are iess compiex and provide for "deferrai" subject to iess significant iimita- 
tions under their tax statutes or treaties than their U.S. counterparts. Importantiy, 
many of our trading partners have systems that more ciosely approximate "terri- 
toriai" systems of taxation, in which generaiiy oniy income sourced in the jurisdic- 
tion is taxed. 22 

• The United States has more compiex ruies for the iimitation of "deferrai" than 
any other major industriaiized country. In particuiar, we have determined that: (1) 
the economic poiicy justification for the current structure of subpart F has been sub- 
stantiaiiy eroded by the growth of a giobai economy: (2) the breadth of subpart F 
exceeds the internationai norms for such ruies, adverseiy affecting the competitive- 
ness of U.S. -based companies; and (3) the appiication of subpart F to various cat- 
egories of income that arise in the course of active foreign business operations 
shouid be substantiaiiy narrowed. 

• The U.S. foreign tax credit system is very compiex, particuiariy in the computa- 
tion of iimitations under the provisions of section 904 of the Code. Whiie the 
theoretic purity of the computations may be debatabie, the significant administra- 
tive costs of appiying and enforcing the ruies by taxpayers and the government is 
not. Systems imposed by other countries are in aii cases iess compiex. 

• The United States has more compiex ruies for the determination of U.S. and 
foreign source net income than any other major industriaiized country. In par- 
ticular, this is true with respect to the detailed rules for the allocation and appor- 
tionment of deductions and expenses. In many cases, these rules are in conflict with 
those of other countries, and where this conflict occurs, there is significant risk of 
double taxation. In some cases, U.S. rules by themselves cause double taxation, as 
for example, in one of the more significant anomalies, that of the allocation and ap- 
portionment of interest expense. 

• The current U.S. international tax system contains many other anomalies that 
make little sense when considered in the context of the matters we discuss today. 
Under present law, the treatment of subpart F income and the treatment of losses 
generated by subpart F-type activities are not symmetrical, creating many "heads- 
l-win-tails-you-lose" scenarios that are difficult to justify on a principled basis. In- 
come from subpart F activities is always recognized currently on the U.S. tax re- 
turn, but if those activities should instead generate losses they will generally be 
given no current U.S. tax effect. (As a threshold matter, we can't resist noting that 
this restrictive treatment of losses realized by CFCs, as compared with the treat- 
ment of losses realized by domestic affiliates, is a distinct departure from CEN prin- 
ciples, since it creates a genuine tax disincentive to carry out certain activities 
abroad. If the activities targeted by subpart F are carried out in a foreign corpora- 
tion, subpart F will accelerate any income but defer any losses. If those activities 
were instead placed in a U.S. corporation, both income and losses would be recog- 
nized for U.S. tax purposes. Since the likelihood of any given activity's producing 
losses rather than income is not generally known at the outset, the system creates 
a structural bias in favor of U.S. investment, rather than anything approaching neu- 
trality. But as we noted elsewhere, U.S. allegiance to CEN as a tax policy principle 
has been haphazard at best.) The rules carry this bias not only in their basic struc- 
ture, but also in the way they apply to carryover restrictions, consolidation of affil- 
iate losses, and the offsetting of losses among subpart F income categories. 

Similarly, other provisions in the Code apply in an asymmetrical way. This is true 
with respect to the rules relating to overall foreign losses. Other rules determine 
the composition of affiliated groups for the filing of consolidated returns and do not 
allow the inclusion of foreign corporations, except in very limited circumstances. 


22 We start from the fundamental assumption that the United States taxes the income of its 
citizens and domestic corporations on a worldwide basis. We do not attempt to address either 
the desirability or the implications of the adoption of a territorial system of taxation, an alter- 
native that could itself be the subject of substantial analysis and debate. Therefore, for this 
analysis the question is stated not as whether but as when should foreign income be taxed. 



68 


• The current U.S. Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT) system impcees numerous 
rules on U.S. taxpayers that seriously impede the competitiveness of U.S. based 
companies. For example, the U.S. AMT provides a cost recovery system that is infe- 
rior to that enjoyed by companies investing in our major competitor countries; addi- 
tionally, the current AMT 90-percent limitation on foreign tax credit utilization im- 
poses an unfair double tax on profits earned by U.S. multinational companies— in 
some cases resulting in a U.S. tax on income that has been taxed in a foreign juris- 
diction at a higher rate than the U.S. tax. 

As noted above, the United States system for the taxation of the foreign business 
of its citizens and companies is more complex than that of any of our trading part- 
ners, and perhaps more complex than that of any other country. 

That result is not without some merit. The United States has long believed in the 
rule of law and the self-assessment of taxes, and some of the complexity of its in- 
come tax results from efforts to more clearly define the law in order for its citizens 
and companies to apply it. Other countries may rely to a greater degree on govern- 
ment assessment and negotiation between taxpayer and government— traits which 
may lead to more government intervention in the affairs of its citizens, less even 
and fair application of the law among all affected citizens and companies, and less 
certainty and predictability of results in a given transaction. In some other cases, 
the complexity of the U.S. system may simply be ahead of development along simi- 
lar lines in other countries— many other countries have adopted an income tax simi- 
lar to that of the United States, and a number of these systems have eventually 
adopted one or more of the significant features of the U.S. system of taxing 
transnational transactions: taxation of foreign income, anti-deferral regimes, foreign 
tax credits, and so on. Flowever, after careful inspection and study, and as my col- 
league will discuss in greater detail, we have concluded that the United States sys- 
tem for taxation of foreign income of its citizens and corporations is far more com- 
plex and burdensome than that of all other significant trading nations, and far more 
complex and burdensome than what is necessitated by appropriate tax policy. 

The reluctance of others to follow the U.S. may in part also be attributable to rec- 
ognition that the U.S. system has required very significant compliance costs of both 
taxpayer and the Internal Revenue Service, particularly in the international area 
where the costs of compliance burdens are disproportionately higher relative to U.S. 
taxation of domestic income and to the taxation of international income by other 
countries. 

There is ample anecdotal evidence that the United States' system of taxing 
the foreign-source income of its resident multinationals is extraordinarily com- 
plex, causing the companies considerable cost to comply with the system, com- 
plicating long-range planning decisions, reducing the accuracy of the informa- 
tion transmitted to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and even endangering 
the competitive position of U.S. -based multinational enterprises.^^ 

Many foreign companies do not appear to face the same level of costs in their op- 
erations. The European Community Ruding Committee survey of 965 European 
firms found no evidence that compliance costs were higher for foreign source income 
than for domestic source income.^^ Lower compliance costs and simpler systems that 
often produce a more favorable result in a given situation are competitive advan- 
tages afforded these foreign firms relative to U .S. based companies. 

Taking into account individual as well as corporate-level taxes, a report by the 
Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) finds that the cost 
of capital for both domestic (8.0 percent) and foreign investment (8.8 percent) by 
U.S. -based companies is significantly higher than the averages for the other G-7 
countries (7.2 percent domestic and 8.0 percent foreign). The United States and 
J apan are tied as the least competitive G-7 countries for a multinational company 
to locate its headquarters, taking into account taxation at both the individual and 
corporate levels.^^ These findings have an ominous quality, given the recent spate 
of acquisitions of large U.S. -based companies by their foreign competitors. in fact, 
of the world's 20 largest companies (ranked by sales) in 1960, 18 were 
headquartered in the United States. By the mid-1990s, that number had dropped 
to 8. 


2^See Marsha Blumenthal and Joel B. Slemrod, 'The Compliance Cost of Taxing Foreign- 
Source Income: Its Magnitude, Determinants, and Policy Implications," in National Tax Policy 
in an International Economy: Summary of Conference Papers, (International Tax Policy Forum: 
Washington, D.C., 1994). 

24 /d. 

250ECD, Taxing Profits in a Global Economy: Domestic and International Issues (1991). 

2®Ses eg., testimony before the Committee on Finance, U.S. Senate, March 11, 1999. 



69 


Short of fundamental reform— a reform in which the United States federal income 
tax system is eliminated in favor of some other sort of system— there are many as- 
pects of the current system that could be reformed and greatly improved. These re- 
forms could significantly lower the cost of capital, the cost of administration, and 
therefore the cost of doing business for U.S. -based firms. 

In this regard, the NFTC strongly supports the International Tax Simplification 
for American Competitiveness Act of 1999, H.R. 2018, recently introduced by Mr. 
Houghton, and Mr. Levin, and Mr. SamJ ohnson, and joined by four other members: 
Mr. Crane, Mr. Merger, Mr. English, and Mr. Matsui. We congratulate them on 
their efforts to make these amendments. They address important concerns of our 
companies in their efforts to export American products and create jobs for American 
workers. 

The NFTC is preparing recommendations for broader reforms of the Code to ad- 
dress the anomalies and problems noted in our review of the U.S. international tax 
system, and would enjoy the opportunity to do so. 

Conclusion 

In particular, our study of the international tax system of the United States has 
led us so far to four broad conclusions: 

• U.S. -based companies are now far less dominant in global markets, and hence 
more adversely affected by the competitive disadvantage of incurring current home- 
country taxes with respect to income that, in the hands of a non-U .S. based compet- 
itor, is subject only to local taxation; and 

• U.S. -based companies are more dependent on global markets for a significant 
share of their sales and profits, and hence have plentiful non-tax reasons for estab- 
lishing foreign operations. 

• Changes in U.S. tax law in recent decades have on balance increased the tax- 
ation of foreign income. 

• The U.S. international tax system is much more complex and burdensome than 
that of our trading partners. 

• United States policy in r^ard to trade matters has been broadly expansionist 
for many years, but its tax policy has not followed suit. 

These two incompatible trends -decreasing U.S. dominance in global markets set 
against increasing U.S. taxation of foreign income -are not claimed by us to have 
any necessary causal relation. However, they strongly suggest that we must re- 
evaluate the balance of policies that underlie our international tax system. 

Again, the Council applauds the Chairman and the Members of the Committee 
for beginning the process of reexamining of the international tax system of the 
United States. These tax provisions significantly affect the national welfare, and we 
believe the Congress should undertake careful modification of them in ways that 
will enhance the participation of the United States in the global economy of the 21st 
Century. We would enjoy the opportunity to work with you and the Committee in 
further defining both the problems and potential solutions. The NFTC would hope 
to make a contribution to this important business of the Committee. 


Chairman Archer. Thank you, Mr. Murray. 

Mr. Morrison you may proceed. 

STATEMENT OF PHILIP D. MORRISON, PRINCIPAL AND DIREC- 
TOR, WASHINGTON INTERNATIONAL TAX SERVICES GROUP, 
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP.; ON BEHALF OF THE NATIONAL 
FOREIGN TRADE COUNCIL, INC. 

Mr. Morrison. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, distinguished Mem- 
bers of the Committee, and staff. My name is Phil Morrison. I am 
a principal with Deloitte & Touche and the director of Deloitte's 
Washington International Tax Services Group. I appear today on 
behalf of the National Foreign Trade Council. 

I am one of the co-authors of the N FTC's report on Subpart F, 
and we are currently working on a second report, as Mr. Murray 
said, on the foreign tax credit. My role with respect to both of these 



70 


reports is a comparative law one, to compare the U.S. regime with 
the comparable regimes of our major trading partners, specifically 
Canada, France, Germany, J apan, the Netherlands, and the United 
Kingdom. It is the large multinational corporations from these 
countries that form the chief competition of U.S. companies when 
they operate abroad. 

The Subpart F comparison that we completed illustrates that, in 
many important respects, the U.S. CFC provisions in Subpart F are 
much harsher than the rules of foreign countries' comparable re- 
gimes. While the foreign tax credit comparison is still a work in 
progress, preliminary results indicate that the use of the credit, 
U.S. limitations on the use of the credit, and expense allocation 
provisions, particularly interest expense, as has been mentioned 
this morning several times, are both more complex and more likely 
to result in double tax than comparable regimes in the foreign 
countries surveyed. This is particularly true with respect either to 
highly leveraged industries or those that produce significant for- 
eign losses during the startup years abroad, such as telecommuni- 
cations or power generation. 

The 1-page table that appears at the end of my written testimony 
summarizes several of the practical examples that we examined in 
the Subpart F report. As Example 1 shows, none of the countries 
surveyed eliminates deferral for active financial services income re- 
ceived by a CFC from unrelated persons. Such income is univer- 
sally recognized as active business income, and except in the 
United States, is not subject to the anti-defferal regime. Thus, if 
the temporary active financing provision enacted for this year were 
permitted to expire at the end of 1999, the United States would be 
clearly out of step with international norms. 

Examples 2, 3, and 4 in the table address the situations where 
an active business CFC receives dividends, in Example 2; interest, 
in Example 3; and royalties, in Example 4, from a related active 
business CFC resident in a different country. In each case, the 
United States is the only country that always denies deferral. 

Example 5 deals with foreign-based company oil -related income, 
that is, income from downstream activities, such as refining. 

Under Subpart F, the income of the CFC always would be attrib- 
uted to U.S. shareholders. I n the other countries, oil-related income 
is subject to the same rules as other types of active business in- 
come; only France would tax oil-related income. 

In Example 6, a CFC is engaged in buying and selling property 
that it does not manufacture. The property is bought from related 
parties outside the CFC's residence country and sold to unrelated 
parties, also outside the CFC's country. Again, because of tax dis- 
parities, Canadian, Dutch, German, and j apanese multinationals 
all have a competitive advantage over U.S. multinationals. 

Example 7 demonstrates that none of the countries examined 
have a section 956 surrogate. None require inclusion in income by 
a CFC shareholder for an increase in earnings invested in the 
home country of the CFC. 

These comparisons demonstrate that, due to Subpart F, U.S. 
multinationals operate at a competitive disadvantage abroad as 
compared to multinationals from our major trading partners. By 
pointing out this competitive disadvantage, and despite the chair- 



71 


man's invitation earlier, we don't mean to imply that the United 
States should inaugurate a "race to the bottom," a race to provide 
the most lenient tax rules in the United States. The comparison 
does demonstrate, however, quite clearly, that the rest of the devel- 
oped world has not joined the United States in a "race to the top." 
I n the 37 years since the enactment of Subpart F, while each juris- 
diction studied has approached CFC issues somewhat differently, 
none has adopted a regime as harsh as Subpart F. 

The U.S. anti-deferral rules are out of step with international 
norms. The relaxation of Subpart F, even to the highest common 
denominator among other countries' regimes, let alone to a more 
moderate middle ground, would help redress the competitive imbal- 
ance created by Subpart F without contributing to the feared race 
to the bottom. 

While we have yet to complete our study that will be part of the 
foreign tax credit report, our preliminary work reveals that the 
U.S. credit system, again, particularly with respect to interest allo- 
cation and the treatment of foreign losses, is also out of step with 
international norms. It appears that this too contributes to a com- 
petitive disadvantage for most U.S. multinationals. 

Thank you very much for your attention. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of Phillip D. Morrison, Principal and Director, Washington Inter- 
national Tax Services Group, Deloitte & Touche LLP; on behalf of the Na- 
tional Foreign Trade Council, Inc. 

Mr. Chairman, distinguished Members of the Committee, and staff: My name is 
Phii Morrison. I am a Principai with Deioitte & Touche LLP and the Director of 
Deioitte's Washington I nternationai Tax Services Group. I appear today on behaif 
of the Nationai Foreign Trade Counci i ("NFTC"). 

I . I NTRODUCTION 

I am co-author of the NFTC's report on subpart F^ and am currentiy working 
with others on an N FTC-sponsored report on the foreign tax credit. My roie with 
respect to these reports was to compare the United States subpart F and foreign 
tax credit regimes to the comparabie regimes of Canada, France, Germany, J apan, 
the Netheriands, and the United Kingdom. 

These countries were seiected for comparison because they constitute, together 
with the United States, the countries with the most corporations that are among 
the worid’s iargest 500 corporations. In the aggregate, these countries are home to 
412 of the 500 largest corporations in the world, ^ and it is large multinational cor- 
porations from these countries that are the competition for U.S. corporations that 
conduct business abroad. 

The subpart F comparison illustrates that, in many important respects, the U.S. 
controlled foreign corporation (CFC) provisions in subpart F are harsher than the 
rules in the foreign countries' comparable regimes.^ While the foreign tax credit 
comparison is still a work-in-progress, preliminary results indicate that the U.S. 
limitations on the use of the credit and expense allocation provisions are both more 
complex and more likely to result in double taxation than the foreign countries' com- 
parable regimes. These comparisons demonstrate that U.S. multinationals operate 
at a competitive disadvantage abroad as compared to multinationals from these 
other major jurisdictions. 

By pointing out this competitive disadvantage, we do not mean to imply that the 
United States should inaugurate a "race to the bottom," a race to provide the most 
lenient tax rules. The comparison does demonstrate, however, that the rest of the 
developed world has not joined the United States in a "race to the top." If the rest 


1 1 nternationai Tax Policy for the 21st Century: A Reconsideration of Subpart F, (March 25, 
1999). 

^Based upon the Financial Times 500, The Financial Times, J anuary 22, 1998. 

^For convenience, the anti-deferral regimes of all of the countries will be referred to as "CFC 
regimes." The actual names of the particular regimes vary. 



72 


of the developed world Is not going to join the United States and mimic the harsh- 
ness of subpart F and the complexity of our foreign tax credit rules, and history has 
shown that it will not, then it is incumbent upon Congress to carefully examine 
whether the resulting competitive imbalance is warranted for other policy reasons. 
Since, as the NFTC report demonstrates and as is summarized in the testimony of 
Messrs. Murray and Merrill, it is not, it would be sensible to relax the U.S. rules. 
This relaxation need not be a relaxation to the lowest common denominator but only 
to a more reasonable middle position among those adopted by our competitor coun- 
tries. 

The unstated assumption of those who raise the spectre of a race to the bottom, 
is that any significant deviation from the U.S. model that exists in another country 
indicates that the other government has yielded to powerful business interests and 
has enacted tax laws that are intended to provide its home-country based multi- 
nationals a distinct competitive advantage. It is seldom, if ever, acknowledged that 
the less stringent rules adopted in other countries might reflect a conscious but dif- 
ferent balance of the rival policy concerns of neutrality and competitiveness. 

The unstated assumption is incorrect. The CFC regimes enacted by the countries 
studied, for example, all were enacted in response to and after several years of scru- 
tiny of the U.S. subpart F r^ime. They reflect a careful study of the impact of sub- 
part F and, in every case, include some significant refinements of the U.S. rules. 
Each regime has been in place long enough for each respective government to study 
its operation and to conclude whether it is either too harsh or too liberal. While each 
jurisdiction has approached CFC issues somewhat differently, each has adopted a 
regime that, in at least some important respects, is materially less harsh than sub- 
part F . 

The proper inference to draw from this comparison is that the United States has 
tried to lead and, while many have followed, none has followed as far as the United 
States has gone. A relaxation of subpart F to even the highest common denominator 
among other countries’ CFC r^imes, let alone to a moderate middle ground, would 
help redress the competitive imbalance created by subpart F without contributing 
to a race to the bottom. 

II. Anti-Deferral or CFC Regimes— Generally 

Each of the countries examined in the NFTC study on subpart F has enacted a 
regime aimed at preventing taxpayers from obtaining deferral with respect to cer- 
tain types of income of, or income earned by certain types of, CFCs. At the same 
time, however, each country has balanced its anti-deferral concerns with the need 
not to interfere with the ability of domestic taxpayers to compete in genuine busi- 
ness activities in international markets. Resolution of the conflict between these two 
policy objectives typically hinges on the definition of what constitutes genuine for- 
eign business activity. Genuine business activity gains deferral; a lack of genuine 
business activity triggers the anti-deferral regime. As might be expected, the defini- 
tion of genuine foreign business activity varies widely. 

There are two primary ways in which countries prevent what they consider to be 
improper deferral of domestic taxation of foreign-source income earned by CFC's. A 
country may end deferral with respect to certain types of "tainted" income that it 
believes should not receive deferral. This transactional approach is the approach 
taken by the United States, Canada, and Germany. The alternative is to deem all 
income to be tainted when a CFC meets certain criteria (such as having a signifi- 
cant amount of tainted income or being located in certain jurisdictions). If the CFC 
does not meet the criteria for application of the regime, deferral is allowed for all 
of the income. This jurisdiction-based approach is taken by France, J apan, and the 
United Kingdom. Both approaches provide exemptions and modifications that tend 
to minimize the differences between them, however. The Netherlands, through a 
participation exemption, broadly exempts foreign income of CFCs. While the partici- 
pation exemption is denied for certain passive investments, liberal safe harbors pre- 
serve the exemption in most cases. 

Deferral is ended (and current inclusion achieved) by attributing either the taint- 
ed income or all income earned by the CFC to certain shareholders (usually those 
holding a minimum percentage ownership). Shareholders must include the attrib- 
uted income in their own income currently. CFC regimes that attribute only tainted 
income provide for exclusions that remove specific types of income from classes of 
income that normally are considered to be tainted. CFC regimes that attribute all 
income provide exemptions that remove all or certain income from attribution under 
the regime. 



73 


III. Specific Comparison of CFC Regimes with Respect to Particular Types 

OF I NCOME 


A. Active Financial Services I ncome 

Prior to 1986, a CFC's active financial services income was treated much the same 
as other types of active income. From 1986 until 1998, however, most income earned 
by a CFC of a U.S. financial services company was subject to tax when earned, ap- 
parently because Congress believed that deferral of such income provided excessive 
opportunities to route income through foreign countries to maximize tax benefits.^ 
The pre-1986 treatment for active financial services income was temporarily re- 
stored in 1997,® with the addition of rules to address the concerns that led to the 
repeal in 1986. 

The active financing income provision was revisited in 1998, in the context of ex- 
tending the provision for the 1999 tax year. Considerable changes were again made 
to address concerns relating to income mobility. The newly crafted provision is nar- 
rowly drawn. Under the 1999 active financing provision, a financial services busi- 
ness must have a substantial number of employees carrying on substantial manage- 
rial and operational activities in the foreign country. The activities must be carried 
on almost exclusively with unrelated parties, and the income from the activities 
must be recorded on the books and records of the CFC in the country where the 
income was earned and the activities were performed.^ In addition, an active bank- 
ing, financing, securities, or insurance business is painstakingly defined by statute 
and accompanying legislative history. The activities that may be taken into account 
in determining whether a business is active also are carefully delineated in the stat- 
ute and legislative history and substantially all of the CFC's activities must be com- 
prised of such activities as defined. 

As Example 1 on the attached table shows, none of the countries surveyed elimi- 
nates deferral for active financial services income received by a CFC from unrelated 
persons. Such income is universally recognized as active trade or business income. 
Thus, if the active financing provision were permitted to expire at the end of 1999, 
U.S. banks, insurers, and other financial services companies would find themselves 
at a significant competitive disadvantage in relation to all their major foreign com- 
petitors when operating outside the United States. 

Other major industrialized countries provide more lenient requirements for a CFC 
to be able to defer the taxation of its active financing income. German law merely 
requires that the income must be earned by a bank with a commercially viable office 
established in the CFC's jurisdiction and that the income results from transactions 
with customers. Germany does not require that the CFC conduct the activities gen- 
erating the income or that the income come from transactions with customers solely 
in the CFC's country of incorporation. The United Kingdom has an even less restric- 
tive deferral regime than Germany. The United Kingdom does not impose current 
taxation on CFC income as long as the CFC is engaged primarily in legitimate busi- 
ness activities primarily with unrelated parties. 

B. Dividends, interest, and Royalties from Active Earnings Received from Related 
Parties 

Example 2 on the attached table addresses the case where a CFC engaged in the 
active conduct of a trade or business receives dividends from a subsidiary CFC, in- 
corporated in a different country, also engaged in the active conduct of a trade or 
business. 

For U.S. tax purposes, the dividend income would be taxed to (attributed to) the 
CFC's U.S. shareholders. There would be no attribution to Canadian shareholders 
because dividends received from other foreign related parties out of active earnings 
are excluded from attribution. French shareholders would be exempt because the 
CFC is engaged in an active business. The dividend income would not be considered 
to be tainted income in Germany provided the parent CFC's holdings in the sub- 
sidiary CFC are commercially related to its own excluded active business operations 
{eg., CFC is also engaged in a similar manufacturing business) or if the dividends 


‘‘In each of the examples below, It Is assumed that a single home-country shareholder (a par- 
ent company) owns 100% of the CFC. Because of this, In each of the examples outlined below, 
the Dutch anti-deferral regime (exceptions from the Dutch exemption system) will not apply. 

oint Committee on Taxation, General Explanation of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, at 966 
(Comm. Print 1986). 

epub. L. No. 105-34, § 1175(a); H.R. Rep. No. 105-220, at 639-645 (1997)(Taxpayer Relief 
Act of 1997, Conference Report to H.R. 2014). 

^See H.R. Rep. No. 105-825, at 921 (1998)(Conference Report to H.R. 4328, section 1005 of 
the Omnibus Consolidated and Emergency Supplemental Appropriations Act of 1999). 



74 


would have been exempt if received directly by the German corporation. J apanese 
shareholders would be exempt because the business of CFG is conducted primarily 
in its country of incorporation (even if business were not conducted in that country, 
J apanese shareholders would be exempt if the main business of CFG were whole- 
sale, financial, shipping, or air transportation because it is engaged in business pri- 
marily with unrelated parties). U.K. shareholders would be exempt from attribution 
because the recipient CFG is principally engaged in an active business and the busi- 
ness operations of CFG are carried on principally with unrelated parties. 

Thus, in the case of an active business CFG that receives a dividend from a GFG 
subsidiary engaged in active business in a country other than the recipient GFG 
country, the United States is the only country that always attributes the income to 
GFG shareholders. While the foreign countries allow for situations where legitimate 
active businesses earn dividend income in the normal course of business, the United 
States puts its multinational corporations at a disadvantage by always taxing divi- 
dend income currently unless the extremely narrow same country exception applies. 

Example 3 assumes the same facts as Example 2 but deals with interest. Thus, 
in Example 3, a GFG engaged in an active trade or business pays interest to a par- 
ent or sister GFG in another country that is also engaged in an active business. 

Ganadian, French, J apanese, and U.K. GFGs are allowed to lend money to active 
business subsidiaries without being penalized by the GFG rules. German GFGs are 
allowed to lend money to foreign active business subsidiaries as long as the loan 
is long-term and the money is borrowed by the GFG on foreign capital markets. U.S. 
multinational corporations generally are not able to provide a loan from a GFG en- 
gaged in active business with an excess of cash to a subsidiary of the GFG that is 
engaged in active business with a need for cash, without incurring current U.S. tax- 
ation on the interest paid from the subsidiary to the GFG. The only time U.S. multi- 
nationals are able to provide such a loan without current U.S. taxation is if both 
the GFG and the subsidiary are in the same country. Although income used to pay 
the interest is earned in an active foreign business by a party related to the U.S. 
multinational and the income is reinvested in an active foreign business, the U.S. 
rules still tax the income currently. 

Once again, U.S. multinationals are at a competitive disadvantage in the inter- 
national marketplace. This situation, like the dividend example in Example 2, ham- 
strings U.S. multinationals groups from redeploying foreign earnings of their GFG 
group from jurisdiction to jurisdiction without triggering an end to deferral. 

Example 4 on the attached table is identical to Examples 2 and 3 except that it 
deals with royalties. Royalties are paid by an active GFG in one country to an active 
GFG in another country. 

The Ganadian GFG rules provide an exception that deems amounts paid to a GFG 
by a related foreign corporation to be active business income if the amount is de- 
ductible in computing the income of the payer corporation. Therefore, the royalty 
payments would be excluded from attribution. Income would not be attributed to 
French shareholders or J apanese shareholders because GFG is principally engaged 
in an active business carried on in its residence country. Germany does not consider 
royalty income to be passive tainted income provided the GFG has used its own re- 
search and development activities without the participation of German shareholders 
or an affiliated person to create the patents, trademarks, know-how, or similar 
rights from which the income is derived. U.K. shareholders would be exempt from 
attribution because GFG is principally engaged in an active business and the busi- 
ness operations of GFG are carried on principally with unrelated parties. 

Only members of U.S. multinational groups cannot pay royalties to a GFG that 
actively develops intangibles without triggering an anti-deferral regime. Even if 
earned in an active business, royalties from related parties are subpart F income. 
In each of the competitor countries' cases, such royalties are not tainted income or 
otherwise attributable to the GFG's shareholders. 

C. Oil-Rdated I ncome 

In 1982, the United States expanded subpart F income to include "foreign base 
company oil-related income."® Gongress claimed that, because of the fungible nature 
of oil and because of the complex structures involved, oil income is particularly suit- 
ed to tax haven type operations.® Under the changes made foreign base company 
oil-related income was defined as foreign oil-related income other than: (1) income 
derived from a source within a foreign country in connection with oil or gas ex- 
tracted from an oil or gas well located in that foreign country: or (2) income from 


®Pub. L. No. 97-248, §212(a). 

oint Committee on Taxation, Generai Expianation of the Revenue Provisions of the Tax Eq- 
uity and Fiscai Responsibiiity Act of 1982, at 72. 



75 


oil, gas, or a primary product of oil or gas that is sold by the foreign corporation 
for use or consumption within the foreign country or is loaded in such country on 
a vessel or aircraft as fuel for such vessel or aircraft. 

Example 5 compares the U.S. rules with respect to foreign base company oil-re- 
lated income to those applicable to CFCs of companies incorporated in our compet- 
itor countries. Example 5 assumes that CFC operates a refinery in country X. CFC 
earns oil-related income in X from purchasing oil extracted from a country other 
than X and sells the refined product for consumption outside of X. CFC's sales are 
primarily conducted with unrelated parties. 

Under subpart F, the income of CFC would be attributed to its U.S. shareholders. 
None of the other countries have singled out oil-related income as a type of income 
that should be tainted. In the other countries, oil-related income is subject to the 
same rules as other types of active business income. In this example, however, in- 
come would be attributed to French shareholders because CFC makes sales pri- 
marily outside the CFC country. I n the other countries examined, the income would 
not be taxed. 

Thus, U.S. -based and French-based multinational oil companies are, in these cir- 
cumstances, at a competitive disadvantage in relation to oil companies from the 
other compared countries with respect to income earned from downstream activities. 
Only for U.S. and French multinational oil companies will income from an active 
downstream business conducted in a subsidiary in a foreign jurisdiction be attrib- 
uted to shareholders. In each of the other surveyed jurisdictions, such income would 
be entitled to deferral or exemption. 

D. Base Company Sales Income 

For U.S. tax purposes, foreign base company sales income generally is income de- 
rived from the purchase and re-sale of property that is not manufactured by the 
CFC where either the seller or the buyer is related to the CFC. 

In Example 6, CFC is engaged in the buying and selling of personal property that 
it does not manufacture. The property is bought from related parties outside CFC's 
residence country and sold to unrelated parties outside CFC's residence country. 

The income of CFC would be attributed to U.S. shareholders. In Canada, CFC's 
income would be exempt from attribution because the income is earned in active 
business. The income would be attributed to French shareholders because the busi- 
ness is conducted primarily outside the CFC country. Germany's exemption for com- 
mercial activities does not generally apply when goods are acquired by the CFC 
from, or sold to, a related German party. If the goods are both purchased and sold 
outside Germany, however, the sales income is exempt, even if the goods are sold 
to a related party and the German shareholder of the CFC actively participates. In 
this example, therefore, there would be no attribution. To qualify for exemption 
from attribution, a Japanese sales company must conduct its business primarily 
with unrelated parties. To be conducting business primarily with unrelated parties 
for J apanese purposes, the CFC must either purchase more than 50 percent of its 
goods from unrelated parties or sell more than 50 percent of its goods to unrelated 
parties. The income of CFC would not be attributed to J apanese shareholders be- 
cause more than 50 percent of the goods are sold to unrelated parties. A CFC con- 
trolled by U.K. shareholders is subject to the CFC regime and income is attributed 
to its shareholders if the main business of the CFC is dealing in goods for delivery 
to or from the United Kingdom or to or from related parties. The main business of 
the CFC is dealing in goods from related parties, so the income of the CFC would 
be attributed to its shareholders. 

Canadian, German, and J apanese multinationals have a competitive advantage 
over U.S. multinationals when goods bought from related parties outside the home 
and CFC countries are sold to unrelated parties outside the home and CFC coun- 
tries. 

E. Increase in Investment in the Home Country 

In Example 7, CFC has nothing invested in home country property at the begin- 
ning of the year. CFC purchases tangible property located in the home country for 
use in its business during the year. CFC has earnings and profits in excess of the 
value of the property. 

Under subpart F, U.S. shareholders would have to include the entire amount in- 
vested by the CFC in U.S. property for the taxable year in its income.^i None of 
the other countries studied have a provision that requires an inclusion in income 
by the CFC shareholders for an increase in earnings invested by the CFC in the 


“I.R.C. § 954(g). 

III.R.C. §§ 951(a)(1)(B), 956(a). 



76 


home country. Canada and Germany have decided that, if the income earned from 
that property invested in the home country is of a type for which deferral should 
not be granted, then it is sufficient to subject the income from that investment to 
the anti-deferral regime (note that the CFC itself may be subject to tax in the home 
country because the income may be sourced in the home country). France, J apan, 
and the United Kingdom do not even subject the income from such property to tax 
under their anti-deferral regime, even if the income is of a type for which deferral 
should not be granted, if the CFC is engaged primarily in active business. 

IV. Conclusion— Anti-Deferral or CFC Regimes 

Anti-deferral or CFC regimes have been enacted in each of the countries studied. 
Most were enacted in the two decades following the enactment of subpart F in the 
United States. It is possible to argue that other countries, albeit slowly, have fol- 
lowed the United States' lead. But no country has followed our lead, even after 37 
years, nearly as far as we have gone. The United States clearly imposes the most 
burdensome regime. Looking at any given category of income, it is sometimes pos- 
sible to point to one or two countries whose rules approach the U.S. regime, but the 
overall trend is overwhelmingly clear: U.S. -based multinationals with active foreign 
business operations suffer much greater home-country tax burdens than their for- 
eign-based competitors. 

The observation that the U.S. rules are out of step with international norms, as 
reflected in the consistent practices of our major trading partners, supports the con- 
clusion that U.S. -based companies suffer a competitive disadvantage vis-a-vis their 
multinational competitors based in other countries. The appropriate reform is to 
limit the reach of subpart F in a manner that is more consistent with the inter- 
national norm. 

Some commentators have suggested that the competitive imbalance created by 
dissimilar international tax rules should be redressed not through any amelioration 
of the U.S. rules, but rather through a broadening of comparable foreign regimes. 
As a purely logical matter the point is valid— a see-saw can be balanced either by 
pushing down the high end or pulling up the low one. Flowever, the suggestion is 
completely impractical for several reasons. For one thing, since the U.S. rules are 
out of st^ with the majority, from the standpoint of legislative logistics alone it 
would be far easier to achieve conforming legislation in the United States alone, 
rather than in more than a dozen other countries. More fundamentally, there is no 
particular reason to believe that numerous foreign sovereigns, having previously de- 
clined to adopt subpart F's broad taxation of active foreign businesses despite 37 
years of the U.S. setting the example, will now suddenly have a change of heart 
and decide to follow the U.S. model. Clearly our competitor jurisdictions have stud- 
ied our subpart F and chosen a somewhat less harsh balance between competitive- 
ness and neutrality. It is unwarranted and naive to think they have made this 
choice without careful consideration or solely in an effort to maintain a competitive 
advantage for "their" multinationals. 

Further, recent OECD activities relating to "unfair tax competition" do not in- 
crease the likelihood of foreign conformity with subpart F's treatment of active for- 
eign businesses. It is important to recognize that those activities relate to efforts 
by OECD member countries to limit the availability and usage of "tax haven" coun- 
tries and regimes. The failure of a country to impose any type of CFC legislation 
can be viewed as offering a type of tax haven opportunity, since it may permit the 
creation of investment structures that avoid all taxation. Thus, the OECD has rec- 
ommended that countries without any CFC regime "consider" enacting them. Flow- 
ever, in encouraging countries that have no CFC rules to enact them, the OECD 
has in no way endorsed an effort to promote conformity among existing CFC re- 
gimes, let alone conformity with the U.S. system. 

In conclusion, the U.S. rules under subpart F are well outside the international 
mainstream, and should be conformed more closely to the practices of our principal 
trading partners. We emphasize that, contrary to the suggestions of some com- 
mentators, we advocate only that the U.S. rules be brought back to the norm so as 
to achieve competitive parity— not that they be loosened further in an effort to con- 
fer competitive advantage. 


V. Foreign Tax Credit 

As mentioned above, the NFTC foreign tax credit study is a work-in-progress. 
While I am unable to report definitive conclusions from the comparative law portion 
of that study, we are far enough along to make some general observations. First, 
while superficially less complex, exemption or territorial systems have the potential 
for significant complexity. Because, under an exemption or territorial system, for- 



77 


eign source income is exempt, sourcing ruies are as important and susceptibie of as 
much pressure as under a foreign tax credit system with a compiex iimitation. Simi- 
iariy, because income of foreign subsidiaries is exempt under a territoriai system, 
transfer pricing ruies can come under significant pressure. Finaiiy, most jurisdic- 
tions with exemption or territoriai systems find the need to not exempt certain types 
of passive income. Thus, there may be a foreign tax credit system just for this type 
of income, as weli as an anti-deferrai or CFC regime. 

Second, no other country studied iimits averaging between high-and iow-tax coun- 
tries with either the severity or the compiexity of the U.S. foreign tax credit basket 
system. Even theU.K., with a juridicai per item iimitation mitigates the compiexity 
and harshness of such a ruie by permitting the utiiization of so-caiied "mixer" com- 
panies. Other credit countries, such as J apan, adopt a straight-forward overaii iimi- 
tation such as the United States has had in the past. 

Third, no country studied appears to have anywhere near as compiex an expense 
aiiocation regime, particuiariy with respect to interest, as the United States'. The 
U.S. interest aiiocation ruies appear, based on our preiiminary work, to be vastiy 
more compiex and unfair than the expense aiiocation ruies appiicabie in any of the 
other jurisdictions. 

Finaiiy, none of the other jurisdictions studied appear to have a ruie such as the 
U.S. overaii foreign ioss ("OFL") recapture ruie. That ruie, which causes U.S. muiti- 
nationais with OFLs to recapture future foreign source income as domestic income, 
essentiaiiy eiiminates the benefit of a foreign tax credit in industries such as teie- 
communi cations and power generation where significant capitai outiays in eariy 
years of foreign operations produce significant eariy years iosses. 

In sum, our preiiminary findings show that, iike subpart F, the U.S. foreign tax 
credit regime pieces U .S. muitinationais at a competitive disadvantage versus muiti- 
nationais from the other countries studied. This is particuiariy true with respect to 
either heaviiy ieveraged industries or those that produce significant foreign iosses 
in the eariy years of operation abroad. 

VI. Overall Conclusion 

The U.S. subpart F and foreign tax credit regimes are both more compiex and 
harsher than the comparabie regimes in the six other countries studied. The higher 
administrative cost in deaiing with this compiexity, together with the higher domes- 
tic tax on foreign-earned income, generaiiy pieces U.S. muitinationais at a competi- 
tive disadvantage versus muitinationais based in these other countries. 



78 



Chairman Archer. Thank you, Mr. Morrison. 

Our next witness is Mr. Merrill. 

STATEMENT OF PETER R. MERRILL, PRINCIPAL, WASHINGTON 
NATIONAL TAX SERVICES, AND DIRECTOR, NATIONAL ECO- 
NOMIC CONSULTING GROUP, PRICE WATERHOUSECOOPERS, 
LLP; ON BEHALF OF THE NATIONAL FOREIGN TRADE COUN- 
CIL, INC. 

Mr. Merrill. Thank you, Mr. Chairman and the Committee, for 
the opportunity to testify before you this morning. I am director of 
the National Economic Consulting Group at Pricewater house- 




79 


CcxDpers here in Washington. I am appearing today in my capacity 
as a member of the drafting group of the NFTC study on Subpart 
F. 

I would like to cover today four points. First, how has the global 
economy changed in the 37 years since Congress enacted the Sub- 
part F regime? Second, is foreign investment by U.S. companies 
harmful to the domestic economy? Third, does the competitiveness 
of U.S.-headquartered companies matter for our national economic 
well-being? Fourth, how does U.S. tax policy affect the competitive- 
ness of U.S. companies? 

I am going to conclude my testimony today by summarizing some 
of the results from a new study that PricewaterhouseCoopers has 
just completed, which looks at the question that the chairman 
raised in announcing the hearing, which is are American compa- 
nies the losers in recent cross-quarter mergers? 

In 1962 when Subpart F was enacted, the United States was on 
the gold standard, exchange rates were fixed, and the United 
States was the world's largest capital exporter. Treasury was con- 
cerned about keeping capital in the United States, preventing it 
from flowing out. That was one of the main rationales for the Sub- 
part F regime, adopted in 1962— to keep the capital at home. 
Today, of course, the gold standard is gone. The dollar floats. The 
United States is the world's largest capital importer. There is obvi- 
ously hardly any reason that we need tax legislation designed to 
keep the capital at home. 

The world has become a much more competitive place for U.S. 
multinationals. In 1967, U.S. multinationals had a 50 percent mar- 
ket share in cross-border investment. Today, they have a 25 per- 
cent share. As Mr. Murray has mentioned, in 1960, 18 of the 20 
largest corporations in the world were headquartered in the United 
States. But, today, just eight are headquartered in the United 
States. Obviously, U.S. multinationals face much heightened com- 
petition compared to what they did in 1962. 

Second, does U.S. foreign direct investment abroad help or hurt 
the U.S. economy? Obviously, some have argued that U.S. invest- 
ment abroad comes at the expense of the domestic economy. Under 
this view. Subpart F and various rules that penalize U.S. invest- 
ment abroad are necessary to protect U.S. workers. I will quote to 
the Committee a recent study by the OECD. It is a very good 
study. It is called "Open Markets Matter." The OECD found that 
domestic firms and their employees, "generally gain from the free- 
dom of businesses to invest overseas. As with trade, foreign direct 
investment generally creates net benefits for the host and the 
source countries alike." 

A few other points about U.S. investment abroad. First, compa- 
nies that don't invest abroad pay 5 to 15 percent lower wages than 
similar U.S. multinational companies. 

Second, U.S. multinationals account for $407 billion of exports in 
1996. That is in two-thirds of all exports a U.S. multinational is in- 
volved in the export. 

Third, the OECD study that I mentioned before found that for 
each dollar of outward investment, there is an additional $1.70 of 
contribution to the trade balance, a net trade surplus of $1.70. U.S. 
multinationals certainly are a key component of exports. 



80 


Companies that invest abroad invest to do so for foreign markets. 
You heard in the earlier panel, that over 90 percent of what U.S. 
companies abroad sell is destined for foreign markets, not the U.S. 
market. 

Thus, international competitiveness of U.S. multinationals mat- 
ter for the domestic economy. Laura Tyson, former Chair of the 
Council of Economic Advisors in this administration and the former 
director of the National Economic Council said, in an article in the 
American Prospect Magazine, Yes, it is important to have head- 
quarters of companies here. She pointed out that 70 percent of the 
assets and jobs of U.S. multinationals are located in the United 
States and 88 percent of the R&D they perform is located in the 
United States. U.S.-headquartered companies overwhelmingly have 
U.S. leadership and they source the supplies for the products they 
make from U.S. suppliers predominately. 

Last, why do we think that it is important that we have a com- 
petitive U.S. tax policy? If the United States taxes foreign-source 
income of its multinationals more heavily than other countries, 
then ultimately the world market share of U.S. multinationals will 
decline. This can happen in a variety of ways. It can happen 
through cross-border mergers. It can happen because U.S. individ- 
uals invest in foreign mutual funds. The portfolio capital that 
moves to foreign-headquartered companies avoids the U.S. cor- 
porate tax rules. 

I would like to in the last minute call your attention to a recent 
PricewaterhouseCoopers' study. We just released this today. It is a 
summary of large U.S. cross-border mergers and acquisitions for 
1998. We looked at all of the mergers and acquisitions that were 
completed in 1998 involving transactions of over $500 million. 
What we found— it is in the study— is very striking. 

We found that a net of $127 billion of U.S. assets moved from 
U.S.-headquartered companies to foreign-headquartered companies 
in 1998, that is, $127 billion moved out of U.S. -headquartered com- 
panies. Future foreign investment by these companies will generate 
income that will not ever be taxed by the Unit^ States. Out to be, 
out of 51 transactions, 34 were acquisitions of U.S. companies by 
foreigners, only 17 were acquisitions of foreign companies by U.S. 
companies. Of the $175 billion of deals, there were $151 billion 
where foreigners acquired U.S. companies. Only $24 billion were 
U.S. acquir^ foreign companies. So you can see that clearly there 
is a net movement of $127 billion of U.S. assets out of U.S.- 
headquartered companies. 

I will conclude my testimony there and take questions. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of Peter R. Merrill, Principal, Washington, National Tax Serv- 
ices, and Director, National Economic Consulting Group, 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP; on behalf of the National Foreign Trade 
Council, Inc. 


I . I NTRODUCTION 

I am Peter Merrill, a principal in the Washington National Tax Services office of 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, and director of the National Economic Consulting 
group. I am testifying today as a member of the drafting group of a recent National 
Foreign Trade Council report on International Tax Policy for the 21st Century: A 



81 


Reconsideration of Subpart F.i This report is a comprehensive iegai and economic 
review of the U.S. anti-deferrai ruiesthat have appiied to U.S. muitinationai compa- 
nies since they were enacted by Congress in 1962. 

This testimony^ briefiy addresses four key economic issues that are discussed 
more fuiiy in the NFTC report: 

1. Flow has the global economy changed during the 37 years since subpart F was 
enacted? 

2. Isforeign investment by U.S. companies harmful to the domestic economy? 

3. Does the competitiveness of U.S. -headquartered companies matter for U.S. well 
being? 

4. Flow does U.S. tax policy affect the competitiveness of U.S. multinational com- 
panies? 


II. Global Economic Change Since 1962 

In 1962, the Kennedy Administration proposed to subject the earnings of U .S. con- 
trolled foreign corporations to current U.S. taxation. At that time, the dollar was 
tied to the gold standard, exchange rates were fixed, and the United States was the 
world’s largest capital exporter. These capital exports drained Treasury's gold re- 
serves, and made it more difficult for the Administration to stimulate the economy. 
Thus the proposed repeal of deferral was intended by Treasury Secretary Douglas 
Dillon to serve as a form of capital control, reducing the outflow of U.S. investment 
abroad. 

The compromise adopted by Congress, in response to the Kennedy Administra- 
tion's proposal, was shaped by the global economic environment of the early 1960s— 
a world economy that has changed almost beyond recognition as the 20th century 
draws to a close. The gold standard was abandoned during the Nixon Administra- 
tion, and the exchange rate of the dollar is no longer fixed. The United States is 
now the world's largest importer of capital, with net capital outflows of over $200 
billion per year. 

National economies are becoming increasingly integrated. Globalization is being 
fueled both by technological change of almost unimaginable rapidity, and a world- 
wide reduction in tariff and regulatory barriers to the free flow of goods and capital. 

Foreign Direct I nvestment 

In the 1960s, the United States completely dominated the global economy, ac- 
counting for over 50 percent of worldwide cross-border direct investment, and 40 
percent of worldwide Gross Domestic Product (GDP). I n 1960, of the world's 20 larg- 
est corporations (ranked by sales), 18 were headquartered in the United States (see 
Table 1). 

Three decades later, the United States confronts far greater competition in global 
markets. As of the mid-1990s, the U.S. economy accounted for about 25 percent of 
the world's foreign direct investment and GDP, and just 8 of the world's 20 largest 
corporations were headquartered in the United States. The 21,000 foreign affiliates 
of U.S. multinationals now compete with about 260,000 foreign affiliates of multi- 
nationals headquartered in other nations.^ The declining dominance of U.S.- 
headquartered multinationals is dramatically illustrated by the recent acquisitions 
of Amoco by British Petroleum, Chrysler by Daimler-Benz, AirTouch by Vodafone, 
Bankers Trust by Deutsche Bank, and Transamerica by AEGON. These mergers 
have the effect of converting U.S. multinationals to foreign-headquartered compa- 
nies. 


^National Foreign Trade Council, Inc. International Tax Policy for the 21st Century: A Recon- 
sideration of Subpart F , March 25, 1999, Washington, D.C. 

^This statement draws heavily on Chapter 5 and 6 and of the NFTC report. 

^UNCTAD, World Investment Report, 1997. 



82 


Bankers Trust by Deutsche Bank, and Transamerica by AEGON. These 
mermrs have the effect of converting U.S. multinationals to foreign- 
headquartered companies. 


Table 1.— The United States and the World Economy: 1960s and 1990s 


U.S. International Trade (percent of GDP)' 

I 1960-69 r~ 

1990-97 

Merchandise exports 

3.9% 

7.5% 

Merchandise imports 

3.2% 

9.7% 

Trade openness: merchandise exports plus imports 

• 7.1% 

i /.2% 

U.S. International Investment Position (S billions)^ 

1 1980 1 

1997 

Net international investment position^ 

393 

-1,224 

Direct investment; 



U.S. investment abroad 

396 

1,024 

Foreign investment in the U.S. 

126 

752 

Private portfolio investment in securities: 



U.S. investment abroad 

62 

1,446 

Foreign investment in the U.S, 

90 

2,240 

VS. Corporate Profits^ 

1 1960-69 

1990-97 

Share from foreign sources 

7.5% 

17.7% 

Rate of return on assets (earnings before interest and taxes)’ 

[ 1985 P 

1995 

Foreign subsidiaries minus domestic corporations 

5.1% 

2.2% 

Gross Domestic Product (GDP)* 

1 1965 1 

1996 

U.S. share of world total 

39.9% 

25.7% 

Population 

1 1965 1 

1997 

U.S. share of world total 

5.8% 

4.6% 

Exports* 

1 i960 P 

1996 

U.S. share of world total 

16,6% 

1 1 .9% 

Direct Investment Stock^ 

1 1967 P 

1996 

U.S. share of world outw'ard direct investment stock 

50.4% 

25.0% 

World's 20 Largest Corporations (ranked by sales)* 

I i9M) P 

1996 

Number of U.S. -headquartered corporations 

18 

8 


‘Survey of Cun-enl Business, U.S. Department of Commerce, July 1998. 

‘Survey of Current Business, U.S. Department of Commerce, July 1998. Direct investment at current cost. 

■‘includes all private and official government assets. 

^Suiv'ey of Current Busmess, U.S. Department of Commerce, August 1998. 

‘World Economic Outlook, Internationa! Monetary Fund, 1997. 

‘international Financial Statistics, International Monetary Fund, March 1998. 

'World Investment Report, United Nations Conference on Trade and Development, 1997 edition. 

‘Hoover's Handbook of World Business, 1998 edition. 

‘U.S. Department of Commerce data, PricewaterhouseCoopers calculations. 

Ironically, despite the intensified competition in world markets, the U.S. economy 
is far more d^endent on foreign direct investment than ever before. In the 1960s, 
foreign operations averaged just 7.5 percent of U.S. corporate net income; by con- 
trast, over the 1990-97 period, foreign earnings represented 17.7 percent of all U.S. 
corporate net income. A recent study of the Standard and Poors' 500 corporations 
(the 500 largest publicly-traded U.S. corporations) finds that sales by foreign sub- 
sidiaries have increased from 25 percent of worldwide sales in 1985 to 34 percent 
in 1997.4 


4|BES International based on Disdosure data as reported in the Wall Stre^ J ournal, "U.S. 
Firms Global Progress isTwo-Edged," August 17, 1998. 



83 


TheU.S. Market 

In 1962, U.S. companies focused manufacturing and marketing strategies in the 
United States, which at the time was the iargest consumer market in the worid. 
U.S. companies generaiiy couid achieve economies of scaie and rapid growth seliing 
exciusiveiy into the domestic market. In the early 1960's, foreign competition in U.S. 
markets was inconsequential. 

The picture is now completely changed. First, U.S. companies now face strong 
competition at home. Since 1980, the stock of foreign direct investment in the 
United States has increased by a factor of six (from $126 billion to $752 billion in 
1997), and $20 of every $100 of direct cross-border investment flows into the United 
States. Foreign companies own approximately 14 percent of all U.S. non-bank cor- 
porate assets, and over 27 percent of the U.S. chemical industry.^ Moreover, imports 
have tripled as a share of GDP from an average of 3.2 percent in the 1960s to an 
average of over 9.6 percent over the 1990-97 period (seeTable 5-1). 

Second, foreign markets frequently offer greater growth opportunities than the do- 
mestic market. For example, from 1986 to 1997, foreign sales of S&P 500 companies 
grew 10 percent a year, compared to domestic sales growth of just 3 percent annu- 
ally.® 

From the perspective of the 1960s, there was little apparent reason for U.S. com- 
panies to direct resources to penetrating foreign markets. U.S. companies frequently 
could achieve growth and profit levels that were the envy of their competitors with 
minimal foreign operations. By contrast, in today's economy, competitive success fre- 
quently requires U.S. companies to execute global marketing and manufacturing 
strategies. 

I nternational Trade 

Over the last three decades, the U.S. share of the world's export market has de- 
clined. In 1960, one of every six dollars of world exports originated from the United 
States. By 1996, the United States supplied only one of every nine dollars of world 
export sales. Despite a 30-percent loss in world export market share, the U.S. econ- 
omy depends on exports to a much greater degree. During the 1960s, only 3.2 per- 
cent of national income was attributable to exports, compared to 7.5 percent over 
the 1990-97 period. 

Foreign subsidiaries of U.S. companies play a critical role in boosting U.S. ex- 
ports— by marketing, distributing, and finishing U.S. products in foreign markets. 
U.S. Commerce Department data show that in 1996 U.S. multinational companies 
were involved in 65 percent of all U.S. merchandise export sales.^ The importance 
of foreign operations also is indicated by the fact that U.S. industries with a high 
percentage of investment abroad are the same industries that export a large per- 
centage of domestic production.® 

Foreign Portfolio Investment 

In 1962, policymakers would scarcely have taken note of cross-border flows of 
portfolio investment. As recently as 1980, U.S. portfolio investment in foreign pri- 
vate sector securities amounted to only $62 billion— 85 percent less than U.S. direct 
investment abroad. By 1997, U.S. portfolio investment abroad had increased 2,230 
percent to over $1.4 trillion— 40 percent more than U.S. direct investment abroad. 
Similarly, foreign portfolio investment in U.S. private securities increased from $90 
billion in 1980 to over $2.2 trillion in 1997 (seeTable 1). 

Institutional changes have greatly facilitated foreign portfolio investments, includ- 
ing the growth in mutual funds that invest in foreign securities and the listing of 
foreign corporations on U .S. exchanges. According to the New York Stock Exchange, 
the trading volume in shares of foreign firms totaled $485 billion in 1997, or over 
eight percent of total NYSE trading volume.® Market capitalization of foreign firms 
listed on the NYSE topped $3 trillion in 1998. 

The Administration's 1962 proposal to terminate deferral for U.S. CFCs was moti- 
vated in large part by a desire to ensure that foreign direct investment not flow off- 
shore for tax reasons. At the time, U.S. direct investment abroad exceeded private 
portfolio investment by a factor of 6.5 to 1; thus, it is not surprising that the Admin- 


^PricewaterhouseCoopers calculations based on Department of Commerce and I RS data. 
sWall Street) ournal, Op. cit. 

^U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis, Surve/ of Current Business, September 1998. 

^Robert E. Lipsey, "Outward Direct Investment and the U.S. Economy," in M. Feldstein, J . 
Hines, J r., and G. Hubbard (eds.), TheEffects of Taxation on Multinational Corporations, Uni- 
versity of Chicago Press, 1995. 

^Trading in foreign companies is primarily, but not solely, through depository receipts. 
“NYSE, Quick Reference Shed:, and discussion with NYSE Research, September 1998. 



84 


istration focused much of its attention on the taxation of direct investment abroad 
in 1962. 

In the current economic environment, U.S. portfolio investors (e.g., individuals, 
mutual funds, pension funds, insurance companies, etc.) increasingly allocate capital 
to foreign-based multinational companies whose foreign investments are not subject 
U.S. corporate income tax. Under these circumstances, the impact of U.S. multi- 
national corporation tax rules on the global allocation of capital is greatly attenu- 
ated. 

Market Integration 

The explosive pace of economic integration has been aided by governments that 
have liberalized trade and investment climates. An alphabet soup of regional trade 
agreements has complemented the original multilateral agreement, GATT. In addi- 
tion to the formation of the European Union— the world’s largest common market- 
free trade agreements are creating increasingly integrated multinational markets. 
Examples include the European Economic Area (European Union plus remaining 
members of the European Free Trade Area), NAFTA (North America), ASEAN 
(Southeast Asia), ANZCERTA (Australia and New Zealand), and MERCOSUR 
(Latin America). Almost half of the 153 regional trade agreements notified to the 
GATT or the WTO have been set up since 1990.^2 Complementing these trade agree- 
ments are hundreds of bilateral investment treaties (BITs) which reduce barriers to 
foreign direct investment flows. UNCTAD reports that there has been a three-fold 
increase in BITs in the five years to 1997. 

A consequence of market integration is that U.S. companies and their foreign 
competitors increasingly do not view their business as occurring in separate country 
markets, but rather in regional markets where national boundaries often have little 
economic significance. In this economic environment, the distinctions in subpart F, 
between economic activities conducted within and outside a foreign subsidiary's 
country of incorporation, have in many cases become artificial. When there is a high 
degree of economic integration between national markets, tax rules that treat these 
markets separately are as arbitrary as distinctions between a company's trans- 
actions with customers in different cities. 

Conclusions 

In the decades since the enactment of subpart F in 1962, the global economy has 
grown more rapidly than the U.S. economy. Concomitantly, U.S. companies have 
confronted both the rise of powerful foreign competitors and the growth of market 
opportunities abroad. By almost every measure— income, exports, or cross-border in- 
vestment— the United States today represents a smaller share of the global market. 
At the same time, U.S. companies have increasingly focused on foreign markets for 
continued growth and prosperity. Over the last three decades, sales and income 
from foreign subsidiaries have increased much more rapidly than from domestic op- 
erations. To compete successfully both at home and abroad, U.S. companies have 
adopted global sourcing and distribution channels, as have their competitors. 

These developments have a number of potential implications for tax policy. U.S. 
tax rules that are out of step with those of other major industrial counties are now 
more likely to hamper the competitiveness of U.S. multinationals in today's global 
economy than was the case in the 1960s. 

The growing economic integration among nations— especially the formation of 
common markets and free trade areas— raises questions about the appropriateness 
of U.S. tax rules that treat foreign transactions differently if they cross national bor- 
ders than if they occur within the same country. 

The eclipsing of foreign direct investment by portfolio investment calls into ques- 
tion the ability of tax policy focussed on foreign direct investment to influence the 
global allocation of capital. 

The abandonment of the gold standard has eliminated balance of payment consid- 
erations as a rationale for using tax policy to discourage U.S. investment abroad. 
Indeed, as the world's largest debtor nation, tax policies that discourage U.S. invest- 
ment abroad are obsolete. 


i^See Section E of Chapter 6 of the NFTC report for a discussion of this issue. 
^^The Economist, October 3, 1998, p. 19. 

13UNCTAD, World Investment Report, 1997. 



85 


III. Is Foreign Investment By U.S. Companies FIarmful to the 
Domestic Economy? 

While acknowledging the anti-competitive implications of subpart F, opponents of 
deferral frequently argue that U.S. direct investment abroad comes at the expense 
of the U.S. economy. From this perspective, subpart F is viewed as protecting the 
U.S. economy in general— and U.S. workers specifically— from the flow of U.S. in- 
vestment abroad. Opponents of deferral often oppose free trade agreements because 
the free flow of goods across national borders, much like the free flow of investment, 
is perceived as jeopardizing domestic jobs. 

The data and economic studies, summarized below, however, support the view 
that outward investment is beneficial rather than harmful to the home country 
economy. As noted in a recent report of the Organization for Economic Cooperation 
and Development (OECD), critics of outward direct investment sometimes fail to 
look at the broader economic ramifications: 

The effects of direct investment outflows on the source country, particularly 
on employment are sometimes still regarded with some disquiet. Most concerns 
regarding the effects of FDI [foreign direct investment] outflows may arise be- 
cause investment is viewed statically and without due regard to the spillover 
effects it generates at home and abroad. In fact, however, domestic firms and 
their employees generally gain from the freedom of businesses to invest over- 
seas. As with trade, FDI generally creates net benefits for host and source coun- 
tries alike. 

Background: Why Do U.S. Corporations I nvest Abroad? 

Contrary to the image some commentators have that U.S. corporations set up for- 
eign affiliates as substitutes for U.S. operations, the latest UN report on foreign in- 
vestment finds that "accessing markets will remain the principal motive for invest- 
ing abroad. 15 Tariff and non-tariff barriers, transportation costs, local content re- 
quirements, location of natural resources, location of customer facilities, and other 
factors frequently make investing abroad the only feasible option for successfully 
penetrating foreign markets. Moreover, a local presence generally is required for 
services industries such as finance, retail, legal, and account! ng.i® In addition, mul- 
tinational customers frequently prefer to deal with suppliers and service providers 
who have operations in all of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Foreign invest- 
ment also allows U.S. parent companies to diversify risks; through diversification, 
a downturn in the home market may be offset by an upturn abroad. 

Fligh-income countries provide the most lucrative opportunities for U.S. multi- 
nationals. As a result, government data show that the bulk of U.S. direct invest- 
ment abroad goes to high-wage, high-income countries. In 1996, 81 percent of assets 
and 68 percent of employment were in high-income developed countries rather than 
low-wage developing nations.i^ This pattern of investment is consistent with the 
view that the presence of rich consumer markets is a much more important expla- 
nation for U.S. investment abroad than low wages. Low wages typically indicate low 
productivity, so there is little if any advantage to be obtained from manufacturing 
in low-wage jurisdictions, particularly where the economic infrastructure (e.g., 
transportation, communication, electricity and water services) and legal infrastruc- 
ture are not adequately developed. 

Further evidence for the hypothesis that U.S. direct investment abroad is at- 
tracted by consumer demand rather than low-cost labor supply is the fact that less 
than 10 percent of U.S. -control led foreign corporation sales were exported to the 
United States. If U.S. investment abroad were motivated by the desire to substitute 
cheap foreign labor, rather than to serve foreign markets, one would expect a sig- 
nificant amount of U.S. multinational production abroad to be shipped back to the 
United States.i® In fact, over half of all foreign affiliates of U.S. companies are en- 


140ECD, Open Markets Matter: The Benefits of Trade and Investment Liberalization, 1998, 
p. 49. 

15UNCTAD, World I nvestment Report, 1997, p. xix. 

i^See, OECD, Open Markets Matter: The Benefits of Trade and Investment Liberalization, 
1998, p. 50. 

I'^Developed countries are defined here as Europe, Canada, Austraiia, New Zeaiand, South 
Africa, J apan, Singapore, and Hong Kong. See, U.S. Department of Commerce, U.S. Direct In- 
vestment Abroad (Sejotember 1998). 

i®See, Peter Merrill and Carol Dunahoo, "Runaway Plant Legislation: Rhetoric and Reality," 
Tax Notes (j uly 8, 1996) pp. 221-226 and Tax Notes International (j uly 15, 1996) pp. 169-174. 



86 


gaged in services and trade, activities that are ciceeiy tied to the customers' idea- 
tion. 

If U.S. investment abroad were attracted by iow wages, as critics contend, foreign 
empioyment and production of U.S. muitinationais abroad wouid be rising in com- 
parison to domestic empioyment and production. In fact, the output and employ- 
ment of U.S. -control led foreign corporations has declined as a share of domestic out- 
put and employment since the CFC data were first published by the Bureau of Eco- 
nomic Analysis in 1982.20 

The centrality of the sales expansion function of foreign affiliates suggests that 
the operations of U.S. parent firms and their foreign affiliates are mutually rein- 
forcing rather than substitutes. Direct investment abroad frequently leads to addi- 
tional exports of machinery and other inputs into the manufacturing process as well 
as additional demand at home for headquarters services such as research, engineer- 
ing, finance, etc. The parent companies of U.S. multinationals purchase over 90 per- 
cent of their inputs from U.S. -based suppliers.^i 

Exports 

U.S. multinational corporations play a crucial role in U.S. foreign trade. As affili- 
ates establish production and distribution facilities abroad, export data indicate that 
they source a large quantity of inputs from the United States. U.S. multinationals 
were responsible for $407 billion of merchandise exports in 1996 representing al- 
most two-thirds of all U.S. merchandise exports. 

Academic studies support the hypothesis that U.S. investment abroad promotes 
U.S. exports. For example. Prof. Robert Lipsey finds a strong positive relationship 
between manufacturing activity of foreign affiliates of U.S. corporations and the 
level of exports from the U.S. parent company.22 Similarly, a recent OECD study 
of 14 countries found that "each dollar of outward FDI [foreign direct investment] 
is associated with $2 of additional exports and with a bilateral trade surplus of 
$1.70.23 These studies support the conclusion that if U.S. investment abroad were 
curtailed, U.S. exports would suffer. 

H eadquarters services 

In addition to their role in increasing demand for U.S. exports, foreign affiliates 
of U.S. corporations also increase the demand for U.S. headquarters services such 
as management, research and development, technical expertise, finance, and adver- 
tising. These support activities expand as U.S. affiliates compete successfully 
abroad. For example, in 1996, nonbank U.S. multinationals performed 88 percent 
of their research and development in the United States, even though one-third of 
their sales were abroad./24/ 

FI eadquarters functions, such as R&D, finance, and management, are the types 
of activities that are prospering in the information-oriented economy. As such, some 
economists have argued that U.S. tax policy should seek to make the United States 
an attractive location for multinational corporations to establish their head- 
quarters. 25 Unfortunately, because of subpart F and other aspects of U.S. inter- 
national tax rules, the United States is one of the least attractive jurisdictions— 
from a tax perspective— for a multinational corporation's headquarters.^^ 

U.S. I nvestment Abroad and U.S. Employment 

Rather than draining jobs and production from the United States, the economic 
evidence points to the opposite conclusion— U.S. investment abroad increases activ- 
ity at home. The complementary relationship between the foreign and domestic op- 


Mathew Slaughter, Global I nvestment, American Returns, Emergency Committee for Amer- 
ican Trade, 1998. 

2°The gross product of control I ed-foreign corporations (CFCs) has fallen from 6.9 percent of 
U.S. GDP In 1982 to 6.6 percent In 1996. Similarly, CFC employment as fallen from 5.0 percent 
of U.S. domestic employment In 1982 to 4.9 percent In 1986. 

2iMathew Slaughter. Global Investments, American Returns Emergency Committee for Amer- 
ican Trade, 1998. 

22Robert E. Lipsey, "Outward Direct Investment and the U.S. Economy," in M. Feldstein, J . 
Hines, J r., and G. Hubbard (eds.), The Effects of Taxation on Multinational Corporations, Uni- 
versity of Chicago Press, 1995. 

23See, OECD, Open Markets Matter: The Benefits of Trade and Investment Liberalization, 
1998, p. 50. 

2‘*U.S. Department of Commerce, Survey cf Current Busines, (September 1998). 

23See Gary Hufbauer, U.S. Taxation of International Income Blueprint for Reform, Institute 
for International Economics, 1992. 

26See, Price Waterhouse LLP, Taxation of U.S. Corporations Doing Business Abroad: U.S. 
Rules and Competitiveness Issues, Financial Executives Research Foundation, 1996. 



87 


erations of U.S. multinational corporations means that U.S. workers need not be 
harmed by U.S. investment abroad. Profs. David Riker and National Economic 
Council Deputy Director Lael Brainard find that the labor demand of U.S. multi- 
nationals at home and abroad are linked, with an increase in one supporting an in- 
crease in the other: 

Labor demand of U.S. multinationals is linked internationally at the firm level, 
presumably through trade in intermediate and final goods, and this link results in 
complementarity rather than competition between employers in industrialized and 
developing countries.^s 

The foreign operations of U.S. companies also are associated with higher wages 
of U.S. workers. U.S. companies that invest overseas, on average, pay higher domes- 
tic wages than do purely domestic companies in the same industries. Profs. Mark 
Dorns and Bradford J ensen find that U.S. parent companies pay higher wages to 
their entire workforce, and that the wage premium in percentage terms is greater 
for lower paid production workers than for higher paid non-production workers. 
Prof. Slaughter interprets this as evidence that U.S. parent companies promote a 
more equal distribution of income by paying higher wage premia to traditionally 
lower paid workers. 

Investment abroad by U.S. multinationals not only is essential to facilitating the 
distribution and servicing of U.S. exports, but failure of U.S. multinationals to in- 
vest abroad would create an opportunity for foreign-headquartered competitors to 
increase their investment in and exports to foreign markets. 

Returns to U.S. Investors 

U.S. shareholders in U.S. multinationals directly realize the benefits of the high 
profits and risk diversification offered by international operations. The pre-tax re- 
turn on assets earned by U.S. -control led foreign corporations was almost 30 percent 
higher than the return earned on domestic corporate investment in 1995.^^ These 
foreign profits totaled $150 billion, and accounted for about 18 percent of all U.S. 
corporate profits in 1997. 

The profits earned abroad by U.S. multinationals are part of national income 
(GNP) and are reflected in the share valuations. Moreover, much of the income 
earned abroad by foreign subsidiaries is distributed back to the United States. Ac- 
cording to the most recent available IRS data, in 1994, distributions from the larg- 
est U.S. -control led foreign corporations totaled $50 billion, amounting to 67 percent 
of their after-tax earnings and profits. 

Academic research has found a large premium in the returns from foreign invest- 
ment as compared to domestic investment. Prof. Martin Feldstein concludes that an 
additional dollar of foreign direct investment by U.S. corporations, in present value, 
leads to 70 percent more interest and dividend receipts and U.S. tax payments than 
an additional dollar of domestic investment. 

Conclusion 

Fears that U.S. investment abroad comes at the expense of output, income, and 
employment at home are not supported by data or economic research. Rather, the 
evidence strongly confirms that market access, rather than cheap labor, primarily 
motivates foreign direct investment. The overwhelming majority of foreign direct in- 
vestment is in high-wage countries, and very little of the foreign output of U.S. mul- 
tinationals is shipped back to the United States. Numerous studies have found that 
foreign investment not only produces higher returns to U.S. investors but also is 
complementary with economic activity in the United States— leading to increased 
exports and high-paid research, engineering, and other headquarters jobs in the 
United States. There is no evidence that U.S. investment abroad has reduced em- 


^■^See, OECD, Open Markets Matter: The Benefits of Trade and Investment Liberalization, 
1998, pp. 73-76. 

28David Riker and Lael Brainard, "U.S. Multinationals and competition from Low Wage 
Countries," NBER Working Paper No. 5959, March 1997. 

25Mark Dorns and Bradford j ensen, "Comparing Wages, Skills, and Productivity Between Do- 
mestic and Foreign Owned Manufacturing Establishments in the United States," mimeo., Octo- 
ber 1996. 

3°Matthewj . Slaughter, 'Production Transfer Within Multinational Enterprises and American 
Wages," mimeo., March 1998. 

3iEarnings (excluding capital gains and special charges) before interest and taxes as a percent 
of assets, as calculated by the U.S. Dept, of Commerce. 

32U.S. Dept, of Commerce, Surv^ of Current Business, (August 1998). 

3^Martin Feldstein, 'Tax Rules and the Effect of Foreign Direct Investment in U.S. National 
Income," in Taxing Multinationai Corporations, eds. Martin Feldstein, j ames Hines, and Glenn 
Hubbard, 1995. 



88 


ployment in the United States; indeed, the data show that companies with invest- 
ment outside the United States pay better wages than pureiy domestic companies 
in the same industries.^"^ 

Restricting foreign investment in an attempt to protect domestic empioyment uiti- 
mateiy is a seif-defeating policy. Foreign companies will seize these investment op- 
portunities and increase market share at the expense of U.S. multinationals' em- 
ployment at home and abroad. 

Like international trade in goods and services, foreign direct investment benefits 
both home and host countries; thus, it is in the mutual interest of home and host 
countries to reduce barriers to the free flow of direct investment. I n view of the re- 
cent downturn that has struck a number of emerging market economies, it is impor- 
tant to distinguish foreign direct investment from international portfolio investment. 
Portfolio investment, such as investment in short-term government and private debt 
obligations, can easily be withdrawn at the first hint of an economic reversal. By 
contrast, foreign direct investment, particularly in plant and equipment, is long- 
term in nature, and cannot easily be removed. Barriers to U.S. direct investment 
abroad not only harm the development of foreign countries, but also deprive the 
U.S. economy of the increased returns, exports, and wages associated with multi- 
national investment. 

IV. Does the Competitiveness of U.S.-FIeadouartered Companies Matter for 

U.S. Economic Well-Being? 

In a provocative article, former Labor Secretary Robert Reich argues against mul- 
tinational competitiveness as a goal for U.S. policy. In Reich's view, where cor- 
porations happen to be headquartered is "fundamentally unimportant." Reich be- 
lieves U.S. policymakers should focus primarily on domestic investments (whether 
by domestic or foreign companies) and less on the strength of American companies. 

In response. Prof. Laura Tyson, former Chair of the Council of Economic Advisers 
and former Director of the National Economic Council, argues that under current 
conditions, the "competitiveness of the U.S. economy remains tightly linked to the 
competitiveness of U.S. companies." Tyson offers a number of reasons for this link- 
age, including: 

• U.S. multinationals locate over 70 percent of their assets and employment in 
the United States; 

• U.S. multinationals invest more per employee and pay more per employee at 
home than abroad in both developed and developing countries; 

• U.S. multinationals perform the overwhelming majority of their R&D at home; 

• The leadership of U.S. multinationals is overwhelmingly American; 

• Trade barriers frequently require U.S. companies to invest abroad in order to 
sell abroad: and 

• U.S. affiliates of foreign firms rely much more heavily on foreign suppliers than 
on domestic companies. 

Tyson believes that American interests will be advanced through multilateral re- 
ductions in trade and investment barriers, and through policies that make the U.S. 
an attractive production location for high-productivity, high-wage, and research-in- 
tensive activities. 

V. Flow Does U.S. International Tax Policy Affect the Competitiveness of 

U.S. Multinational Companies? 

If policymakers wish to attract high-end jobs to the United States, they must con- 
sider whether the U.S. income tax system makes the United States a desirable loca- 
tion for establishing and maintaining a corporate headquarters. If the U.S. cor- 
porate income tax is not competitive, U.S. headquartered companies can be expected 
to lose world market share with a commensurate loss in the U.S. share of head- 
quarter-type jobs. While the country of incorporation is not necessarily where head- 
quarters functions are located, there is indisputably a very high correlation between 
legal residence and headquarters operations. 

A number of studies have found that, compared to other major industrial coun- 
tries, the U.S. income tax system places a relatively high burden on cross-border 


3‘*For anecdotal evidence from case studies of U.S. muitinationais, see Mathew Siaughter, 
Global Investments, American R^urns, Emergency Committee for American Trade, 1998 (Chap- 
ter V). 

35Robert Reich, "Who is Us?" Harvard Business Rs/ie/v (j anuary-February 1990) pp. 53-64. 
3®Laura D'Andrea Tyson, 'They are not Us: Why American Ownership Stiii Matters," The 
American Prospect, Wi nter, 1991. 



89 


corporate investment.^'^ The tax burden is relatively high for two main reasons: (1) 
the U.S. international tax regime, including subpart F, is more restrictive than that 
of most other countries; and (2) unlike most other major industrial countries, the 
United States does not relieve the double taxation of corporate dividends. 

Over time, countries that place relatively high tax burdens on multinational cor- 
porations can expect to see a reduction in investment in domestic headquartered 
companies. This can occur through a loss in market share and profits that can be 
reinvested in the business. Alternatively, domestic companies may merge with for- 
eign corporations in transactions that result in a foreign-headquartered company. 
Recent U.S. examples include the BP-Amoco, Daimler-Chrysler, Vodafone-AirTouch, 
Deutsche Bank-Bankers Trust, and AEGON-Transamerica mergers. In these exam- 
ples, future investments outside the United States will most likely not be made by 
the U.S. merger partner, but instead by the foreign parent, permanently removing 
such investment from the U.S. corporate i ncome tax net. 

Foreign-headquartered companies also can grow at the expense of U.S.- 
headquartered companies, if U.S. investors buy shares of foreign companies on U.S. 
or foreign exchanges. The growth in U.S. mutual funds that invest in foreign stocks 
is an illustration of this trend, as are investments in foreign firms listed on U.S. 
stock exchanges. 

While some have advocated increasing U.S. tax on the foreign earnings of U.S. 
multinationals as a way to protect U.S. jobs, the most likely consequence of such 
action will be a loss in the global market share of U.S. headquartered companies. 
Rather than protecting U .S. jobs, imposing a tax system on U.S. multinationals that 
is more burdensome than that of their foreign competitors will hamper the growth 
of U.S. companies, ultimately reducing U.S. exports, research and development, and 
high-quality American jobs. 

Summary of Large U.S. Cross-Border Mergers and Acquisitions, 1998 
Introduction 

in announcing thej une 30, 1999 hearing of the Committee on Ways and Means 
regarding the impact of U.S. tax rules on the international competitiveness of U.S. 
workers and businesses. Chairman Archer posed the following questions: 

"Is the U.S. tax system contribution to the de-Americanization of U.S. in- 
dustry? Do our tax laws force U.S. companies to be domiciled in foreign 
countries? Are we making it a foregone conclusion that mergers of U.S. 
companies with foreign companies will always leave the resulting new com- 
pany headquartered overseas? 

As an initial step towards answering these questions, this report summarizes data 
on all large cross-border mergers and acquisitions involving U.S. companies that 
were completed in 1998. Based on these data, one can determine whether U.S. com- 
panies are more often the acquirer or the target (i.e, the acquired company) in large 
cross-border mergers and acquisitions. 

Methodology 

For purposes of this study, PricewaterhouseCooper LLP (PwC) reviewed all merg- 
ers and acquisitions completed during 1998 as reported by Mergers and Acquisi- 
tions, a journal that publishes detailed information on all public trans- 
actions. From this sample, we selected all transactions that met the fol- 
lowing criteria: 

1. The terms of the transaction were in excess of $500 million; 

2. The transaction involves the acquisition of all or a remaining interest in the 
target company; 

3. The transaction crosses country borders (i.e., acquirer and target are 
headquartered in different in different countries); and 

4. A U.S. —headquartered company is the acquirer or the target. 

Information regarding the selected transactions is summarized in Tables 1-4, in- 
cluding the name and country of incorporation of the acquirer and the target, the 
target's business, and the terms, type, and completion due of the transaction. 

Results 


^■^For an international comparison U.S. multinational tax competitiveness, see: Price 
Waterhouse LLP, Taxation of U.S. corporations Doing Business Abroad: U.S. Rules and Com- 
petitiveness I ssues, Financial Executives Research Foundation, 1996 (Chapter 10). 

lU.S. House of Representatives, Committee on Ways and Means, press release no. FC-12, 
J une 15, 1999. 



90 


In 1998, there were a total of 51 cross-border mergers and acquisitions involving 
U.S companies with terms in excess of $500 miiiion. The totai doiiar vaiue of these 
transactions exceeded $175 biiiion. 

Foreign acquisitions of U.S. companies far exceeded U.S. acquisitions of foreign 
companies, both in terms of the number of transactions and the doiiar vaiue of these 
transactions. For cross-border mergers and acquisitions exceeding $500 miiiion in 
1998: 

• Foreign companies made 34 acquisitions of U.S. companies, whiie U.S. compa- 
nies made 17 acquisitions of foreign companies. Thus, the number of transactions 
that had the effect of moving assets from U.S. -to foreign-headquartered firms ex- 
ceeded transactions moving assets in the opposite direction by $127 biiiion, or 529 
percent in doiiar terms. 

• Foreign acquisitions of U.S. companies totaied $151 biiiion, whiie U.S. acquisi- 
tions of foreign companies totaied $24 biiiion. Thus, the number of transactions that 
had the effect of moving assets from U.S. -to foreign-foreign-headquartered firms ex- 
ceeded transactions moving assets in the opposite direction by $127 biiiion, or 529 
percent in doiiar terms. 

• Foreign acquisitions of U.S. companies were dominated, in doiiar terms, by two 
mega-mergers— the acquisition of Amoco Corp. by British Petroieum Co. PLC and 
the acquisition of Chrysier Corp. by Daimier-Benz AG. These two deais together 
represent the saie of U .S. companies vaiued at $89 biiiion to foreign acquirers. Flow- 
ever, even exciuding these two mega-mergers, transactions which had the effect of 
moving assets from U.S. -to foreign-headquartered firms exceeded transactions mov- 
ing assets in the opposite direction by $38 biiiion, or 58 percent in doiiar terms. 

• Transactions involving acquisitions of financial services companies accounted 
for 15 of the 51 ross-border deals, or 29 percent. Foreign acquisions of U.S. financial 
services companies (12 transactions totaling $11.3 billion) exceeded U.S. acquisitions 
of foreign financial services companies (3 transactions totaling $3.6 billion) by 300 
percent in number, or by 214 percent in dollar terms. It should be noted that some 
of the other U.s. target companies have large financial services subsidiaries (e.g., 
Chrysler Corp.), although these are not included in the statistics on financial service 
mergers and acquisitions. 

Conclusions 

the structuring of cross-border acquisitions reflects a variety of business reasons 
including domestic and foreign tax considerations. The role of tax considerations in 
recent across-border mergers and acquisitions is beyond the scope of this study. 

To the extent that U.S. multinational companies are subject to more burdensome 
international tax rules than their foreign-headquarter multinationals. In particular, 
one would expect to see this result for target companies in industries where the dis- 
parity between U.S. and foreign tax rules is large, such as financial services. The 
data in this study show that, as a result of cross-border mergers and acquisitions, 
assets are, on balance moving from U.S. -to foreign-headquartered companies, and 
this trend is pronounced in the financial services industry (measured by the number 
of transactions). 

While the recent cross-border merger and acquisition data are consistent with the 
hypothesis that relatively burdensome U.S. tax rules are influencing the movement 
of assets to foreign-headquartered companies, they cannot be taken as proof of this 
hypothesis. More research will be necessary to measure the role, if any, of tax con- 
siderations. 



91 




92 


CO 

Z) 




93 


CO 

O) 

O) 

c 

o 


§ 

to = 

o E 
•5 c 


(A 


to 


O' 3 

O o 
< E 

T3 03 
C w. 
CO iS 

<0 *5 
o a 

O) 

h. 

4 ) 

s 

u 

0 ) 

■u 

o 

QQ 

(0 

(0 

o 


w 

zl 

o 

I- 

co 

o 

ja 



CO 



CO 

CO 


CNJ 


o 




tn 

CM 

in 



c 



0 



o 



m 



t/i 



c 



ra 






H 



W 



b 


h- 

L. 

0*3 

T— 

U- 




05 

0) 

<0 

0 



c 


CO 

Q. 


E 

E 



o 


O 

O 



c 


(A 

05 


ZD 

0 



( ) 


<J 

LL 





c 

O 



CO 


CO 

o 


D 



cr 






< 

rr 


c 

C) 


05 

< 

E 

0 

CO 

0 

O 


L- 

Z) 


0 

CL 

o 

o 

O 

0 


3 

o 

od 


00 

O) 

0 ) 



(0 

H 


Chairman Archer. Thank you, Mr. Merrill. 

Our last witness on this panel is Mr. Bouma. Welcome, you may 
proceed. 

STATEMENT OF HERMANN B. BOUMA, INTERNATIONAL TAX 
ATTORNEY, H.B. BOUMA 

Mr. Bouma. Thank you. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. 
My name is Herm Bouma and I am an international tax attorney 
engaged in private practice in Washington, D.C. I appreciate very 
much the opportunity to appear before the Committee this morn- 
ing, almost afternoon now. And I commend the Committee for fo- 





94 


cusing its time and energy on the international provisions of the 
Code. 

I n my testimony, I would like to take a look at the forest, rather 
than the trees, and focus on the basic foundations of our inter- 
national tax rules. I believe those foundations are not tied into re- 
ality and that this accounts for much of the arbitrariness and com- 
plexity of the current system. 

Specifically, I would like to focus on three fundamental issues: 
taxation of business entities in general, the taxation of U.S. versus 
foreign corporations, and the rules for sourcing income. 

With respect to the taxation of business entities, under the cur- 
rent Code, business entities are divided into two basic types: cor- 
porations and partnerships. As used here, the term partnership 
also includes a sole proprietorship. Radically different tax rules 
apply to corporations and to partnerships. Certain business entities 
are treated as per se corporations, while other business entities are 
permitted to choose whether they wish to be treated as a corpora- 
tion or as a partnership. There is no logical reason why per se cor- 
porations are treated as such. 

Certainly, this treatment cannot be justified on the grounds that 
they provide limited liability to their interest holders or that they 
are so-called separate entities. Many business entities that are en- 
titled to choose their classification also have these same character- 
istics. When it comes to the taxation of business entities, all busi- 
ness entities should be subject to only one layer of taxation and 
they should be taxed on a territorial basis. 

Assuming the Code continues to classify business entities as ei- 
ther corporations or partnerships, the next fundamental issue I 
would liKe to address is whether there should be any difference be- 
tween the taxation of U.S. corporations on the one hand and for- 
eign corporations on the other. 

Under present law, a corporation is considered a U.S. corpora- 
tion, simply by being organized under the laws of the United States 
or some political subdivision thereof, such as Delaware. I would 
like to emphasize whether the company has its headquarters in the 
United States or does any business here is completely irrelevant to 
whether or not it is a U.S. corporation for purposes of the Internal 
Revenue Code. 

Incorporation in the United States does not in any way justify 
taxing a corporation on a worldwide basis. Thus, the United States 
should adopt a territorial system for corporations. Every corpora- 
tion, whether U.S. or foreign, should be taxed by the United States 
only on its income from operations in the United States. 

The third fundamental issue I would like to address involves the 
rules for sourcing income as either U.S. -source or foreign-source in- 
come. The current Code and regulations have come up with a com- 
plex, arbitrary, and arcane set of rules for sourcing all kinds of in- 
come. Replacing these rules with an approach focused on perma- 
nent establishments would be a major step toward rationalizing 
and simplifying the international provisions. 

Under this approach, the 30 percent gross basis tax would apply 
to certain payments made by U.S. permanent establishments and 
the foreign tax credit limitation, assuming such was still necessary, 
would focus on income that is effectively connected with a tax- 



95 


payer's foreign permanent establishment or that is received by the 
taxpayer from someone's foreign permanent establishment. Thus, 
the arbitrary and complex sourcing rules of the current Code could 
be replaced with a much more logical and clear-cut approach. 

Because of the arbitrariness and complexity of the current inter- 
national provisions, it is critical that they be revised from the 
ground up so that they are tied into reality, rationalized and sim- 
plified, thereby eliminating the major burden they currently impose 
on the international competitiveness of U.S. corporations. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman, and I would be happy to answer any 
questions the Committee might have. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of Hermann B. Bouma, International Tax Attorney, H.B. Bauma 

Mr. Chairman and distinguished Members of the Committee on Ways and Means: 

My name is Herm Bouma and I appreciate very much the opportunity to appear 
before the Committee this morning to speak on the internationai provisions of the 
Internai Revenue Code. I commend the Committee for focusing its time and energy 
on this very important topic. I appear before the Committee on my own behaif and 
not on behaif of any dient. 

I have been an internationai tax attorney now for aimost 20 years, ever since I 
graduated from iaw schooi. Upon graduating from iaw school, I went to work with 
the Office of Chief Counsel at the Internal Revenue Service, where I worked in the 
International Branch of the Legislation and Regulations Division. My principal 
project there involved the final foreign tax credit regulations under sections 901 and 
903. After fulfilling my four-year commitment there, I went into private practice 
with the Washington tax firm known as McClure & Trotter. I was a partner there 
for eight years and then left to establish my own practice, continuing to focus on 
international taxation. The rationalization and simplification of the international 
tax provisions is a subject I have thought about for a long time now. 

Reality and the International Provisions 

We international tax practitioners have a tendency to get bogged down among the 
trees (of which there are many) and seldom step back to view the forest as a whole. 
In my testimony I would like to look at the forest and focus on the basic 
foundational principles on which our international tax regime should deconstructed. 

J udge Learned Hand once wrote: 

. . . In my own case the words of such an act as the Income Tax . . . 
merely dance before my eyes in a meaningless procession . . . couched in 
abstract terms that offer no handle to seize hold of . . . [A]t times I cannot 
help recalling a saying of William J ames about certain passages of Hegel: 
that they were no doubt written with a passion of rationality: but that one 
cannot help wondering whether to the reader they have significance save 
that the words are strung together with syntactical correctness. 

Learned Hand, Thomas Walter Swan, 57 Yale L.J . 167, 169 (1947). Why is it that 
people find the Code so hard to understand? There are a number of reasons but one 
explanation is that often it is not tied in to reality. I believe this is the case with 
the international provisions of the Code. 

There is a huge gap between reality and those provisions. If the international pro- 
visions can be based on certain fundamental principles that are grounded in reality 
and that make sense conceptually, then the provisions will be far less arbitrary and 
far less complex. They will be easier to learn, both for practitioners and the IRS, 
and easier to apply. Even where a certain amount of complexity is still required, 
the complexity will be based on sound fundamental principles, and thus much easier 
to understand. Moreover, if the international provisions are tied in to reality and 
make sense, then, when one encounters a situation that is not directly addressed 
by the provisions, it will be much easier to determine what the answer should be. 

When the foundation of a structure is wealc and rickety, adding more to the top 
will not strengthen it; it will simply add more weight so that eventually the whole 
structure may collapse of its own weight. That is the point we are reaching now 
with the international provisions of the Code, where the structure has become so 
huge and so heavy, and yet the foundation is extremely weak and rickety. The 



96 


whole thing is in danger of collapsing, collapsing in the sense that it is moving be- 
yond the capacity of the I RS to administer and enforce it. 

"A Brief Description of Reality" 

In order to tie the international provisions in to reality, we first need to have a 
clear view of reality. Describing reality in somewhat broad-brush strokes, reality 
consists of God, people, and the world (which includes such things as rocks and 
trees and squirrels). People have rights and obligations, including financial rights 
and obligations, which are often referred to as assets and liabilities. People can hold 
assets and liabilities directly or through arrangements. Some arrangements for as- 
sets and liabilities are intended to generate income. An income-generating arrange- 
ment normally consists of a set of rules which governs the management of the as- 
sets and liabilities and the distribution of assets either to persons who hold interests 
in the arrangement or to others. I ncome-generati ng arrangements are of three basic 
types: business entities, trusts, and non-profit organizations. 

In focusing on the basic foundational principles on which our international tax re- 
gime should be constructed, I would like to consider three "big-ticket" items: the tax- 
ation of business entities, the taxation of U.S. versus foreign corporations, and the 
rules for sourcing income as either U.S. -source or foreign-source. 

Taxation of Business Entities 

Obviously, the taxation of business entities is not an issue that is limited to the 
international area. However, it does have major ramifications for the international 
area and thus is a foundational issuefor an international tax regime. 

Worldwide there is a great variety of business entities— they come in all different 
shapes and sizes. However, they have one thing in common— they are attempting 
to generate income for their interest holders. Under the current Code, this great va- 
riety of business entities is divided into two basic types, corporations and partner- 
ships (including, for this purpose, sole proprietorships), and radically different tax 
regimes apply to each. With respect to corporations, there are two layers of taxation; 
with respect to partnerships, only one. 

Under current IRS regulations, certain business entities, including certain foreign 
business entities, are treated as per se corporations. All other business entities are 
permitted to choose whether they wish to be treated as a corporation or as a part- 
nership for U.S. tax purposes. There is no logical reason why certain business enti- 
ties are treated as per se corporations, and thus subject to an additional layer of 
tax. 

It is sometimes said that it is appropriate to treat certain corporations as per se 
corporations because they provide limited liability to their interest holders. How- 
ever, what logical connection is there between the two? Why should two layers of 
tax apply just because the entity provides limited liability to its interest holders? 
When an interest holder receives a distribution of profits from an entity, the inter- 
est holder benefits to the same extent, whether or not it has limited liability. More- 
over, many business entities that are entitled to choose whether to be treated as 
a corporation or a partnership do provide limited liability to their interest holders. 
Thus, there is nothing in the nature of limited liability that requires an additional 
layer of tax. 

An extra layer of tax is sometimes justified for per se corporations on the grounds 
that they are "separate entities." However, the concept of "separate entity" is never 
defined and in fact there does not appear to be any definition that would apply only 
to per se corporations and not to other types of business entities also. Certainly, 
under typical business law concepts, a traditional partnership under state law, 
which may be treated as a partnership for U.S. tax purposes, is as much a "separate 
entity" as is a corporation under state law that is treated as a per se corporation 
for U.S. tax purposes. Such a partnership can sue and be sued, it can operate under 
its own name, and it can hold property in its own name, including real estate. Thus, 
it would appear to be as much of a "separate entity" as is a per se corporation. 
There is, therefore, absolutely no justification for taxing certain business entities as 
per se corporations, while permitting other business entities to choose how they are 
taxed. Until this can be remedied, we have a Code that at its very foundation makes 
no sense. 

Except as noted below with respect to publicly-traded business entities, all busi- 
ness entities should be taxed in the same way. Ideally, there should be only one 
layer of tax and it should be imposed on the business entity on a territorial basis. 
Requiring the business entity to pay the tax (rather than the interest holders as 
is currently the case under the Code with respect to the taxation of partnership in- 
come) would promote efficiency and reduce the reporting burden on the interest 



97 


holders. If an Interest holder sold Its Interest In the business entity, the business 
entity would be responsible for paying the tax on the gain (which would be withheld 
from the proceeds due to the Interest holder), and adjustments to the entity's asset 
bases would be made In a manner similar to that provided In section 743 of the cur- 
rent Code. If the business entity were publicly-traded and an Interest holder with 
a less than 10% Interest sold Its Interest, then the Interest holder would pay tax 
on the gain and there would be no adjustment to the asset bases of the business 
entity. 

Suppose, for example, a business entity (such as a large law firm) has 1,000 Inter- 
est holders and conducts business In five countries. Under the current Code, If one 
of those countries Is the United States and the business entity Is treated as a part- 
nership for U.S. tax purposes, then each of the 1,000 Interest holders Is required 
to file a U.S. tax return because the business entity Is engaged In the conduct of 
a trade or business In the United States. However, the tax obligation should be Im- 
posed on the business entity, not the Interest holders. Thus, Instead of 5,000 returns 
being required (assuming the other four countries also required a return from each 
interest holder), only five returns would be necessary (assuming all five countries 
adopted the approach of imposing the tax obligation on the business entity). 

An alternative approach would be to treat all non-publicly-traded business entities 
as partnerships are treated under the current Code. Thus, there would be only one 
layer of tax but the income would be taxed through to the interest holders. If a busi- 
ness entity were publicly-traded, it would be taxed as discussed above under the 
ideal approach. Thus, there would be only one layer of tax, but it would be imposed 
on the business entity (except in the case of gain on the sale of an interest by a 
less than 10% interest holder). 

Thus, when it comes to the taxation of business entities, the only distinguishing 
characteristic should be whether or not they are publicly-traded, not whether or not 
they provide limited liability or are "separate entities". 

Taxation of U.S. vs. Foreign Corporations 

If the Code continues to characterize business entities as either corporations or 
partnerships and continues to subject them to different tax regimes, the next "big- 
ticket" item is whether there should be any difference between the taxation of U. 
S. corporations as opposed to foreign corporations. Under present law, a U.S. cor- 
poration is taxed by the United States on its worldwide income, whereas a foreign 
corporation is taxed by the United States only on certain U.S. -source income and 
on income that is effectively connected with the conduct of a trade or business in 
the United States. 

It is important to understand what makes a corporation a U.S. corporation or a 
foreign corporation for this purpose. What makes the difference is a simple piece 
of paper, a paper indicating whether the corporation has been organized under the 
laws of the United States or a political subdivision thereof, such as Delaware, or 
under the laws of a foreign jurisdiction, such as the Cayman Islands. The location 
of the corporation's headquarters, of most of its business operations, of most of its 
property, where it first started business, and the residency of most of its share- 
holders are all completely irrelevant for this purpose. What matters is a simple 
piece of paper. Thus, a corporation can be a U.S. corporation even if it has no oper- 
ations or property in the United States, and no shareholders that are residents of 
the United States. Similarly, a corporation can be a foreign corporation even if it:s 
headquarters and most of its operations and property are in the United States, and 
all of its shareholders are residents of the United States. 

Incorporation in the United States does not provide any benefits that justify tax- 
ing a U.S. corporation on a worldwide basis. In fact, given the many rules and regu- 
lations that apply to U.S. corporations outside the tax area, one could argue that 
incorporation in the United States is actually a detriment, particularly when there 
are many other locations in the world that have favorable corporate laws. Thus, in- 
corporation in the United States does not in any way justify taxing a corporation 
on a worldwide basis. A corporation primarily benefits from the countries in which 
it earns income, not from the country in which it happens to be incorporated. 

On March 11, 1999, Mr. Robert Perlman, Vice President for Tax, Licensing & 
Customs for Intel Corporation, testified before the Senate linance Committee con- 
cerning the international provisions of the Code. Mr. Perlman stated that if Intel 
had it to do all over again, it would incorporate as a foreign corporation, not as a 
U .S. corporation. Some members ofthe Committee took offense at this statement and 
considered it unpatriotic. In addition, they pointed out all of the benefits of doing 
business in the United States, including an educated labor force, little regulation, 
and a stable government, and they expressed skepticism that a company would 



98 


move its operations offshore in order to secure better tax benefits. However, this re- 
action to Mr. Periman's statement refiected a basic misunderstanding of what it 
means, under the Code, to be a U.S. corporation or a foreign corporation. 

Mr. Periman said that if Intel had it to do aii over again, it wouid incorporate 
in the Cayman Isiands rather than the United States. Aii that this wouid mean is 
that Intei wouid have a piece of paper saying it was incorporated under the iaws 
of the Cayman Isiands. Everything else about Intel’s operations, inciuding its U.S. 
operations, wouid be exactiy the same. I ntei wouid stiii have its headquarters in the 
United States, and it wouid have just as many factories in the United States, just 
as much research in the United States, and just as many saiesmen in the United 
States. The oniy difference is that Intel would have a piece of paper saying it was 
incorporated in the Cayman Islands and this would make all the diSerence in the 
world taxwise. It would not be subject to the infamous Subpart F regime, and in 
fact all of its income from foreign operations would be completely free of U.S. tax. 

Start-up companies are now being wisely advised to incorporate in a foreign juris- 
diction in order to avoid the onerous rules of the U.S. tax regime, including world- 
wide taxation and Subpart F. However, many companies which incorporated as U. 
S. corporations many years ago are stuck with the onerous U.S. tax r^ime because 
the "toll charge" under section 367(a) precludes a foreign reincorporation. It is sim- 
ply unfair for a corporation to now suffer inordinately under the U.S. tax r^ime 
just because it made the unfortunate decision, 50 or 100 years ago, to be incor- 
porated in the United States. 

In a recent article. Professor Reuven S. Avi-Yonah, an assistant professor at Har- 
vard Law School, stated that "it does not seem to make sense to rely so much on 
formalities such as which country an entity is incorporated in." Reuven S. Avi- 
Yonah, Tax Competition and Multinational Competitiveness: The New Balance of 
Subpart F, Tax Notes International, April 19, 1999, p. 1575, fn 45. Although Pro- 
fessor Avi-Yonah made this statement in reference to controlled foreign corpora- 
tions, it certainly applies to the taxation of U.S. corporations also. It is ironic that, 
while the IRS struggles to tax transactions based on their substance and not their 
form, in this major way the Code elevates form over substance. 

It is extremely important, therefore, that all corporations be treated the same, 
whether they are incorporated in the United States or outside the United States. 
This means that the United States should adopt a territorial system with respect 
to the taxation of corporations: every corporation, whether U.S. or foreign, should 
be taxed only on its income from operations in theUnited States. 

The Sourcing Rules 

The third "big-ticket" item that I would like to address involves the sourcing 
rules. The current Code operates on the assumption that every item of income is 
either U.S. -source or foreign -source. The use of the term "source" is misleading be- 
cause it gives the impression that there is a quarry of income in each country and 
one simply determines whether an item of income came from a quarry in the United 
States or from a quarry in a foreign country. However, the matter is not that sim- 
ple. Income, which is an increase in value, is not a physical object, and thus, by 
its very nature, does not have a geographical location. Therefore, one cannot source 
income simply by determining the geographical location from which it came. 

Given this conundrum, the Code and r^ulations have come up with a complex, 
arbitrary, and arcane set of rules for sourcing all kinds of income. Depending on the 
type of income that is involved, these rules look at such factors as the residence, 
citizenship, place of incorporation, or place of business of the payor, the residence, 
citizenship, place of incorporation, or place of business of the payee, and the place 
where services were performed, where negotiations took place, where property was 
at the time title to the property passed, where property is used, where property is 
manufactured using certain manufacturing intangibles, and where property is mar- 
keted using certain marketing intangibles. 

Supposedly, the intent of these rules is to identhy the country whose economy is 
most closely connected with the particular item of income. However, in fact the re- 
sult has been a hodge-podge of extremely arbitrary rules that in many cases make 
no sense. For example, income from the performance of services is sourced to the 
country where the services were performed. Thus, if I hire Tom Clancy to write a 
novel and he spends three weeks on a beach in France writing it, the amount I pay 
him will be foreign-source income, even though it is extremely difficult to see how 
this income might have its "source" in France. 

Given the arbitrariness and complexity of these rules, one is led to ask the ques- 
tion, are these rules really necessary? In fact they are not, and eliminating them 



99 


would be a major step towards rationalizing and simplifying the international provi- 
sions of the Code. 

Under the Code, the sourcing rules are generally used for three purposes: (1) to 
determine the effectively-connected income of a foreign person that is engaged in 
the conduct of a trade or business in the United States; (2) to determine the income 
of a foreign person that is subject to a U.S. tax of 30% on a gross basis (certain 
"U.S. -source" income that is not effectively connected with the conduct of a trade 
or business in the United States): and (3) to detertnine "foreign -source" income for 
purposes of the limitation on the foreign tax credit for U. S. persons. 

With respect to the determination of the effectively-connected income of a foreign 
person, such income can be determined by focusing direcl.ly on the business activi- 
ties being carried on in the United States and by determining what income those 
activities give rise to. Although this determination would not always be easy, the 
approach would be much more direct and much easier to understand. There cer- 
tainly is no need to first "source" income before determining whether a particular 
business activity has given rise to it. 

With respect to the determination of the income of a foreign person that is subject 
to a U.S. tax of 30% on a gross basis, the sourcing rules are not needed for this 
purpose either. Such income could be defined as income paid by a permanent estab- 
lishment in the United States to a foreign person, provided the income is not effec- 
tively connected with the conduct of a trade or business by the foreign person in 
the United States. This approach would also be more direct and easier to under- 
stand. 

With respect to the determination of the foreign tax credit limitation for U.S per- 
sons, clearly the sourcing rules would not be necessary if no foreign tax credit were 
given. Such would be the case with respect to business entities if the United States 
taxed every business entity, whether U.S. or foreign, only on the portion of its 
worldwide income that is allocable to a permanent establishment (or establish- 
ments) that the business entity has in the United States. Since income that is allo- 
cable to foreign permanent establishments would not be taxed by the United States, 
there would be no need to provide a foreign tax credit. If the United States had a 
30% gross basis tax for payments made by U.S. permanent establishments to for- 
eign persons, then the United States would need to allow a foreign tax credit with 
respect to payments received by a U.S. permanent establishment from a foreign per- 
manent establishment (since, in the eyes of the United States, those payments could 
rightfully be subject to a gross basis tax by the country of the foreign permanent 
establishment). 

Even if the United States did not adopt a territorial system, it still would not be 
necessary to retain the current sourcing rules in order to determine the foreign tax 
credit limitation of a U.S. person. The limitation could be determined by adding to- 
gether all the income of a U .S. person that is allocable to foreign permanent estab- 
lishments of the U.S. person or that is received by the U.S. person from foreign per- 
manent establishments (whether or not belonging to the U .S. person). This approach 
would not only be easier to apply but would also make sense conceptually because 
the foreign tax credit limitation would be based on the income of a U.S. person that 
foreign countries would tax if they applied the rules of the United States for taxing 
foreign persons. Under the current Code, there is often a disconnect between the 
amount of a U .S. person's foreign-source income for purposes of the foreign tax cred- 
it limitation and the amount of income foreign countries would tax if they applied 
to the U.S. person the rules applied by the United States to foreign persons. 

Thus, the arbitrary and complex sourcing rules of the current Code could be re- 
placed with much more clear-cut, logical approach. 

Conclusion 

There is a fundamental disconnect between reality and the international provi- 
sions of the current Code, and this disconnect accounts for the arbitrariness and 
complexity of those provisions. Because ofthis arbitrariness and complexity, U.S. 
corporations are subject to both a much higher tax burden and a much higher com- 
pliance burden than are many of their foreign competitors. It is critical that the 
international provisions be revised from the ground up, so that they are tied in to 
reality, rationalized, and simplified, thereby eliminating the current burden on the 
international competitiveness of U.S. corporations. 


Chairman Archer. Thank you, M r. Bouma. 


100 


Does any member wish to inquire of this panel? 

[No response.] 

If not, we appreciate your testimony, and we thank you for the 
opportunity to consider it as we move ahead in developing this tax 
package. 

The Committee will stand in recess until one o'clock so everybody 
can get some lunch, and then we will hear from our last panel. 

[Whereupon, the Committee recessed to reconvene at 1 p.m., the 
same day.] 

Chairman Archer. The Chair apologizes to our next panel of 
witnesses for keeping you waiting for an extra 20 minutes. We will 
be pleased to receive your testimony. Mr. Conway, if you would 
lead off, please, sir. 

STATEMENT OF KEVIN CONWAY, VICE PRESIDENT, TAXES, 

UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORPORATION, HARTFORD, CON- 
NECTICUT, AND VICE CHAIRMAN, SUBCOMMITTEE ON 

INTERNATIONAL TAXATION, NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF 

MANUFACTURERS 

Mr. Conway. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. Members of the Com- 
mittee, my name is Kevin Conway. I am the vice president of taxes 
at United Technologies Corp. I am here today on behalf of the Na- 
tional Association of Manufacturers. 

NAM is the oldest and largest multi-industry trade association in 
the U.S. NAM'S 14,000 members include 10,000 small and medium- 
sized companies and over 300 member associations who represent 
manufacturers in every State. NAM has long advocated inter- 
national tax simplification to improve the international competi- 
tiveness of U.S. companies. NAM strongly supports the provisions 
of H.R. 2018. 

I will focus my testimony on four areas of particular concern. At 
United Technologies, the Otis Elevator Co. competes in the global 
marketplace in the elevator service industry. There are approxi- 
mately 6 million elevators in the world that are available to serv- 
ice. Over 5 million of those are located outside the United States. 
So what this means is that 80 percent of that market is outside the 
United States. 

I n order for us to compete in that marketplace, we often have to 
operate through corporate joint ventures. In order to penetrate 
markets or expand in existing markets, we are required to have 
partners and joint ventures. Very often, our partners will want to 
retain at least a 50 percent ownership in that venture. The result 
is that we often find ourselves in the 10/50 basket. What that 
means is that if the local income tax rate is greater than the 35 
percent U.S. rate, if we have dividends from that 10/50 company, 
we will have excess credits that we will never use. 

I n the same year, we have 10/50 company operations in countries 
where the local rate is below the 35-percent rate. In that case, 
when we take dividends back, we have excess limitation that we 
will never use. Clearly, we think the 10/50 rule results in us being 
non-competitive and it is time that it be repealed. The 1997 Act 
recognized that and it repealed the 10/50 basket. Unfortunately, 
there was a complex transition rule which delayed the effective 



101 


date of the repeal. And NAM urges that the effective date be accel- 
erated to the current time. 

The second area I want to talk about is the provision which ap- 
plies in the case of a taxpayer who is subject to the AMT, the alter- 
native minimum tax regime. That provision essentially says that if 
you have foreign tax credits, you are subject to a 90 percent limita- 
tion. You can use the foreign tax credits, but you can only reduce 
your liability up to 90 percent. We don't believe that the AMT tax 
regime makes any sense. We think it makes even less sense to 
have this 90 percent limitation. So we urge that the rules be 
changed and that AMT taxpayers, just like rmular taxpayers, be 
permitted to use their foreign tax credits to offeet their tax liabil- 
ity. 

The third area I would like to talk about is exports. Exports are 
critical to the growth of U.S. jobs, U.S. companies, and the U.S. 
economy. In 1998, United Technologies had export sales of more 
than $4 billion. Those were products that were manufactured in 
the United States and sold abroad. We have two important provi- 
sions in the Internal Revenue Code dealing with exports. The first 
provision is the foreign sales corporation provision. We also have 
the export source rule under section 863. They are both important 
export incentives and should be maintained. 

However, the ESC rules have a provision which essentially pro- 
vides that the FSC benefit is reduced by 50 percent in the case of 
export sales of military or Defense products. This provision was en- 
acted back in 1976 on the theory that military products weren't 
subject to competition. We know that is not the case today. The 
competition from Europe is stiff on these types of products and 
there is no reason why military products should be treated dif- 
ferently than commercial products. So that limitation should be re- 
pealed. 

Finally, I would like to urge the Committee and Congress to act 
on the legislation which would continue to ensure the confiden- 
tiality of financial information which is submitted or generated as 
part of an advance pricing agreement. The APA program, I think, 
is one example we can all point to of a program that has really 
worked well for the IRS, for taxpayers, and foreign countries. It 
has enabled us to resolve intercompany pricing issues to avoid au- 
dits and tax controversies. And the issue we have before us is if 
this information is not treated as confidential and it becomes dis- 
closed, there will be a significant chilling effect on the use of the 
APA program, and we don't think that that is appropriate. 

I would like to thank the chairman and the Committee for the 
progress that you have made in the international tax area and urge 
that H.R. 2018 be adopted. Thank you. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of Kevin Conway, Vice President, Taxes, United Technologies 

Corporation, Hartford, Connecticut, and Vice Chairman, Subcommittee 

on International Taxation, National Association of Manufacturers 

I . I NTRODUCTION 

Chairman Archer, members of the committee, my name is Kevin Conway. I am 
the vice president of taxes for United Technoiogies Corporation. I thank you for this 
opportunity to testify on behaif of the Nationai Association of Manufacturers (NAM). 
The Nationai Association of Manufacturers— "18 miiiion peopie who make things in 



102 


America"— is the nation's largest and oldest multi-industry trade association. The 
NAM represents 14,000 members (including 10,000 small and mid-sized companies) 
and 350 member associations serving manufacturers and employees in every indus- 
trial sector and all 50 states. Headquartered in Washington, D.C., the NAM has 11 
additional offices across the country. 

The NAM has long advocated international tax simplification, which would great- 
ly improve the international competitiveness of U.S. manufacturers and the U.S. 
economy overall. There are many opportunities to improve the international provi- 
sions of the Internal Revenue Code (IRC), and the NAM strongly supports H.R. 
2018, the "International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act of 
1999," by Representatives Houghton (R-31st NY) and Levin (D-12th Ml). However, 
due to time constraints and more extensive coverage of several important issues by 
other members of this panel, I will confine my remarks to four particular areas of 
concern: (1) look-through for 10/50 companies; (2) the 90 percent limitation on for- 
eign tax credits applicable to companies in AMT status; (3) advance pricing agree- 
ment (APA) disclosure; and (4) the 50 percent limitation on foreign sales corporation 
(FSC) benefits applicable to defense exports. 

II. Look-Through for 10/50 Companies 

Until 1997, a separate foreign tax credit (FTC) limitation (i.e., a separate "bas- 
ket") computation was required for dividends received from each "non con trolled Sec- 
tion 902 corporation." A "noncontrol led Section 902 corporation" is a foreign corpora- 
tion that satisfies the stock ownership requirements of I RC section 902(a), yet is not 
a controlled foreign corporation (CFC) under IRC section 957(a). More simply stated, 
these are companies in which U.S. shareholders own at least 10, but no more than 
50, percent of the foreign corporation, hence the name "10/50 company." 

This rule imposed a tremendous compliance burden on multinationals by requir- 
ing extensive, separate bookkeeping. Additionally, it severely constrained the ability 
of U.S. -based multinationals to use their FTCs in the most efficient manner to al- 
leviate double taxation. Only foreign taxes directly associated with a 10/50 com- 
pany's dividends could be credited against the U.S. tax on that 10/50 company's in- 
come, i.e., excess FTCs from other sources could not offset FTC shortfalls of 10/50 
companies, and excess FTCs generated by 10/50 companies could not offset short- 
ages incurred by other companies, even other 10/50 companies. This is a deviation 
from the general rules, which allow "look-through" treatment, as in the case of CFC 
dividends. Furthermore, there is no tax accounting or policy reason for differen- 
tiating between income earned by noncontrolled corporations versus CFCs. 

Look-through rules allow dividend income to be re-characterized in accordance 
with the underlying sources of the payor corporation's income. Thus, dividends asso- 
ciated with overall limitation income would be eligible for inclusion in the overall 
limitation income basket. Under the rules in place before 1998, however, taxpayers 
were not allowed to "look-through" dividends received from 10/50 companies, even 
though 10/50 company dividends are generally derived from overall limitation in- 
come and would otherwise be eligible for inclusion in the overall limitation income 
basket under the look-through rules. 

The 1997 Tax Relief Act corrected this inequity by eliminating separate baskets 
for 10/50 companies. Instead, 10/50 companies are treated just like CFCs, and tax- 
payers can utilize look-through rules for re-characterizing dividend income in ac- 
cordance with the underlying sources of the payor corporation's income. The 1997 
act, however, did not make the change effective for such dividends unless they were 
received after the year 2003 and, even then, required two sets of rules to apply for 
dividends from earnings and profits (E&P) generated before the year 2003, and divi- 
dends from ESiP accumulated after the year 2002. 

The ongoing requirement to use two sets of rules on dividends before the year 
2003 has been a concern of taxpayers, members of Congress, and the Administra- 
tion. Thus, to address the complexity created by this much-delayed effective date, 
the Administration has, as part of both its FY1999 and FY2000 budget proposals, 
recommended accelerating the effective date of the 1997 Tax Act change. The pro- 
posal would apply the look-through rules to all dividends received in tax years after 
1998, no matter when the E&P constituting the makeup of the dividend was accu- 
mulated. 

This change would result in a tremendous reduction in complexity and compliance 
burdens for U.S. multinationals doing business overseas through foreign joint ven- 
tures. It would also reduce the competitive bias against U.S. participation in such 
ventures by placing U.S. companies on a much more level playing field from a cor- 
porate tax standpoint. Finally, this proposal epitomizes the favored policy goal of 



103 


simplicity in the tax laws and will go a long way toward helping the U.S. economy 
by strengthening the competitive position of U.S. -based multinationals. 

III. Foreign Tax Credit Limitations on AMT Companies 

A multinational corporation with a U.S. parent and foreign subsidiaries can be 
double taxed on income earned by its foreign subsidiaries when the income is repa- 
triated to the U.S. parent as a dividend. The U.S. government, recognizing that 
these multiple levels of tax hurt the competitiveness of U.S. corporations, alleviates 
this multiple tax burden by allowing the U.S. company foreign tax credits (FTCs) 
for the income taxes paid to foreign governments. These credits are allowed for 
taxes paid by subsidiaries on dividends which are distributed to the U.S. parent. 
Foreign tax credits are dollar-for-dollar credits that offset U.S. tax liability. Flow- 
ever, the number of these credits that can actually be used to offset the U .S. parent 
tax liability is determined by whether the parent corporation has regular tax liabil- 
ity or alternative minimum tax (AMT) liability. 

Under a regular tax computation, the U.S. parent company can use foreign tax 
credits to offset 100 percent of its U.S. tax liability on the dividends it receives from 
the foreign subsidiary. Flowever, a similar company in AMT status would not be 
permitted to alleviate all of its double taxation. The resulting multiple taxation oc- 
curs because of a provision added to the tax code as part of the Tax Reform Act 
of 1986, providing that only 90 percent of the amount of AMT liability can be offset 
by foreign tax credits. 

The intent of this limitation was to ensure that a U.S. corporation that earned 
U.S. -source income and was profitable on its U.S. operations from a book perspec- 
tive would incur a minimum amount of U.S. taxes. In operation, however, U.S. cor- 
porations that have a substantial amount of foreign source income relative to their 
U.S. -source income or that have taxable losses on their U.S. operations are forced 
to pay U.S. taxes on income already heavily taxed outside the United States. This 
result contravenes the very purpose for which foreign tax credits were created. 

AMT liability by its very nature actually represents a prepaid double taxation. Be- 
cause AMT is a prepayment of taxes, the law allows corporations to accumulate 
credits for AMT taxes that have been paid. 

Theoretically, these credits can ultimately be used when the corporation is no 
longer in AMT status and has fully utilized all other available credits such as for- 
eign tax credits and research and development credits. In reality, a corporation that 
has substantial U.S. -source losses over a number of years or that has substantially 
more foreign source income than U.S. source income may never actually recover the 
taxes it prepaid. In this regard, the provision operates in a punitive manner not an- 
ticipated when the provision was enacted. 

IV. Advance Pricing Agreement (APA) Disclosure 

The Advance Pricing Agreement (APA) program of the Internal Revenue Service 
(IRS) began in 1991 as an innovative way for taxpayers, the IRS, and foreign tax 
agencies to avoid costly litigation and uncertainty over international transfer pric- 
ing— i.e., the appropriate arm's length price for sales, services, licenses and other 
transactions between related parties. The program has been extremely successful 
and is often cited as a model for how the IRS should interact with taxpayers. From 
the beginning of the program, the I RS assured taxpayers. Congress, and foreign gov- 
ernments that any information "received or generated" by the IRS during the APA 
process was "subject to the confidentiality requirements of §6103." (See Rev. Proc. 
91-22 and Rev. Proc. 96-53). Indeed, written assurances of confidentiality have 
often been included in the APA itself. Flowever, in J anuary of this year, as a conces- 
sion in a lawsuit seeking public disclosure brought by the Bureau of National Af- 
fairs (BNA), the IRS unexpectedly reversed its long-standing policy and notified tax- 
payers that APAs are subject to disclosure under I RC §6110— which requires disclo- 
sure of any IRS "written determination." Regardless of the outcome of the pending 
lawsuit, the IRS is proceeding with redaction and release of APAs (now scheduled 
for October 1999) in contravention of both its own prior assurances of confidentiality 
to taxpayers and the express intent of Congress (in 1993) that § 6103 protects APAs 
from disclosure. 

First of all, APAs are not "written determinations" under IRC §6110. In 1976, 
when Congress enacted §6110 to allow disclosure of written determinations, nego- 
tiated taxpayer agreements, such as closing agreements, were specifically excluded 
because "a negotiated settlement ... as such, does not necessarily represent the 
IRS view of the law." (S. Rep. No. 938, 94th Cong. 2d Sess. 306-7 (1976); FI.R. Rep. 
No. 658, 94th Cong., 2d Sess. 316 (1976)). APAs are not written determinations 
(such as private letter rulings) that are unilaterally issued to the taxpayer by the 



104 


IRS and consist of facts, law and the application of the law to the facts. Rather, 
APAs are customized, binding, written contracts that determine specific tax results 
and are carefully negotiated between the taxpayer and the IRS, like closing agree- 
ments, which are not subject to disclosure (Id). APAs are highly factual in nature, 
making a fact-intensive economic determination, not a legal one. 

Second, APAs are protected return information under IRC §6103. In 1993, when 
Congress amended §6103 to add §6103(l)(14), which permits disclosure of certain 
return information to the Customs Service, the Congress expressly exempted APAs 
from such disclosure. This was done because APAs were viewed as return informa- 
tion in the first instance. The legislative history states: 'The effectiveness of the 
APA program relies on voluntary disclosure of sensitive information to the Internal 
Revenue Service: accordingly, information submitted or generated in the APA nego- 
tiating process should remain confidential." See H.R. Report. No. 103-361, Vol. I, 
at 104 (1993). Treasury regulations implementing this provision also expressly de- 
scribe APAs as "return information." See Treas. Reg. 301.6103(1 )(14)- 1(d). Public 
disclosure of APAs is contrary to congressional intent and Treasury's own regula- 
tions. 

Third, redaction of APAs under IRC §6110 will strain IRS and taxpayer re- 
sources. Prior to release of any APAs under §6110, the IRS will be required to re- 
dact any identifying taxpayer information. In addition, the "background files" will 
be subject to disclosure under IRC §6110(b)(2). These background files are volumi- 
nous and contain highly sensitive proprietary data that will have to be reviewed and 
redacted. Redaction, especially of these background files, will strain the resources 
of the I RS and be yet another cost, and likely deterrent, for taxpayers participating 
in the APA program 

Ironically, release and redaction of APAs under IRC §6110 will create costly dis- 
putes and litigation. The APA program was instituted specifically to curtail audit 
disputes and litigation over transfer pricing, but the redaction process required 
under IRC §6110 allows taxpayers and third parties to challenge proposed 
redactions in court, creating a significant risk of even more disputes and litigation. 
Disputes will arise not only between the taxpayer and the IRS over what should 
be redacted, but also between the taxpayer and third parties seeking disclosure, and 
over what is or is not a background file. Release and/or redaction of APAs and the 
background files would be disastrous for both the IRS and the taxpayer, as well as 
for our treaty partners. 

Furthermore, confidentiality is essential to protect taxpayer privacy and to assure 
continuation of the APA program. The APA program has worked because taxpayers 
have trusted the IRS and agreed to voluntarily submit sensitive pricing information 
to the IRS in advance of an audit— based on a promise of confidentiality. Release 
and redaction of APAs and background files would be a betrayal of taxpayers who 
voluntarily submitted sensitive information in the past and a significant deterrent 
to taxpayers contemplating participation in the APA program in the future. In addi- 
tion, an increasing number of APAs are bilateral or multi-lateral involving foreign 
tax authorities and making confidentiality even more important. Our treaty part- 
ners are very concerned about possible breach of the promise of confidentiality in 
the APA program. If taxpayers cannot obtain bilateral APAs because foreign tax au- 
thorities refuse to participate, many taxpayers may decide not to pursue an APA 
at all. IRS's concession has jeopardized the APA program, which has been such a 
successful tool in helping the I RS and taxpayers resolve difficult factual issues with- 
out litigation. 

Finally, disclosure of APAs could jeopardize the confidentiality of competent au- 
thority proceedings and U.S. relationships with foreign governments. When a tax- 
payer's income is potentially subject to tax by both the United States and a foreign 
jurisdiction, the IRS can enter into a negotiation with the foreign "competent au- 
thority" to determine how much tax should be paid to each jurisdiction. These Com- 
petent Authority proceedings are confidential under our tax treaties. Although these 
proceedings involve the elimination of any type of double taxation, they often resolve 
double taxation problems arising from transfer pricing disputes— just like bilateral 
APAs. If APAs are subject to disclosure, there is a real risk Competent Authority 
proceedings could also be disclosed. Any suggestion that Competent Authority pro- 
ceedings should be subject to disclosure would be viewed with tremendous concern 
by our treaty partners and could seriously impair our ability to resolve claims re- 
garding double taxation in the future. 

Congress should promptly confirm that APAs are protected taxpayer information 
under IRC §6103 and not subject to disclosure under IRC §6110. Congressional ac- 
tion is needed to prevent the IRS from breaching its solemn assurances to tax- 
payers, the Congress, and foreign governments that these agreements are confiden- 



105 


tial taxpayer information. Faiiure to take immediate action in this regard wiii se- 
vereiy crippie, if not destroy, theAPA program. 

V. Foreign Sales Corporation (FSC) Benefits for Defense Exports 

The Internai Revenue Code aiiows U.S. companies to estabiish foreign saies cor- 
porations (FSCs), under which they can exempt from U.S. taxation a portion of their 
earnings from foreign saies. This provision is designed to help U.S. firms compete 
against foreign companies relying more on value-added taxes (VATs) than on cor- 
porate income taxes. When products are exported from such countries, the VAT is 
rebated, effectively lowering their prices. U.S. companies, in contrast, must charge 
relatively higher prices in order to obtain a reasonable net profit after taxes have 
been paid. By permitting a share of the profits derived from exports to be excluded 
from corporate income taxes, the FSC in effect allows companies to compete with 
foreign firms that pay less tax. 

In 1976, Congress reduced the Domestic International Sales Corporation (DISC) 
tax benefits for defense products to 50 percent, while retaining the full benefit for 
all other products. The limitation on military sales, currently contained in IRC 
§923(a)(5), was continued when Congress enacted the FSC (which replaced the 
DISC) in 1984. The rationale for this discriminatory treatment— that U.S. defense 
exporters faced little competition— no longer exists. Regardless of the veracity of 
that premise 25 years ago, today military exports are subject to fierce international 
competition in every area. In the mid-1970s, roughly half of all the nations pur- 
chasing defense products benefited from U.S. military assistance. Today, U.S. mili- 
tary assistance has been sharply curtailed and is essentially limited to two coun- 
tries. European and other countries are developing export promotion projects to 
counter the industrial impact of their own declining domestic defense budgets and 
are becoming more competitive internationally. In addition, a number of Western 
purchasers of defense equipment now view Russia and other former Soviet Union 
countries as acceptable suppliers, further increasing the global competition. 

Circumstances have changed dramatically since the tax limitation for defense ex- 
ports was enacted in 1976. Total U.S. defense exports and worldwide defense sales 
have both decreased significantly. Over the past 15 years, the U.S. defense industry 
has experienced spending reductions unlike any other sector of the economy. During 
the Cold War, defense spending averaged around 10 percent of U.S. Gross Domestic 
Product, hitting a peak of 14 percent during the Korean War in the early 1950s and 
gradually dropping to 6-7 percent in the late 1980s. That figure has now sunk to 
3 percent of GDP and is projected to go even lower, to 2.8 percent, by Fiscal Year 
(FY) 2001. 

Since FY85 the defense budget has shrunk from 27.9 percent of the federal budget 
to 14.8 percent in FY99. As a percentage of the discretionary portion of the U.S. 
Government budget, defense has slid from 63.9 percent to 45.8 percent over the 
same time. Moreover, the share of the defense budget spent on the development and 
purchase of equipment— Research, Development, Test and Evaluation (RDT&E) and 
procurement— has contracted. Whereas procurement was 32.2 percent and RDT&E 
10.7 percent of the defense budget in FY85— for a total of 42.9 percent; those propor- 
tions are now 18.5 percent and 13.9 percent, respectively— for a total of 32.4 per- 
cent. 

Obviously, statistics such as these are indicative that the U.S. defense industry 
has lost much of its economic robustness. This is additionally evidenced by massive 
consolidation and job loss in the defense industry. Of the top 20 defense contractors 
in 1990, two-thirds of the companies have merged, been sold or spun off, and hun- 
dreds of thousands of jobs have been eliminated in the industry. 

Budget issues are always a concern to lawmakers. TheJ oint Tax Committee esti- 
mates that extending the full FSC benefit to defense exports will likely cost about 
$340 million over five years. Flowever, this expense is justified by both overriding 
policy concerns and sound tax policy. With the sharp decline in the defense budget 
over the past 15 years, exports of defense products have become ever more critical 
to maintaining a viable U.S. defense industrial base. Key U.S. defense programs 
rely on international sales to keep production lines open and to reduce unit costs. 
Repeal will benefit not only the large manufacturers of military hardware, but also 
the smaller munitions manufacturers, whose products are particularly sensitive to 
price fluctuations. 

The recent decision to transfer jurisdiction of commercial satellites from the Com- 
merce Department to the State Department illustrates the fickleness of Section 
923(a)(5). When the Commerce Department regulated the export of commercial sat- 
ellites, the satellite manufacturers received the full FSC benefit. Since the Congress 
transferred export control jurisdiction to the State Department, the identical sat- 



106 


ellites, manufactured in the same facility, by the same hard-working employees, no 
longer receive the same tax benefit. Because these satellites are now classified as 
munitions, their FSC benefit has been cut in half. This result demonstrates the in- 
equity of singling out one class of products for different tax treatment than every 
other product manufactured in America. 

The Cox Committee, recognizing the absurdity of the situation, recommended that 
the Congress take action to correct this inequity as it applies to satellites. The Ad- 
ministration has agreed with this recommendation. Section 303 would not only cor- 
rect the satellite problem, but would also change the law so that all U.S. exports 
are treated the same under the F SC. 

Repeal of Section 923(a)(5) of the tax code does not alter U.S. export licensing pol- 
icy. Military sales will continue to be subject to the license requirements of the 
Arms Export Control Act. Exporters will be able to take advantage of the FSC only 
after the U.S. Government has determined that a sale is in the national interest. 

Decisions on whether to allow a defense export sale should continue to be made 
on foreign policy grounds. Flowever, once a decision has been made that an export 
is consistent with those interests, our government should encourage that such or- 
ders are filled by U.S. companies and workers, not by our foreign competitors. Dis- 
criminating against these sales in the tax code puts our defense industry at great 
disadvantage and makes no sense. Removing this provision of the tax code will fur- 
ther our foreign policy objectives by making defense products more competitive in 
the international market. 


VI . Conclusion 

In conclusion, the NAM has long advocated overhaul of the overly complex and 
arcane international tax provisions in the Internal Revenue Code and complete re- 
peal of the punitive alternative minimum tax (AMT). While the opportunities for im- 
provement in the code are numerous, the NAM strongly endorses FI.R. 2018, the 
"International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act of 1999," and 
the simplification provisions therein as a significant step toward improving the com- 
petitiveness of U.S. -based manufacturers. Flowever, we would also urge the com- 
mittee to address the impending disclosure by IRS of advance pricing agreements 
(APAs) by clarifying their status as return information under I.R.C. §6103. 

With only about four percent of the world’s population residing in the United 
States, international trade is no longer a luxury but necessary to the survival and 
growth of U.S. -based manufacturers. While U.S. negotiators have actively pursued 
an increasing number of trade agreements to improve access to overseas markets, 
a major impediment to trade sits in our own backyard, namely the U.S. tax code. 
The NAM thanks the Committee on Ways and Means for recognizing the barriers 
our tax code imposes and the decreased competitiveness that results. Flearings such 
as this one are the first step to achieving significant reform. Thank you for sched- 
uling this hearing to address these important issues and for allowing me to testify 
today on the NAM's behalf. 


Chairman Archer. Thank you, Mr. Conway. Mr. Mogenson, you 
may proceed. 

STATEMENT OF HARVEY B. MOGENSON, MANAGING DIREC- 
TOR, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO.; ON BEHALF OF 
THE COALITION OF SERVICE INDUSTRIES 

Mr. Mogenson. Mr. Chairman, Members of the Committee, my 
name is Harvey Mogenson. i am a managing director at Morgan 
Staniey Dean Witter responsibie for internationai tax matters for 
the company. Morgan Staniey Dean Witter is a giobai finandai 
services firm and a market ieader in securities, asset management, 
and credit and transaction services. We have offices in New York, 
London, Tokyo, Hong Kong, and aii of the other principai finandai 
centers around the worid. 

However, today i am testifying on behaif of the Coaiition of Serv- 
ices industries, CSi. CSi was estabiished in 1982 to create greater 



107 


awareness of the major role services industry play in our national 
economy, to promote the expansion of business opportunities 
abroad for U.S. services, and to encourage the U.S. leadership in 
attaining a fair and competitive global marketplace. CSI represents 
a broad array of U.S. service industries, including financial, tele- 
communications, professional, travel, transportation, information, 
and information technology sectors. 

I would like to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for holding this impor- 
tant meeting today regarding the U.S. tax rules and their impact 
on the competitiveness of U.S. corporations doing business abroad. 
I also want to thank Mr. Houghton and Mr. Levin and other Mem- 
bers of the Ways and Means Committee and members who have 
joined them in introducing H.R. 2018, the International Tax Sim- 
plification For American Competitiveness Act of 1999. And also I 
would like to thank Mr. McCrery and Mr. Neal for the work that 
they are doing in this area. 

Although my limited grey hair belies the fact, I have been prac- 
ticing international tax for 18 years. I can personally attest that 
the U.S. international tax laws are complex, cumbersome, and can 
stifle competitiveness of U.S. companies doing business abroad. Be- 
cause of this, international tax reform is a critical element of an 
effective U.S. tax and trade policy. 

While U.S. trade policy has concentrated on opening world mar- 
kets to U.S. companies, particularly in the service sector, the U.S. 
tax policy has not always moved in the same direction. As trade 
policy moves into the 21st century, it seems our international tax 
policy still reflects the business environment of the sixties, as 
elaborated on by the previous panel in citing the statistics regard- 
ing the segments of our economy at that time. That is why we 
strongly support the provisions of the Houghton-Levin Simplifica- 
tion bill. Further, as part of that bill, CSI believes that the active 
financing exception to subpart F for financial services companies 
active business foreign earnings should be extended with other ex- 
piring provisions for as long as possible. 

To understand how important the U.S. tax laws are to companies 
operating abroad, perhaps I will elaborate on why U.S. firms and 
financial service companies in particular go overseas in the first 
place. As the world economy has been increasingly global in nature, 
the need to secure new markets for U.S. corporations has intensi- 
fied. As those companies, who are our clients, expand overseas, the 
financial services firms have had to go and do the same thing in 
order to support the global expansion of those companies. In es- 
sence, financial services companies are in the foreign markets ini- 
tially because that is where our customers are. Thus, as our cus- 
tomers have become global, we have had to also become global 
rather than lose that business to our global competitors. 

Also, the U.S. financial markets are mature and it is anticipated 
that much of the growth in the financial services industry will 
come in foreign marketplaces as they open up to the type of devel- 
opment that we have seen in the U.S. financial services market- 
place. 

Many financial service companies have also had a local presence 
abroad because we are heavily regulated and required to conduct 
business through local companies. For example, insurance and re- 



108 


insurance companies, like securities dealers— my company— are re- 
quired to maintain significant levels of capital with minimum sol- 
vency thresholds in order to be licensed to operate in the foreign 
jurisdiction. In addition, these regulated companies are subject to 
stringent regulation that constrains the movement of capital, re- 
gardless of whether such income has or has not been subject to 
U.S. taxation. 

Most global services firms, therefore, including Morgan Stanley 
Dean Witter, have operated through locally incorporated and regu- 
lated affiliates in the major commercial centers. 

As a way of background to the legislative approach to active fi- 
nancing exception, I would just like to say that in 1986, Congress 
repeal^ the active financing exception because of the concerns 
over active and passive income. In 1997 and 1998, those concerns 
were revisited and a compromise was crafted to focus on the active 
activities of financial services firms that do conduct substantial ac- 
tivities in the home country. Active financial services, as we have 
heard, is recognized by our major trading partners as active busi- 
ness income. Thus, if the current law provision were permitted to 
expire at the end of this year, U.S. financial services companies 
would find themselves at a significant competitive disadvantage 
vis-a-vis all of our major competitors operating outside the United 
States. 

Also, because the active financing exception is currently tem- 
porary, it denies U.S. companies of a certainty their foreign com- 
petitors have. I will conclude my remarks there. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of Harvey B. Mogenson, Managing Director, Morgan Stanley 
Dean Witter & Co.; on behalf of the Coalition of Service I ndustries 

Introduction 

Mr. Chairman and distinguished Members of the Committee: 

My name is Harvey Mogenson, I am a Managing Director at Morgan Staniey 
Dean Witter & Co. (MSDW). MSDW is a giobai finandai services firm and a market 
ieader in securities, asset management, and credit and transaction services. The 
Firm has offices in New York, London, Tokyo, Hong Kong and other principai finan- 
dai centers around the worid and has 456 securities branch offices throughout the 
United States. I am testifying today on behaif of the Coaiition of Services Industries 
(CSI). CSI was estabiished in 1982 to create greater awareness of the major role 
services industries play in our national economy: promote the expansion of business 
opportunities abroad for U.S. services, and encourage U.S. leadership in attaining 
a fair and competitive global marketplace. CSI represents a broad array of U.S. 
service industries including the financial, telecommunications, professional, travel, 
transportation, information and information technology sectors. 

I want to thank you, Mr. Chairman for holding this important hearing on the im- 
pact U.S. tax rules have on the competitiveness of U.S. corporations doing business 
abroad. I also want to thank Mssrs. Houghton and Levin and the other Ways & 
Means Committee Members who have joined them in introducing H.R. 2018, the 
I nternational Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act of 1999. 

U.S. international tax laws are complex, cumbersome, and can stifle the competi- 
tiveness of U.S. companies doing business overseas. Because of this, international 
tax reform is a critical element of an effective U.S. trade policy. While U.S. trade 
policy has concentrated on opening world markets to U.S. companies, our tax policy 
has not always moved in the same direction. As trade policy moves into the 21st 
Century, it seems our international tax policy still reflects the business environment 
of the '60s. That is why we strongly support the provisions in the Houghton-Levin 
Simplification bill. And, as part of that bill, CSI believes that the active financing 
exception to subpart F for financial services companies’ active business foreign earn- 
ings should be extended with the other expiring provisions for as long as possible. 



109 


Why Financial Services Companies Operate Overseas 

To understand how important U.S. international tax laws are to companies oper- 
ating abroad, it may be useful to elaborate on why U.S. firms, and financial services 
companies in particular, go overseas in the first place. 

As the world economy has become increasingly global in nature, the need to se- 
cure new markets for U.S. corporations has intensified. As those companies expand 
overseas, financial services firms have had to do the same in order to support that 
global expansion and to stake out new markets for themselves. In essence, financial 
services companies are in foreign markets because that is where our customers are 
(both domestic and foreign). Thus, as our customers have become more global, we 
have also become global rather than lose the business to our global competitors. 
Also, the U.S. financial markets are mature and much of the growth in the industry 
will come in foreign markets as they open up to the type of development we have 
seen in the US financial services market-place. 

You will hear today from manufacturing companies such as United Technologies, 
which owns Otis Elevator Company. Otis maintains a presence overseas in order to 
service and maintain the elevators they sell around the world. In much the same 
way financial services companies, be they banks, securities, finance or insurance 
companies, need to have a local presence to market, service and maintain financial 
services to their customers. As with other non-financial companies that need to be 
close to their customers because of the proximity to raw materials and other inputs, 
financial services companies need access to the local debt and financial markets to 
facilitate their lending and securities activities. In most cases, such access provides 
us with lower cost of funds and protection against currency fluctuations. 

Many financial services companies also have a local presence because they are 
heavily regulated businesses and foreign rules dictate that they conduct business 
through local companies. In the case of insurance and reinsurance companies, they 
are required to maintain significant levels of capital with minimum solvency thresh- 
olds in order to be licensed in a foreign jurisdiction. In addition, insurers are subject 
to stringent regulation that constrain the movement of capital. 

Most global securities firms, including Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, have locally 
incorporated and regulated affiliates in the major commercial centers within Europe 
(London, Frankfurt, Paris, Milan) and Asia (Tokyo, Flong Kong, Singapore, Sydney). 
Because each jurisdiction asserts full r^ulatory control for activities within its 
country, local subsidiaries are used to avoid overlapping regulatory supervision. 

Legislative Background on Active Financing Exception 

When subpart F was first enacted in 1962, the original intent was to provide de- 
ferral for foreign operating income, and require current U.S. taxation of foreign in- 
come of U.S. multinational corporations that was passive in nature. The 1962 law 
was careful not to subject active financial services business income to current tax- 
ation through a series of detailed carve-outs. In particular, dividends, interest and 
certain gains derived in the active conduct of a banking, financing, or similar busi- 
ness, or derived by an insurance company on investments of unearned premiums 
or certain reserves were specifically excluded from current taxation if such income 
was earned from activities with unrelated parties. 

In 1986, Congress repealed deferral of controlled foreign corporation's active fi- 
nancial services business income in response to concerns about the difficulty in dis- 
tinguishing between active and passive income. In 1997, the 1986 rules were revis- 
ited, and an exception to the subpart F rules was added for the active income of 
U.S. based financial services companies, along with rules to ensure that the excep- 
tion would not be available for passive income. The active financing income provi- 
sion was revised in 1998, in the context of extending the provision for the 1999 tax 
year, and changes were made to focus the provision on active overseas financial 
services businesses that perform substantial activities in their home country. 

Active financial services income is recognized by our major trading partners as 
active trade or business income. Thus, if the current law provision were permitted 
to expire at the end of this year, U.S. financial services companies would find them- 
selves at a significant competitive disadvantage vis-a-vis all their major foreign com- 
petitors when operating outside the United States. In addition, because the U .S. ac- 
tive financing exception is currently temporary, it denies U.S. companies the cer- 
tainty their foreign competitors have. The need for certainty in this area cannot be 
overstated. U.S. financial services institutions need to know the tax consequences 
of their business operations, especially since many client transactions may be mul- 
tiple year commitments or arrangements. 



110 


A comparative review of current U.S. iaw with the iaws of foreign countries con- 
ducted by the Nationai Foreign Trade Councii, IncT shows that the United States 
imposes a stricter anti-deferrai poiicy on U.S. -based finandai services companies 
than Canada, France, Germany, J apan and The Netheriands. None of the countries 
iisted eliminates deferral for active financial services income. For example, "German 
law merely requires that the income must be earned by a bank with a commercially 
viable office established in the CFC's jurisdiction and that the income results from 
transactions with customers. Germany does not require that the CFG conduct the 
activities generating the income or that the income come from transactions with 
customers solely in the CFC's country of incorporation. The United Kingdom has an 
even less restrictive deferral regime than Germany. The United Kingdom does not 
impose current taxation on CFC income as long as the CFC is engaged primarily 
in legitimate business activities primarily with unrelated parties. In sum, current 
U.S. treatment of CFC active financing income is more restrictive than the treat- 
ment afforded such CFC income by many of the United States' competitors." ^ 

The Active Financing Exception is Essential to the Competitive Position of 
American Financial Services Industries in the Global Marketplace 

The financial services sector is one of the fast growing components of the U.S. 
trade in services surplus (which is expected to exceed $80 billion this year). It is 
therefore in the economic interest of the United States that the Congress act to 
maintain a tax structure that does not hinder the competitive efforts of the U.S. fi- 
nancial services industry. While the economic research is continuing, there seems 
to be a growing awareness of the benefits to the U.S. economy of strong U.S. -based 
global companies. And, certainly in the case of a financial services company like 
MSDW, our global reach has allowed us to be a stronger competitor and more suc- 
cessful within the U.S. 

The growing interdependence of world financial markets has highlighted the ur- 
gent need to rationalize U.S. tax rules that undermine the ability of American finan- 
cial services industries to compete in the international arena. From a tax policy per- 
spective, financial services businesses should be eligible for the same U.S. tax treat- 
ment of worldwide income as that of manufacturing and other non-financial busi- 
nesses. The inequitable treatment of financial services industries under prior law 
jeopardizes the international expansion and competitiveness of U.S. -based financial 
services companies, including finance and credit entities, commercial banks, securi- 
ties firms, insurance, and reinsurance companies. 

This active financing provision is particularly important today as the U.S. finan- 
cial services industry is the global leader and plays a pivotal role in maintaining 
confidence in the international marketplace. Also, recently concluded trade negotia- 
tions have opened new foreign markets for this industry, and it is essential that our 
tax laws complement this trade liberalization effort. We hope the Congress will not 
allow the tax code to revert to penalizing U.S. -based companies upon the expiration 
of the temporary provision this year. 

The Active Financing Exception Should be Extended for as Long as Possible 

According to the floor statement of Mr. Floughton during the debate on the Con- 
ference Report of the Tax Act of 1997, the fact that the original active financing ex- 
ception would sunset after one year was "a function of revenue concerns, not doubts 
as to its substantive merit. Indeed, even in the course of subjecting this provision 
to a presidential line-item veto, the Clinton Administration acknowledged, and con- 
tinues to acknowledge that the "primary purpose of the provision was proper. 

Understanding that revenue constraints can impact U.S. tax policy considerations, 
extending the provision for as long as possible would greatly enhance the competi- 
tive position of the U.S. financial services industry as they compete in the global 
marketplace. Otherwise, the international growth of American finance and credit 
companies, banks, securities firms, insurance and reinsurance companies will con- 
tinue to be impaired by an on-again, off-again system of annual extensions that does 
not allow for certainty. 


'‘■The NFTC Foreign Income Prqect: International Tax Policy For The 21st Century A Report 
and Analysis Prepared by the National Foreign Trade Coundl, I nc. 

‘^The NFTC Foreign Income Project. International Tax Policy For The 21st Century p 4-11. 
3 Congressional Record,) uly 31, 1997. 

‘‘White House Statement, August 11, 1997. 



Ill 


Conclusion 

On behalf of the entire U.S. financial services industry and the Coalition of Serv- 
ices Industries, I want to thank you Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee 
for your efforts to improve the international rules that affect not only the financial 
services industry but all U.S. corporations operating overseas. We urge the Com- 
mittee to support H.R. 2018 which would provide a more consistent, equitable and 
stable international tax regime for the U.S. financial services industry. 


Chairman Archer. Thank you, Mr. Mogenson. I am sure all the 
witnesses hear those buzzers, which mean that we are being sum- 
moned to vote on the floor of the House. We have 10 more minutes 
before we have to be over there. We will proceed for at least one 
more witness and then we will have to recess and vote. Two votes 
will be taken so it will be a while before we get back. Mr. Chip, 
you may proceed. 

STATEMENT OF WILLIAM W. CHIP, CHAIRMAN, TAX COM- 
MITTEE, EUROPEAN-AMERICAN BUSINESS COUNCIL, AND 

PRINCIPAL, DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP 

Mr. Chip. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. I am an international tax 
lawyer. I have been practicing for 20 years. I am testifying today 
for the European-American Business Council. The Council is an al- 
liance of U.S. companies that have operations in Europe and Euro- 
pean companies that have operations in the United States. Our 
membership has a lot of experience in the relative impact of the 
U.S. tax rules compared to foreign tax rules. 

Mr. Chairman, I would agree with you that— what you said this 
morning— that if we were to replace our income tax system with a 
sales tax system that raised the same amount of revenue, that 
would almost certainly confer a significant competitive advantage 
on the United States. One reason it would is because most of our 
competitors have income tax systems that, while more competitive 
than ours, are not completely competitive. 

Understanding what makes a competitive tax system and why 
ours is not is actually not that hard. I think in an ideal system, 
each country would tax the business income locally generate at a 
rate sufficient to pay for roads and education and other things 
needed to make that a desirable place to do business. And the in- 
come would not be taxed again until it was distributed to the indi- 
vidual owners of the enterprise to pay for things that their resident 
country needed to make it a safe and pleasant place to live. 

The reason the U.S. tax system is uncompetitive is very simple. 
Between the time the income is earned overseas and distributed to 
the U.S. owners or the foreign owners, we impose an extra level of 
tax at the U.S. corporate level when that income is brought back 
to the United States to be distributed to shareholders or invested 
in the United States. For example, if we pay a lower rate of tax 
in Ireland on operations there, the United States will impose a tax 
in the United States equal to the difference between the United 
States and the foreign tax rate. 

What if a foreign operation had lower electricity charges? What 
if we imposed a charge at the U.S. level on the difference between 
U.S. electricity rates and foreign electricity rates and the difference 



112 


between U.S. labor rates. It is not that hard to understand why the 
income tax system makes U.S. companies uncompetitive. 

This innate uncompetitive feature of the U.S. tax law has been 
with us from the beginning and has been exacerbated, rather than 
created, by Subpart F, which requires that this extra level of cor- 
porate tax be imposed in many cases even if the income has not 
been brought back to the United States. 

In particular, I would like to focus on the foreign base company 
rules, which provide that if a foreign subsidiary of a U.S. company 
conducts sales and services activities outside the country where it 
is incorporated, the income from that activity is immediately taxed 
by the United States at whatever the U.S. rate is over the local 
rate. This is a problem for U.S. companies everywhere, but it is 
particularly a problem for us in the European Union. 

The European Union is a single marketplace. You can be a suc- 
cessful global business without having an operation in Nigeria or 
Thailand, but you cannot be a global competitor unless you have 
a substantial, profitable, cutting-edge operation in the European 
Union. U.S. companies are fiercely competing with European com- 
panies to reorganize themselves and structure themselves to take 
advantage of the common market there. The Subpart F rules which 
treat an operation that is incorporated in one EU country, but 
takes place in another EU country, as, in effect, tax-shelter income 
that must immediately be taxed by the United States, is a very se- 
rious impediment to the rationalization of U.S. business in the Eu- 
ropean Union. 

That is why we are, of course, very grateful that Mr. Floughton 
and Mr. Levin in their bill have asked for a study to identify the 
consequences of this and to propose solutions. I would say that the 
business community, almost since Subpart F was enacted, have 
been complaining and pointing out to the Congress the tremendous 
competitive disadvantage they suffer in structuring their European 
operations and taking advantage of European economic integration 
that this rule has imposed upon them. 

So, in closing, I would like to thank the chairman for calling 
these hearings. This is a very important subject. I am also very in- 
terested in the United States staying on top and I hate to see our 
rules pushing us in any other direction. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of William W. Chip, Chairman, Tax Committee, European- 
American Business Council, and Principal, Deloitte & Touche LLP 

My name is Bill Chip. I am a principal in Deloitte & Touche, an international 
tax, accounting, and business consulting firm. I have been engaged in international 
tax practice for 20 years. 

I am testifying today as Chairman of the Tax Committee of the European-Amer- 
ican Business Council (EABC). The EABC is an alliance of 85 multinational enter- 
prises with headquarters in the United States and Europe. A list of EABC members 
is attached. Because the EABC membership includes both US companies with Euro- 
pean operations and European companies with U.S. operations, the EABC brings a 
unique but practical perspective on how the U.S. international tax rules impact the 
competitiveness of U.S. companies operating in the European Union (EU)— the 
world’s largest marketplace. 

The points I would I ike to make today may be summarized as follows: 

1. U.S. international tax rules foster tax neutrality between U.S. companies, but 
not between U.S. companies and foreign companies. 



113 


2. In order for U.S.-parented companies to be truly competitive in a globalized 
economy, the U .S. should not impose a corporate income tax on income from foreign 
operations. 

3. The enhanced power of the IRS to police transfer pricing has eliminated the 
most important rationale for the subpart F rules, which should therefore be relaxed. 

4. The anticompetitive flaws in the U.S. system cannot be fully corrected without 
attending to other problems, such as the taxation of dividends with no credit for cor- 
porate-level taxes. 

5. Certain changes are urgently needed pending more fundamental reforms: (1) 
the EU should be treated as a single country under the subpart F rules; (2) the U.S. 
should agree to binding arbitration of transfer pricing disputes; and (3) the rules 
for allocating interest between U.S. and foreign income should be made economically 
realistic. 

6. Many problems faced by U.S. companies operating internationally cannot be re- 
solved by U.S. tax policy alone, and the U.S. should take the lead in erecting an 
international tax system that does not impede cross-border business activity. 

The EABC welcomes the Chairman's interest in reforming this country's inter- 
national tax rules. Those rules have always had a negative impact on the ability 
of U.S. companies to compete overseas. Flowever, this anticompetitive impact has 
been masked during most of this century by several U.S. business advantages, in- 
cluding the world's largest domestic economy as a base, a commanding technological 
lead in many industries, and sanctuary from the destruction of two world wars. 
Flowever, 50 years of peace and the rapid spread of new technologies have leveled 
these advantages and exposed the anticompetitive thrust of our international tax re- 
gime. 

I would go so far as to say that the U.S. rules with respect to income produced 
overseas were written without any regard whatsoever for their impact on competi- 
tiveness. Their goal instead was to ensure that any income controlled by a U.S. per- 
son was eventually subject to U.S. tax. Thus, income of foreign subsidiaries is taxed 
at the full U.S. corporate rate when distributed to the U.S. parent (with a credit 
for any foreign income taxes) and then taxed again (with no credit for either U.S. 
or foreign income taxes) when distributed to the U.S. shareholders. The imposition 
of U.S. tax is accelerated when foreign earnings are redeployed from one foreign 
subsidiary to another and also, under subpart F, when the foreign income is one 
of the many types that Congress feared could otherwise be "sheltered" in a "tax 
haven." 

These rules do have the effect of neutralizing the impact of foreign taxes on com- 
petition between U.S. companies. Because all foreign earnings must eventually bear 
the full U.S. tax rate, a U .S. company that produces in a low-tax foreign jurisdiction 
enjoys at most a temporary tax advantage over one that produces in the U.S.. Like- 
wise, because all earnings of U.S. companies eventually bear the same U.S. cor- 
porate tax rate, the presence or absence of a shareholder-level credit for corporate 
taxes is immaterial in a shareholder's decision to invest in one U.S. company rather 
than in another. 

In contrast, the U.S. tax system does not neutralize the impact of taxes on com- 
petition between U.S. and foreign companies. At the shareholder level, the absence 
of a credit for corporate-level taxes favors investments in low-taxed foreign compa- 
nies over their U.S. equivalents. At the corporate level, if the costs of producing a 
product, including tax costs, are lower in a foreign country such as Ireland than 
they are in the U.S., our free trade rules will likely result in U.S. customers pur- 
chasing the Irish product rather than the equivalent U.S. product. Flowever, if a 
U.S. owner of an Irish enterprise must also pay the excess of U.S. over the Irish 
tax rate, then the Irish enterprise will likely end up being owned by a foreign com- 
pany whose home country does not tax the Irish earnings, taxes them later, or pro- 
vides a more liberal foreign tax credit. 

These competitive disadvantages are aggravated by business globalization. Owing 
to the internationalization of capital markets, an ever-larger percentage of U.S. 
shareholders are able and willing to invest in foreign corporations and mutual 
funds, impairing the ability of U.S. companies to raise capital for their overseas op- 
erations even in the U.S. capital markets. The electronic revolution in communica- 
tions and computing has also globalized the economic production process. Economic 
output is increasingly the consequence of coordinated activity in a number of dif- 
ferent countries, expanding the range of products impacted by anticompetitive tax 
rules. If the Irish enterprise in the foregoing example is an integral part of a global 
activity, U.S. companies may lose the opportunity to sell, not only thelrish product, 
but also any integral U.S. products. 

The U.S. system leads to very anomalous results. Consider a U.S. company with 
a German and Irish subsidiary, then consider three identical companies, except that 



114 


the U.S. and Irish companies are subsidiaries of the German company. The U.S. 
wouid never dream of trying to tax the income of the Irish subsidiary in the second 
case, but in the first case insists on taxing it when the income is repatriated, if not 
sooner. There is no reason why this shouid be so. Most countries, iike the U .S., have 
a progressive income tax for individuais and, above a certain ievei, a virtuaiiy fiat 
income tax for corporations. That being the case, there is a reason for imposing 
sharehoider-ievei taxes on dividends received from iocai and foreign corporations (ai- 
though there shouid be a credit for taxes paid at the corporate ievei). There is no 
reason for imposing a iocai corporate tax on foreign earnings as they make their 
way from the foreign subsidiary to the uitimate individuai sharehoiders. 

Nowhere is the anti-competitive burden imposed by U.S. tax ruies more evident 
and damaging than in the appiication of the U.S. "subpart F" ruies to U.S. -owned 
enterprises in theEU. The subpart F ruies were intended to prevent U.S. companies 
from avoiding U.S. taxes by sheitering mobiie income in "tax havens." The impact 
of these ruies is exacerbated by the fact that since 1986 any country with an effec- 
tive tax rate not more than 90% of the U.S. rate is effectiveiy treated as a tax 
haven. Even the United Kingdom, an industriaiized welfare state with a modern tax 
system, is treated as a tax haven by subpart F because its 30% corporate rate is 
oniy 86% of the U.S. corporate rate. (If the U.S. corporate tax rate when subpart 
F was enacted were the benchmark, the U .S. today would itself be considered a tax 
haven.) 

Because Congress perceived that selling and services were relatively mobile activi- 
ties that could be separated from manufacturing and located in tax havens, the "for- 
eign base company" rules of subpart F immediately tax income earned by U.S. -con- 
trolled foreign corporations from sales or services to related companies in other ju- 
risdictions. Consider the impact of this rule on a U.S. company that already has op- 
erations in several EU countries but wishes to rationalize those operations in order 
to take advantage of the single market. Such a company may find it most efficient 
to locate personnel or facilities used in certain sales and service activities in a single 
location or at least to manage them from a single location. While a number of fac- 
tors will affect the choice of location, all enterprises, whether U.S. -owned or EU- 
owned, will favor those locations that impose the lowest EU tax burden on the activ- 
ity. Flowever, if the enterprise is U.S. -owned, the subpart F rules may eliminate any 
locational tax efficiency by immediately imposing an income tax effectively equal to 
the excess of the U.S. tax rate over the local tax rate. Thus, U.S. companies are 
penalized for setting up their EU operations in the manner that minimizes their EU 
tax burden (even though reduction of EU income taxes will increase the U.S. taxes 
collected when the earnings are repatriated). It makes as little sense for the U.S. 
to penalize its companies in this way as it would for the EU to impose a special 
tax on European companies that based their U.S. sales and service activities in the 
U.S. States that imposed the least tax on those activities. 

The subpart F rules were enacted mostly out of concern that certain types of in- 
come could readily be shifted into "tax havens." Flowever, the term tax haven is mis- 
leading. Taxes are only one of many costs that enter into the production process and 
into the decision where to conduct a particular activity. Some countries have low 
taxes, but others have low labor or energy costs or a favorable climate or location. 
If an enterprise is actually conducted in a low-tax jurisdiction, it is anticompetitive 
for the U.S. to impose (let alone accelerate) corporate taxes on the income properly 
attributable to that enterprise, just as it would be anticompetitive to impose a 
charge equal to any excess of U .S. over foreign labor or energy costs. The imposition 
of taxes or other charges that offset the competitive advantage of the foreign enter- 
prise will simply cause the enterprise to be owned by a non-U .S. competitor that 
does not have subpart F rules. 

When subpart F was enacted. Congress seemed to be concerned that U.S. compa- 
nies might arbitrarily attribute excessive amounts of income to their low-taxed for- 
eign operations. Whether or not such concern was warranted then, it is not war- 
ranted now. Since 1994 U.S. companies have been subject to draconian penalties on 
any substantial failure to price their international transactions at arm's length. 
Moreover, most of our competitors, and even less developed countries such as Mex- 
ico and Brazil, have followed suit and greatly enhanced their enforcement of the 
arm’s length standard. Flaving endowed the IRS with "weapons of mass destruction" 
in the field of transfer pricing. Congress can now afford to retire much of the obso- 
lete subpart F armory. 

I would be remiss not to acknowledge that the globalization of business poses im- 
portant challenges to tax administrators in the U.S. and elsewhere. Ever greater 
shares of the nation's income derives from cross-border activity, while ever increas- 
ing integration of cross-border activity makes it harder to determining the source 
of business income. The IRS and most foreign tax authorities are well aware of 



115 


these challenges and are working to surmount them. Indeed, the enhanced attention 
to transfer pricing Is one of the more Important and obvious responses to the 
globalization challenge. 

The efforts of the U.S. and other countries to ensure receipt of their "fair share" 
of global tax revenues through transfer pricing enforcement points also to a need 
for increased international cooperation. For example, each country is likely to view 
arm's length transfer pricing as the pricing that maximizes the amount of local in- 
come. Flence the need for international mechanisms which ensure that the calcula- 
tion of national incomes under national transfer pricing policies does not add up to 
more than 100% of a company's global income. Unfortunately, although all tax trea- 
ties provide a mechanism for reaching agreement on transfer pricing, very few re- 
quire that the countries actually reach agreement, meaning there is no guarantee 
against double taxation. Even more unfortunately, the U.S. is opposing such re- 
quirements. For example, while the EU countries have entered into a convention 
that requires arbitration of international transfer pricing disputes, the U.S. has de- 
clined to exchange the notes that would effectuate the arbitration clauses of the few 
U.S. tax treaties that have them. For that reason the EABC strongly recommends 
that the U.S. enter into negotiations with the EU members states to extend the 
principles of the EU convention to transfer pricing disputes between the U.S. and 
EU members. 

International cooperation does not mean that tax rates should be harmonized or 
even that the calculation of taxable income should be harmonized. In fact, 
unharmonized tax rates are a good thing, because tax competition is a useful coun- 
terweight to the many pressures on government to increase taxes and spending. For 
that reason the EABC shares many of the concerns outlined in the response of the 
Business and Industry Advisory Committee (BIAC) to the report on "FI armful Tax 
Competition" by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development 
(OECD). There is genuine alarm within the business community that some OECD 
members are responding in an anticompetitive way to the challenges of 
globalization. Rather than working cooperatively to construct an international tax 
system that ensures income is properly attributed to the jurisdiction where it origi- 
nates and not taxed more than once, some countries seem more interested in maxi- 
mizing the reach of their tax jurisdiction and capturing any income under the con- 
trol of companies that are headquartered locally. The efforts of the present U.S. Ad- 
ministration to expand the scope of subpart F by regulation and legislation reflect 
such an approach and should be rejected by the Congress. 

I am worried about a deep and growing divide between the business community 
and the tax authorities in many industrialized countries on how to manage the fis- 
cal challenges of business globalization. At the EABC's recent Transatlantic Tax 
Conference, officials of the U.S., EU, and OECD discussed "harmful tax competition" 
and other current issues with tax leaders from BIAC and from leading U.S. and EU 
business organizations. EU business was as frustrated with the inability of the EU 
member states to eliminate obstacles to cross-border business integration and divi- 
dend/royalty payments as was U.S. business with IRS Notices 98-11 and 98-35. All 
business representatives were concerned that the OECD seemed less intent on 
eliminating tax obstacles to an efficient international economy than on attempting 
to freeze in place existing revenue sources. 

The EABC welcomes attention by the U.S. Congress to how the U.S. tax system 
impacts business decisionmaking and is ready to work with your Committee to iden- 
tify urgently needed reforms. 


Members of the European-American Business Council 


ABB 

ABN Amro Bank 
AgrEvo 

Airbus Industrie 
AirTouch Communications 
I nc. 

Akin, Gump, Strauss, 
Flauer & Feld 
Akzo Nobel I nc. 

Andersen Worldwide 
Astra Pharmaceutical 
Products Inc. 


AT&T 

BASF Corporation 
BAT Industries 
Bell Atlantic I nc. 

Bell South Corporation 
BMW (US) Holding 
Corporation 
BP America, I nc. 

BT North America, Inc. 
Cable & Wireless 
Chubb Corporation 
Citicorp/Citibank 


Cleary, Gottlieb, Steen & 
Hamilton 

Compagnie Financiere de 
CIC et de I 'Union 
Europeenne 
Credit Suisse 
DaimlerChrysler 
Deloitte & Touche LLP 
DIHC 

Dun & Bradstreet 
Corporation 

Eastman Kodak Company 



116 


ED&F Man Inc. 

EDS Corporation 
Ericsson Corporation 
Finmeccanica 
Ford Motor Company 
Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher 
Giaxo Inc. 

IBM Corporation 
I Cl Americas Inc. 

I NG Capital Flolding 
Corporation 
I nvestor I nternational 
Koninklijke Floogovens 
NV 

Linklaters & Paines 
Lucent Technologies 
MCI Communications 
Corporation 
Merrill Lynch & 
Company, Inc. 

Michel in Tire Corporation 
Monsanto Company 
Morgan Stanley & Co. 


Nestle USA, Inc. 

Nokia 

T el ecommu n i cat i on s 
I nc. 

Nortel Networks 
Novartis 

Novo Nordisk of North 
America 

Pechiney Corporation 
Pfizer International Inc. 
Philips Electronics North 
America 
Pirelli 

Powell, Goldstein, Frazer 
& Murphy 
Procter & Gamble 
Price Waterhouse LLP 
Rabobank Nederland 
Rolls-Royce North 
America I nc. 

SAAB AB 

Sara Lee Corporation 
SBC Communications Inc. 


Siegel & Gale 
Siemens Corporation 
Skandia 
Skanska AB 
SKF AB 

SmithKIine Beecham 
Sulzer Inc. 

Tetra Laval Group 
Tractebel Energy 
Marketing 

Unilever United States, 
Inc. 

US Filter 
Veba Corporation 
VNU Business 
Information Svcs., Inc. 
Volkswagen 
Volvo Corporation 
White Consolidated, Inc. 
Xerox Corporation 
Zeneca Inc. 


Chairman Archer. Thank you, Mr. Chip. With the indulgence of 
the other witnesses, we are going to have to go across the street 
and vote. There will also be another 5-minute vote. It will probably 
be somewhere between 10 and 15 minutes before we get back. The 
Committee will stand in recess until then. 

[Recess.] 

Chairman Archer. The Committee will come to order. Mr. 
Laitinen, would you give us your testimony? 

STATEMENT OF WILLIAM H. LAITINEN, ASSISTANT GENERAL 

TAX COUNSEL, GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION, DETROIT, 

MICHIGAN 

Mr. Laitinen. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. My name is Bill 
Laitinen. I am Assistant General Tax Counsel for General Motors 
Corporation. 

I am testifying today on behalf of a coalition of U.S. multi- 
national companies that are severely penalized by a particular as- 
pect of the U.S. tax law affecting international operations, that is, 
the rules regarding the allocation of interest expense between U.S. 
source and foreign source income for purposes of determining the 
foreign tax credits a U.S. taxpayer may claim for taxes it pays to 
a foreign country. 

I would like to express our appreciation to the Chairman and the 
Members of the Committee for holding this hearing and for the op- 
portunity to testify on the vitally important issue of the impact of 
U.S. tax rules on the international competitiveness of U.S. workers 
and businesses. Also, I would like to commend Representative 
Houghton and Representative Levin on the introduction of their 
important international simplification bill. 

My testimony today will focus exclusively on the distortive and 
anti-competitive impact of the current interest allocation rules and 
the pressing need to reform these rules. 



117 


The United States taxes U.S. persons on their worldwide income, 
but allows a credit against U.S. tax for foreign taxes paid on in- 
come earned abroad. In order to determine the foreign tax credits 
that may be claimed, taxpayers must allocate expenses between 
U.S. source and foreign source income. Special rules enacted in the 
Tax Reform Act of 1986 require that U.S. interest expense be allo- 
cated to a U.S. multinational group's investment and its foreign 
subsidiaries. Although the rules purport to reflect a principle of 
fungibility of money, in fact, they ignore the interest expense actu- 
ally incurred by the foreign subsidiaries. This one-way street ap- 
proach to fungibility is a gross economic distortion. 

The interest allocation rules cause a disproportionate amount of 
U.S. interest expense to be allocated to foreign source income. This 
over allocation of U.S. interest expense reduces the group's capacity 
to claim foreign tax credits for the taxes it pays to foreign coun- 
tries. Of course, the U.S. interest expense so allocated is not de- 
ductible for foreign tax purposes and, therefore, does not result in 
any reduction in the foreign taxes a multinational group actually 
pays. Thus, the ultimate distortion caused by the interest alloca- 
tion rules is the double-taxation of foreign income earned by the 
U.S. multinational group. 

This double-taxation represents a significant cost for U.S. multi- 
nationals, a cost not borne by their foreign competitors. This in- 
creased cost makes it more difficult for U.S. multinationals to com- 
pete in the global marketplace. When a U.S. multinational con- 
siders a foreign expansion or acquisition, it must factor into its pro- 
jections the double taxation caused by the interest allocation rules. 
A foreign competitor considering the same expansion or acquisition 
can do so without this added cost. 

Not only do the interest allocation rules impose a cost that 
makes it more difficult for U.S. multinationals to compete in over- 
seas markets, the rules actually put U.S. multinationals at a com- 
petitive disadvantage in making U.S. investments. When a U.S. 
multinational incurs debt to make an additional investment in the 
United States, a portion of the interest expense on that debt is allo- 
cated to foreign source income. In effect, the U.S. multinational is 
denied a current deduction for that portion of the interest expense. 

A foreign corporation that makes the same investment in the 
United States will not be impacted by these interest allocation 
rules. Thus the foreign corporation making an investment in the 
United States will face lower costs than a U.S. multinational mak- 
ing the same investment in this country. Under the interest alloca- 
tion rules, U.S. multinationals can't even compete on a level 
playingfield when they are the home team. 

There is no tax policy rationale that supports the distortion 
caused by the current rules. The interest allocation rules must be 
reformed to eliminate these distortions. First, the interest alloca- 
tion rules should take into account all the interest expense in- 
curred by the multinational group, that is, both United States and 
foreign interest expense. Second, debt incurred by a subsidiary 
member of the group based on its own credit should be allocated 
separately, taking into account only the assets of that member and 
its subsidiaries. Finally, financial services entities, which borrow 



118 


on their own credit rather than that of the group, shouid be treated 
as a separate group. 

These important reforms to the interest aiiocation ruies are em- 
bodied in H.R. 2270, which was introduced recentiy by Representa- 
tive Portman and Representative Matsui. The interest aiiocation 
ruies reflected in H.R. 2270 eiiminate the distortions caused by the 
current ruies, thereby aiiowing the foreign tax credit to achieve its 
fundamentai purpose, which is to eiiminate doubie taxation of in- 
come earned abroad. 

i n dosing, i respectfuiiy urge the Committee to enact the reforms 
refiected in H.R. 2270. Reform of the interest aiiocation ruies is 
criticai to ensuring the abiiity of U.S. muitinationais to compete 
with their foreign counterparts, both abroad and in the United 
States. Thank you. 

[The prepared statement foiiows:] 

statement of William H. Laitinen, Assistant General Tax Counsel, General 
Motors Corporation, Detroit, Michigan 

I . I NTRODUCTION 

General Motors Corporation appreciates the opportunity to testify before the 
House Ways and Means Committee on competitiveness issues raised by the inter- 
national provisions of the U.S. tax laws. Our testimony is submitted on behalf of 
a coalition of U.S. -based multinational companies that are severely penalized by a 
particular aspect of the international provisions of the U.S. tax laws: the rules re- 
garding the allocation of interest expense between U.S. -source and foreign-source in- 
come for purposes of determining the foreign tax credit a U.S. taxpayer may claim 
for foreign taxes it pays. Our testimony specifically focuses on the distortive and 
anti-competitive impact of the present-law interest allocation rules, which were en- 
acted with the Tax Reform Act of 1986, and the pressing need for reform of these 
rules. 

The present-law interest allocation rules penalize U.S. multinationals by artifi- 
cially restricting the foreign tax credits they may claim. By improperly denying a 
credit for foreign taxes paid by U.S. multinationals on the income they earn abroad, 
the rules result in double taxation of such income. This double taxation is contrary 
to fundamental principles of international taxation and imposes on U.S. -based mul- 
tinationals a significant cost that is not borne by their competitors. 

We respectfully urge the Ways and Means Committee to consider legislation to 
reform the interest allocation rules. Such reforms are embodied in H.R. 2270, which 
was introduced recently by Representative Portman and Representative Matsui. As 
we explain in this testimony, interest allocation reform is necessary in order to re- 
flect the fundamental tax policy goal of avoiding double taxation and to eliminate 
the competitive disadvantage at which the present-law interest allocation rules 
place U.S. -based multinationals. 

II. Present-Law Interest Allocation Rules 

The United States taxes its corporations, citizens and residents on their world- 
wide income, without regard to whether such income is earned in the United States 
or abroad. In order to avoid having the same dollar of income subjected to tax both 
by the United States and by the country in which it is earned, the United States 
allows U.S. persons to claim a credit against U.S. taxes for the foreign taxes paid 
with respect to foreign-source income. The U.S. tax laws have allowed such a foreign 
tax credit since the Revenue Act of 1918. 

The purpose of preventing double taxation requires allowing foreign taxes paid by 
a U.S. person as a credit against the potential U.S. tax liability with respect to the 
income earned by such person abroad. However, foreign taxes are not allowed as 
a credit against the U.S. tax liability with respect to income earned in the United 
States. Accordingly, the foreign tax credit limitation applies to limit the use of such 
credits to offset only the U.S. tax on foreign-source income and not the U.S. tax on 
U.S. -source income. 

In order to compute the foreign tax credit limitation, the U.S. taxpayer must de- 
termine its taxable income from foreign sources. This determination requires the al- 
location and apportionment of expenses and other deductions between U.S. -source 



119 


grcBS income and foreign -source gross income. Deductions that are aiiocated to for- 
eign-source income for U.S. tax purposes have the effect of reducing the taxpayer's 
foreign tax credit iimitation, thus reducing the amount of foreign taxes that may 
be used to offset the taxpayer's potentiai U.S. tax on income earned from foreign 
sources. 

Speciai ruies enacted with the Tax Reform Act of 1986 appiy for purposes of deter- 
mining the aiiocation of interest expense between U.S. -source income and foreign- 
source income. Interest expense generaiiy is aiiocated based on the reiative amounts 
of U.S. assets and foreign assets. The ruies enacted with the 1986 Act generaiiy re- 
quire that interest expense be aiiocated by treating aii the U.S. members of an affiii- 
ated group of corporations as a singie corporation. Accordingiy, the interest aiioca- 
tion computation is done by taking into account aii the interest expense incurred 
by aii the U.S. members of the group on a group-wide basis. Moreover, such interest 
expense is aiiocated based on the aggregate amounts of U.S. and foreign assets of 
aii such U.S. members of the affiiiated group on a group-wide basis. 

Under the 1986 Act provisions, the group for interest aiiocation purposes inciudes 
oniy the U.S. corporations in a muitinationai group of corporations and does not in- 
dude foreign corporations that are part of the same muitinationai group. Under this 
approach, the interest expense incurred by the foreign subsidiaries in the muiti- 
nationai group is not taken into account in the aiiocation determination. Moreover, 
the assets of the foreign subsidiaries are not taken into account in determining the 
aggregate U.S. and foreign assets of the group. Rather, the stock of the foreign sub- 
sidiaries is treated as a foreign asset held by the group for purposes of allocating 
the interest expense of the U.S. members of the group between U.S. and foreign as- 
sets. 

Special rules apply to certain banks that are members of the affiliated group. 
Under these rules, banks are not included in the group for interest allocation pur- 
poses. Instead, such banks are treated as a separate group and the interest alloca- 
tion rules are applied separately to such group. 

In addition, the regulations apply more specific tracing rules to allocate interest 
expense in certain situations. A tracing approach applies to the allocation of interest 
expense incurred with respect to certain nonrecourse indebtedness. Such an ap- 
proach also applies to the allocation of interest expense incurred in connection with 
certain integrated financial transactions. 

III. Impact of the Present-Law Interest Allocation Rules 

The present-law interest allocation rules purport to reflect a principle of fungi- 
bility of money, with interest expense treated as attributable to all the activities and 
assets of the U.S. members of a group regardless of the specific purpose for which 
the debt is incurred. However, the approach adopted with the 1986 Act does not 
truly reflect the fungi bility principle because it applies fungi bility only in one direc- 
tion. Under this approach, the interest expense incurred by the U.S. members of an 
affiliated group is treated as funding all the activities and assets of such group, in- 
cluding the activities and assets of the foreign corporations in the same multi- 
national group. However, in this calculation, the interest expense actually incurred 
by the foreign corporations in the group is ignored. Thus, under the present-law in- 
terest allocation rules, the interest expense incurred by the foreign corporations in 
a multinational group is not recognized as funding either the foreign corporation's 
own activities and assets or any of the activities and assets of other group members. 
This one-way street approach to fungi bility is a gross economic distortion. 

The distortive impact of the present-law interest allocation rules can be illus- 
trated with a simple example. Consider a U.S. parent with a single foreign sub- 
sidiary. The two corporations are of equal size and are equally leveraged. Thus, the 
total assets of the two corporations are equal and the interest expense incurred by 
the two corporations is equal. The U.S. parent's assets (other than the stock of the 
foreign subsidiary) are all U.S. assets and the foreign subsidiary's assets are all for- 
eign assets. Under the present-law interest allocation rules, only the interest ex- 
pense of the U.S. parent would be taken into account. This interest expense is allo- 
cated based on only the U.S. parent's assets, taking into account the stock of the 
foreign subsidiary as a foreign asset of the U.S. parent. Thus, in this case, one-half 
of the U.S. parent's assets are U.S. assets and one-half are foreign assets. Accord- 
ingly, one-half of the U.S. parent's interest expense is allocated to the foreign assets 
(i.e., the stock of the foreign subsidiary). However, the foreign subsidiary itself has 
incurred interest expense equal to that of the U.S. parent and representing a lever- 
age ratio equal to that of the U.S. parent. From an economic perspective, none of 
the U.S. parent's interest expense in this example should be treated as supporting 
the activities or assets of the foreign subsidiary. The allocation of a portion of the 



120 


U.S. parent's interest expense to foreign assets represents a doubie-counting of the 
interest expense that is treated as reiating to foreign assets. Indeed, in this case, 
three-quarters of the group's interest expense (i.e, one-haif of the U.S. parent's in- 
terest expense pius aii of the foreign subsidiary's interest expense which is dis- 
regarded under the interest aiiocation ruies) effectiveiy is treated as reiating to the 
foreign subsidiary, even though its assets represent oniy one-haif of the group's as- 
sets. There is absoiuteiy no economic basis for this resuit -it is an obvious distortion. 

By disregarding the interest expense of the foreign members of a muitinationai 
group, the approach refiected in the present-iaw interest aiiocation ruies causes a 
disproportionate amount of U.S. interest expense to be aiiocated to the foreign as- 
sets of the group. This over-aiiocation of U.S. interest expense to foreign assets has 
the effect of reducing the amount of the muitinationai group's income that is treated 
as foreign -source income for U.S. tax purposes, which in turn reduces the group's 
foreign tax credit iimitation. This reduction in the foreign tax credit iimitation has 
the effect of reducing the amount of the group's foreign taxes that can be used to 
offset its potentiai U.S. tax iiabiiity on its foreign-source income. Of course, the U.S. 
interest expense that is aiiocated to foreign assets under the interest aiiocation 
ruies is not deductibie for foreign tax purposes and therefore such aiiocation does 
not resuit in any reduction in the foreign taxes the muitinationai group actuaiiy 
pays. The aiiocation mereiy reduces the amount of such taxes paid that may be used 
as a credit against the potentiai U.S. tax iiabiiity with respect to the same foreign- 
source income. Thus, the uitimate resuit of the distortion caused by the present-iaw 
interest aiiocation ruies is doubie taxation of the foreign income earned by the U.S. 
muitinationai group. 

The doubie taxation that resuits from the present-iaw interest aiiocation ruies 
represents a significant cost for U.S. -based muitinationais, a cost not borne by their 
foreign competitors. This increased cost makes it more difficuit for U.S. muiti- 
nationais to compete in the giobai marketpiace. When a U.S. muitinationai con- 
siders a foreign expansion or acquisition, it must factor into its projections the fact 
that the additionai foreign asset wiii resuit in an additionai aiiocation to foreign- 
source income of the interest expense incurred by the muitinationai group in the 
United States. An additionai aiiocation wiii resuit as the expansion or acquisition 
generates earnings even if the expansion or acquisition is fuiiy supported by bor- 
rowing incurred outside the United States. The resuiting additionai aiiocation of 
U.S. interest expense wiii exacerbate the doubie taxation to which the U.S. -based 
muitinationai is subject. A foreign-based corporation considering the same expan- 
sion or acquisition can do so without this cost that arises from the distortion in the 
U.S. tax ruies. 

Not oniy do the interest aiiocation ruies impose a cost that makes it more difficuit 
for U.S. muitinationais to compete with their foreign counterparts with respect to 
foreign operations, the ruies actuaiiy operate to put U.S. muitinationais at a com- 
petitive disadvantage with respect to investments in the United States. This impact 
of the interest aiiocation ruies is especiaiiy troubiing. When a U.S. -based muiti- 
nationai makes an additionai investment in the United States and finances that in- 
vestment with debt, a portion of the interest expense incurred with respect to that 
debt is treated as reiating to its foreign subsidiaries, even if the foreign subsidiaries 
are themseives ieveraged to the same extent as the U.S. members of the group. 
Thus, the U.S. muitinationai effectiveiy is denied a deduction for a portion of the 
interest expense on the additionai debt incurred to fund the U.S. acquisition. A for- 
eign corporation that makes the same acquisition in the United States and finances 
it with the same amount of debt wiii not be impacted by these interest aiiocation 
ruies and wiii be entitied to a deduction for U.S. tax purposes for the fuii amount 
of the interest expense reiated to the acquisition. Thus, the foreign corporation con- 
sidering an investment in the United States wiii face iower costs than a U.S. -based 
muitinationai considering the same investment in the United States. 

IV. Proposed Reform of the Interest Allocation Rules 

The interest aiiocation ruies enacted with the Tax Reform Act of 1986 were in- 
tended to eiiminate the potentiai for manipuiation that arose under the then-appii- 
cabie separate company approach to interest aiiocation. The 1986 Act ruies requir- 
ing interest to be aiiocated on a group basis addressed that concern. However, by 
drawing the iine for interest aiiocation at the water's-edge and ignoring the interest 
expense incurred by the foreign members of a U.S. muitinationai group, the present- 
iaw ruies create a fundamentai distortion. There is no tax poiicy rationaie that sup- 
ports the distortion caused by the present-iaw ruies. The interest aiiocation ruies 
must be reformed to eiiminate these distortions and to refiect a defensibie resuit 



121 


from a tax policy perspective. Eliminating such distortions will remove a significant 
barrier to the competitiveness of U.S. multinationals in the global marketplace. 

First, interest expense should be allocated consistent with the actual economics 
of the debt structure of the U.S. multinational group. In order to accurately reflect 
the principle of fungibility, such principle must be applied on a worldwide basis. 
Under a worldwide fungibility approach, the foreign-source income of the U.S. multi- 
national group generally would be determined by allocating all interest expense of 
the worldwide affiliated group on a group-wide basis. The interest allocation com- 
putation would take into account both the interest expense of the foreign members 
of the affiliated group and the assets of such members. Interest expense incurred 
by a foreign subsidiary thus would reduce the amount of the U.S. interest expense 
that would be allocated to foreign-source income. This approach would eliminate the 
double-counting of the amount of interest expense treated as the cost of holding the 
assets of a foreign subsidiary that occurs under the present-law rules. 

Moreover, interest expense should be more specifically allocated where the debt 
does not fund the entire multinational group. In other words, the principle of 
fungibility should be applied to a smaller group of companies in cases where the 
debt is incurred by (and based on the credit of) a member other than the common 
parent. While debt incurred by one lower-tier member of an affiliated group may 
be viewed as funding the assets and activities of that corporation and its subsidi- 
aries, such debt does not fund the assets and activities of other members of the 
group (such as the parent or sister corporations of the borrowing corporation). Thus, 
it is appropriate to permit the interest expense associated with such debt to be allo- 
cated based solely on the assets of the subgroup of corporations that consists of the 
borrower and its subsidiaries. 

Finally, it is appropriate to separate financial services entities -which tend to 
have debt structures that are very different from the other members of an affiliated 
group -for purposes of the allocation of interest. This treatment of financial services 
entities as a separate subgroup is consistent with the present-law rule treating 
banks as a separate subgroup. Flowever, this expansion of the present-law bank rule 
recognizes that such treatment should encompass all financial services entities rath- 
er than only entities regulated as banks. 

These important reforms to the interest allocation rules are embodied in FI.R. 
2270, the Interest Allocation Reform Act, which was introduced recently by Rep- 
resentative Portman and Representative Matsui. The interest allocation rules re- 
flected in FI .R. 2270 eliminate the distortions caused by the present-law rules, facili- 
tating the operation of the foreign tax credit to eliminate double taxation of income 
earned abroad. Enactment of the reforms reflected in FI.R. 2270 is critical to ensur- 
ing the ability of U.S. -based multinationals to compete with their foreign counter- 
parts, both with respect to operations abroad and with respect to operations in the 
United States. 


V. T ECHNicAL Explanation of FI .R. 2270 

A detailed technical explanation of the provisions of FI.R. 2270 is set forth below. 
In General 

FI.R. 2270 would modify the present-law interest allocation rules of section 864(e) 
that were enacted by the Tax Reform Act of 1986. Under the bill's modifications, 
interest expense generally would be allocated by applying the principle of fungibility 
to the taxpayer's worldwide affiliated group (rather than to just the U.S. affiliated 
group). In addition, under special rules, interest expense incurred by a lower-tier 
U.S. member of an affiliated group could be allocated by applying the principle of 
fungibility to the subgroup consisting of the borrower and its direct and indirect 
subsidiaries. FI.R. 2270 also would allow members engaged in the active conduct of 
a financial services business to be treated as a separate group. Finally, the bill 
would provide specific regulatory authority for the direct allocation of interest ex- 
pense in other circumstances where such tracing is appropriate. 

Under FI.R. 2270, a taxpayer would be able to make a one-time election to apply 
the modified rules reflected in the bill rather than the interest allocation rules of 
present law. Such election would be required to be made for the taxpayer's first tax- 
able year to which the bill is applicable and for which it is a member of an affiliated 
group, and could be revoked only with IRS consent. Such election, if made, would 
apply to all the members of the affiliated group. 

FI.R. 2270 generally is not intended to modify the interpretive guidance contained 
in the regulations under the present-law interest allocation rules that is relevant 
to the rules reflected in the bill, and such guidance is intended to continue to be 
applicable. 



122 


Worldwide Fungi bUity 

Under H.R. 2270, the taxable income of an affiliated group from sources outside 
the United States generally would be determined by allocating and apportioning all 
interest expense of the worldwide affiliated group on a group-wide basis. For this 
purpose, the worldwide affiliated group would include not only the U.S. members 
of the affiliated group, but also the foreign corporations that would be eligible to 
be included in a consolidated return if they were not foreign. Both the interest ex- 
pense and the assets of all members of the worldwide affiliated group would be 
taken into account for purposes of the allocation and apportionment of interest ex- 
pense. Accordingly, interest expense incurred by a foreign subsidiary would betaken 
into account in determining the initial allocation and apportionment of interest ex- 
pense to foreign-source income. The interest expense incurred by the foreign subsidi- 
aries would not be deductible on the U.S. consolidated return. Accordingly, the 
amount of interest expense allocated to foreign-source income on the U.S. consoli- 
dated return would be reduced (but not below zero) by the amount of interest ex- 
pense incurred by the foreign members of the worldwide group, to the extent that 
such interest would be allocated to foreign sources if these rules were applied sepa- 
rately to a group consisting of just the foreign members of the worldwide affiliated 
group. As under the present-law rules for affiliated groups, debt between members 
of the worldwide affiliated group, and stockholdings in group members, would be 
eliminated for purposes of determining total interest expense of the worldwide affili- 
ated group, computing asset ratios, and computing the reduction in the allocation 
to foreign -source income for interest expense incurred by a foreign member. 

As under the present-law rules, taxpayers would be required to allocate and ap- 
portion interest expense on the basis of assets (rather than gross income). Because 
foreign members would be included in the worldwide affiliated group, the computa- 
tion would take into account the assets of such foreign members (rather than the 
stock in such foreign members). For purposes of applying this asset method, as 
under the present-law rules, if members of the worldwide affiliated group hold at 
least 10 percent (by vote) of the stock of a corporation (U.S. or foreign) that is not 
a member of such group, the adjusted basis in such stock would be increased by 
the earnings and profits that are attributable to such stock and that are accumu- 
lated during the period that the members hold such stock. Similarly, the adjusted 
basis in such stock would be reduced by any deficit in earnings and profits that is 
attributable to such stock and that arose during such period. Flowever, unlike under 
the present-law rules, these basis adjustment rules would not be applicable to the 
stock of the foreign members of the expanded affiliated group (because such mem- 
bers would be included in the group for interest allocation purposes). 

Under FI.R. 2270, interest expense would be allocated and apportioned based on 
the assets of the expanded affiliated group. For interest allocation purposes, the af- 
filiated group would be determined under section 1504 but would include life insur- 
ance companies without regard to whether such companies are covered by an elec- 
tion under section 1504(c)(2) to include them in the affiliated group under section 
1504. This definition of affiliated group would be the starting point for the expanded 
affiliated group. In addition, the expanded affiliated group would include section 936 
companies (which are included in the group for interest allocation purposes under 
present law). The expanded affiliated group also would include foreign corporations 
that would be included in the affiliated group under section 1504 if they were do- 
mestic corporations: consistent with the present-law exclusion of DISCs from the af- 
filiated group, FSCs would not be included in the expanded affiliated group. 

S ubgroup E I eoti on 

FI.R. 2270 also provides a special method for the allocation and apportionment of 
interest expense with respect to certain debt incurred by members of an affiliated 
group below the top tier. Under this method, interest expense attributable to quali- 
fied debt incurred by a U.S. member of an affiliated group could be allocated and 
apportioned by looking just to the subgroup consisting of the borrower and its direct 
and indirect subsidiaries (including foreign subsidiaries). Debt would qualify for this 
purpose if it is a borrowing from an unrelated person that is not guaranteed or oth- 
erwise directly supported by any other corporation within the worldwide affiliated 
group (other than another member of such subgroup). Debt that does not qualify be- 
cause of such a guarantee (or other direct support) would be treated as debt of the 
guarantor (or, if the guarantor is not in the same chain of corporations as the bor- 
rower, as debt of the common parent of the guarantor and the borrower). If this sub- 
group method is elected by any member of an affiliated group, it would be required 
to be applied to the interest expense attributable to all qualified debt of all U.S. 
members of the group. 



123 


When this subgroup method is used, certain transfers from one U.S. member of 
the affiiiated group to another wouid be treated as reducing the amount of quaiified 
debt. If a U.S. member with quaiified debt makes dividend or other distributions 
in a taxabie year to another member of the affiiiated group that exceed the greater 
of its average annuai dividend (as a percentage of current earnings and profits) dur- 
ing the five preceding years or 25 percent of its average annual earnings and profits 
for such period, an amount of its qualified debt equal to such excess would be re- 
characterized as nonqualified. A similar rule would apply to the extent that a U.S. 
member with qualified debt deals with a related party on a basis that is not arm's 
length. Interest attributable to any debt that is recharacterized as nonqualified 
would be allocated and apportioned by looking to the entire worldwide affiliated 
group (rather than to the subgroup). 

If this subgroup method is used, an equalization rule would apply to the allocation 
and apportionment of interest expense of members of the affiliated group that is at- 
tributable to nonqualified debt. Such interest expense would be allocated and appor- 
tioned first to foreign sources to the extent necessary to achieve (to the extent pos- 
sible) the allocation and apportionment that would have resulted had the subgroup 
method not been applied. 

Financial Services Group Election 

Under H.R. 2270, a modified and expanded version of the special bank group rule 
of present law would apply. Under this election, the allocation and apportionment 
of interest expense could be determined separately for the subgroup of the expanded 
affiliated group that consists solely of members that are predominantly engaged in 
the active conduct of a banking, insurance, financing or similar business. For this 
purpose, the determination of whether a member is predominantly so engaged 
would be made under rules similar to the rules of section 904(d)(2)(C) and the regu- 
lations thereunder (relating to the determination of income in the financial services 
basket for foreign tax credit purposes). Accordingly, a member would be considered 
to be predominantly engaged in the active conduct of a banking, insurance, financ- 
ing, or similar business if at least 80 percent of its gross income is active financing 
income as described in Treas. Reg. sec. 1. 904-4(e)(2). As under the subgroup rule, 
certain transfers of funds from a U.S. member of the financial services group to an- 
other member of the affiliated group that is not a member of the financial services 
group would reduce the interest expense that is allocated and apportioned based on 
the financial services group. Also as under the subgroup rule, if elected, this rule 
would apply to all members that are considered to be predominantly engaged in the 
active conduct of a banking, insurance, financing, or similar business. 

IV. Conclusion 

The present-law interest allocation rules operate to deny U.S. multinationals for- 
eign tax credits for the taxes they pay to foreign jurisdictions. The rules thus subject 
U.S. multinationals to double taxation of their income earned abroad. This double 
taxation represents a burden on U.S. -based multinationals that hinders their ability 
to compete against their foreign counterparts. Indeed, the distortions caused by the 
interest allocation rules impose a substantial cost that affects the ability of U.S.- 
based multinationals to compete against foreign companies both with respect to for- 
eign operations and with respect to their operations in the United States. 

FI .R. 2270 would reform the interest allocation rules to eliminate these rules. The 
interest allocation rules reflected in FI.R. 2270 represent sound tax policy and are 
consistent with the goal of eliminating double taxation. Such rules would allow the 
foreign tax credit limitation to operate properly. We respectfully urge the Congress 
to enact the reforms reflected in FI.R. 2270 in order to eliminate the unfair, anti- 
competitive, and indefensible burden that the present-law interest allocation rules 
have imposed on U.S. multinationals for the last thirteen years. 


Chairman Archer. Thank you, Mr. Laitinen. Mr. Hamod, you 
may proceed. 



124 


STATEMENT OF DAVID HAMOD, EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR, 
SECTION 911 COALITION 

Mr. Hamod. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to 
testify today. My name is David Hamod, and I serve as the Execu- 
tive Director of the section 911 Coalition. Our Coalition consists of 
business organizations, non-profit entities, and companies that 
have come together in recent years to call attention to the impor- 
tance of the Section 911 foreign earned income exclusion. The Coa- 
lition has some 75 members, including representatives of the more 
than 75 American chambers of commerce around the world and 
nearly 550 American and international schools abroad. 

On a personal note, Mr. Chairman, Americans around the world 
want to thank you for your consistent support for American com- 
munities overseas. No one in Congress during the past two decades 
has been a more outspoken advocate for, or more tenacious de- 
fender of, the foreign earned income exclusion and the jobs that it 
helps to create here in the United States. 

Mr. Chairman, if I were to take this 23-page testimony and boil 
it down to just a few words, they would be these: Americans abroad 
= U.S. exports = U.S. jobs. Any businessowner will tell you that to 
generate business, you have got to put your sales people into the 
field. Experience shows that Americans abroad are the best sales- 
men and best saleswomen for U.S. goods and services overseas. 
They drive U.S. exports, which, in turn, generate U.S. jobs. We 
know that Americans abroad buy American, sell American, specify 
American, hire American, and create other business opportunities 
for Americans overseas. 

Despite the obvious importance of employing Americans over- 
seas, U.S. tax policy puts American workers abroad and their em- 
ployers at a significant competitive disadvantage. The United 
States is the only major industrial country in the world that taxes 
on the basis of citizenship rather than residence. Because this U.S. 
tax policy is out of step with the rest of the world, American work- 
ers are significantly more expensive to hire than are comparably 
qualified foreign nationals. As a result, the trend worldwide is to 
replace American workers with less expensive third-country nation- 
als, particularly Europeans. 

In the continuing battle for international market share. Section 
911 has proved to be one of the most important weapons in Amer- 
ica's trade arsenal because this exclusion: (1) makes U.S. citizens 
working overseas more competitive with foreign nationals, who pay 
no tax on their overseas earned income; (2) makes American com- 
panies more competitive in their bids on overseas projects; and, (3) 
helps to put Americans into the field overseas where they promote 
U.S. goods and services and create hundreds of thousands of jobs 
here in the United States. 

I n 1995, the section 911 Coalition commissioned two independent 
studies that reinforced the long-held view that section 911 is espe- 
cially important to the little guy overseas: small and medium-sized 
companies, American educators, clergy, NGOs and others. Sum- 
maries of these studies are attached to this testimony, but two key 
points bear repeating this afternoon. First, nearly two-thirds of 
small and large companies said their competitive advantage would 



125 


improve if the exclusion were increased from $70,000 to at least 
$100,000 back in 1995. 

Second, without Section 911, there would be a decline in U.S. ex- 
ports of almost 2 percent. This translates into $8.7 billion in lost 
exports and a loss of upward of 150,000 direct U.S. -based jobs. 
These figures do not include service-related jobs or indirect employ- 
ment, which would probably double the number of jobs lost. 

Mr. Chairman, I nave good news and I have bad news. First, the 
good news is that 2 years ago, under your leadership, the Ways 
and Means Committee and Congress helped to temporarily shore 
up Section 911 through the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997. 

The bad news, as this chart illustrates, is that the Section 911 
exclusion continues to lose ground. According to Pricewaterhouse- 
Coopers, the 1999 exclusion amount in real dollars is 45 percent 
below its level in 1983, when the exclusion topped out at $80,000. 
The real value of the exclusion is projected to continue falling after 
1999 and is expected to stabilize in the year 2007 at approximately 
$65,150 in 1999 dollars. 

Looked at from a purchasing power point of view, the value of 
the exclusion will have plummeted in real dollars from $134,197 
back in 1983 to $65,150 in 2007, a devastating loss of nearly 
$70,000 in 1999 dollars. The exclusion was $80,000 in 1983; it will 
again be $80,000 in 2008, 25 years later. And as we all know, Mr. 
Chairman, $80,000 today doesn't buy what it did a quarter-century 
ago. 

In the long-run. Congress should remove the limitation on the 
Section 911 exclusion. But in the short-term, the Coalition is pro- 
posing an interim step designed to restore value to the exclusion 
that has been eroded over the years as a result of inflation. We rec- 
ommend that the foreign earned income exclusion be adjusted, be- 
ginning in calendar year 2000, to compensate for the effects of in- 
flation since 1983, when the exclusion was frozen at $80,000. This 
indexation would help to stop the deterioration of Section 911 and 
it would also be consistent with the inflation adjustments made in 
many other dollar amounts in the individual income tax system. 

I n conclusion, Mr. Chairman, as you yourself have said, our work 
is not yet done. We hope that the Committee will look favorably 
upon our proposal. It represents a small investment that we believe 
will position the United States to compete in the 21st century and 
yield billions of dollars worth of dividends to the U.S. economy in 
the years ahead. Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to 
testify today. 

[The prepared statement follows:] 

statement of David Hamod, Executive Director, Section 911 Coalition 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to testify today. My name is David 
Hamod, and I serve as Executive Director of the Section 911 Coaiition. Our coaiition 
consists of business organizations, non-profit entities, and companies that have 
come together in recent years to caii attention to the importance of the Section 911 
foreign earned income exdu si on. The Coaiition has some 75 members, inciuding rep- 
resentatives of more than 75 American chambers of commerce overseas and neariy 
550 American and internationai schools abroad. (A list of Section 911 Coalition 
members is attached to this testimony as Appendix A.) 

In recent years, the stock market notwithstanding, exports have been the most 
impressive engine of growth for America's economy. It goes without saying that ex- 
ports don't just happen by themselves. Independent studies and raw statistical data 
show a direct correlation between the number of Americans working overseas and 



126 


the level of U.S. exports. Any business owner will tell you that to generate business, 
you've got to put your sales people In the field. Experience shows that Americans 
abroad are the best salesmen and saleswomen for U.S. goods and services overseas. 
The bottom line, Mr. Chairman, Is this: 

Americans Abroad =U.S. Exports =U.S. J obs. 

In the ongoing battle for International market share, the Section 911 exclusion 
has proved to be one of the most Important weapons In America's trade arsenal. By 
helping to maintain U.S. citizens "In the field" around the world, where they pro- 
mote America's national Interests on a dally basis. Section 911 has had a direct Im- 
pact on the competitiveness of American workers and U.S. companies operating In 
foreign markets. 

Two years ago, the Ways and Means Committee responded very positively to an 
Initiative by Americans worldwide to Increase the foreign earned Income exclusion. 
Under your leadership, Mr. Chairman, the Committee (and ultimately. Congress) In- 
creased Section 911 by $2,000 per year, leveling off at $80,000 In calendar year 
2002. Beginning In calendar year 2008, the $80,000 exclusion will also be adjusted 
for Inflation for 2008 and subsequent years. 

We are very grateful for this Increase, which has helped to shore up temporarily 
the backsliding that the foreign earned income exclusion has experienced for more 
than a decade. But as you have said yourself, Mr. Chairman, our work is not yet 
done. The changes of two years ago represent an important step in the right direc- 
tion, but U.S. companies overseas and American workers abroad must continue to 
make their case to Congress to level the international business playing field for the 
United States. 

Even with the positive changes enacted under the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997, 
the Section 911 exclusion continues to lose ground. According to Pricewaterhouse- 
Coopers LLP, the 1999 exclusion amount, in real dollars, is 45 percent below its 
level in 1983 ($80,000 in nominal dollars and $134,197 in 1999 dollars), following 
passage of the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981. The real value of the exclusion 
is projected to continue falling after 1999 and is expected to stabilize in the year 
2007 at approximately $65,150 in 1999 dollars. Looked at from a "purchasing 
power" point of view, the value of the exclusion will have plummeted in real dollars 
from $134,197 (1983) to $65,150 (2007), a devastating loss of nearly $70,000 in 1999 
dollars. Under these circumstances, Mr. Chairman, the Section 911 Coalition is very 
concerned about "locking in" indexation of the exclusion at an unacceptable level 
from the year 2008 onwards. (A copy of the J une 28, 1999 report by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP— The Effect of I nflati on on theForagn Earned Income 
Exclusion Amount— \s attached to this testimony as Appendix B.) 

Ideally, Congress should remove the limitations on the Section 911 exclusion in 
order to give American workers an equal footing in the global marketplace. None 
of America's major trade competitors tax foreign earned income, and the U .S. should 
also move to an unlimited exclusion. (The only countries that tax on the basis of 
citizenship rather than residence, like the United States, appear to be Bulgaria, 
Gabon, Honduras, Indonesia, Jamaica, Kenya, Korea, Philippines, Senegal, and 
Zambia.) Reinstating the unlimited exclusion today would be a forward-looking 
measure and would do more to move the United States toward a consistent foreign 
trade surplus than would many other proposals under consideration by Congress. 

We realize, however, that removing the cap on the foreign earned income exclu- 
sion may not be possible at a time when Congress is grappling with so many major 
budgetary considerations. This is especially true because under the current revenue 
estimating procedure, the unlimited exclusion, in the short-term, would somewhat 
curtail tax revenues. Our Coalition would argue, however, that in the medium-term 
and long-term, net revenue gains would be substantial and would more than com- 
pensate for short-term losses. 

With this in mind, Mr. Chairman, the Section 911 Coalition proposes an interim 
measure for the Committee's consideration. This step is designed to restore value 
to the exclusion that has been eroded over the years as a result of inflation. 

We propose that the foreign earned income exclusion be adjusted, beginning in 
calendar year 2000, to compensate for the effects of inflation since 1983, when the 
Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 froze the exclusion at $80,000. This indexation would 
help to stop the deterioration of Section 911, and it would also be consistent with 
the inflation adjustments made in many other dollar amounts in the individual in- 
come tax system— the standard deduction, personal exemption, tax bracket 
amounts, earned income credit, phase-out of itemized deductions and personal ex- 
emptions, and so on. 

Enactment of this measure would represent an important step forward for U.S. 
companies and American workers overseas. Our Coalition believes that by making 



127 


American workers more affordable in the global marketplace, Congress would pave 
the way for more U.S. citizens overseas to buy American, sell American, specify 
American, hire American, and create opportunities for other Americans abroad. In 
short, this measure represents a relatively small investment that will position the 
United States to compete in the twenty-first century and yield billions of dollars 
worth of dividends totheU.S. economy in the years ahead. 

1. Section 911: The Big Picture 

Section 911 provides for a foreign earned income exclusion of up to $74,000 annu- 
ally to Americans working overseas, thereby assisting them to compete against com- 
parably qualified non-Americans (who pay no taxes on income earned abroad). A 
U.S. citizen or resident alien whose tax home is outside the United States and who 
is a bona fide resident of a foreign country or who is present in a foreign country 
for 11 months out of 12 (330 days in any 365 day period) may exclude from gross 
income up to $74,000 per year of foreign earned income, plus a housing cost amount. 

The foreign earned income exclusion has been part of the Internal Revenue Code 
since 1926, when it was unlimited for bona fide residents of a foreign country. (For 
a short history of the foreign earned income exclusion, see Appendix C.) Congress 
enacted the exclusion more than 70 years ago in an effort to "encourage citizens to 
go abroad and to place them in an equal position with citizens of other countries 
going abroad who are not taxed by their own countries." (Senate Report No. 781, 
82nd Congress, 1st Session, 1951, pp. 52-53.) 

America's trade competitors realized long ago that encouraging their citizens to 
work overseas has a pronounced, salutary impact on their domestic economies. 
Sending their workers abroad has become an integral part of these nations' export 
strategies. To facilitate this "export" of their citizens (and thus the export of prod- 
ucts and services), other governments do not tax their citizens on the money they 
make while working abroad. This makes these citizens extremely competitive in for- 
eign markets. 

U.S. Government tax policies, by contrast, have generally discouraged Americans 
from working abroad. Alone among the world's industrialized nations, the United 
States still taxes its citizens on the basis of citizenship rather than residence. Fur- 
ther, overseas Americans must also pay U.S. income tax on benefits, allowances, 
and overseas adjustments. The practical effects of this tax policy are clear: Ameri- 
cans overseas are at a significant competitive disadvantage and are being priced out 
of foreign markets because prospective employers must provide more income to com- 
pensate American workers for these additional tax burdens. 

Overseas employers are faced with a choice: They must pay an American worker 
more than they would pay other comparably qualified nationals (so that the Amer- 
ican may keep a comparable after-tax income) or they must utilize a tax equali- 
zation program to keep the employee whole for his or her additional tax burden. 
Both approaches involve additional costs to the employer— a burden that many em- 
ployers are unwilling to accept even if the American worker is more productive and 
has better professional qualifications than the competition. 

For those companies that have a tax equalization program in place, where the 
company pays any actual taxes for its overseas employees, the Section 911 exclusion 
helps to mitigate the tax burden mentioned above— thereby cutting company costs 
and enabling it to be more competitive abroad. For companies that do not utilize 
a tax equalization program— and most small and medium-sized companies working 
overseas fall into this category— the Section 911 exclusion is most helpful to the em- 
ployee, who is responsible for paying his own taxes. The current exclusion helps to 
make a difference in both cases, but the difference may still not be substantial 
enough to enable an American worker overseas to defend his or her job against for- 
eign nationals. 

The cost of hiring or maintaining an American worker is inordinately high be- 
cause non-salary, quality-of-life items must be included in the worker's taxable in- 
come, often adding as much as 50 -100 percent of base pay. Such "income" includes 
reimbursement for the cost of children's schooling, cost-of-living allowances, home 
leave, emergency travel, and other necessary and often expensive aspects of living 
overseas. Because so many overseas contracts today are decided on the basis of cost, 
and when companies' profit margins grow tighter and tighter, many employers (in- 
cluding American employers) simply aren't prepared to cover the additional tax bur- 
den to "FI ire American." 

A Section 911 Coalition member offered this case in point: 

A large American company recently won a multi-billion dollar, multi-year 
overseas contract to supply telecommunications equipment and services. The 
U.S. -based company would prefer to have Americans heading its overseas oper- 



128 


ations but, because the U.S. tax system effectively prices Americans out of the 
international job market, the company tends to hire Europeans instead. The 
President of this company's international operations is British, and his Vice 
President is Dutch. Not surprisingly, the Human Resources Director, who an- 
swers to the Vice President, is also from Holland. He has hired approximately 
2,000 technical employees for this project, most of whom are Dutch. In addition, 
Volvos were purchased instead of U.S. -made vehicles because they are consid- 
ered "more suitable" for the technical employees. If the U.S. tax system were 
more like those of America's trade competitors, who maintain an unlimited for- 
eign earned income exclusion, most of these 2,000-1- jobs would have gone to 
Americans rather than Europeans, and a large number of American cars would 
have been exported and purchased instead of Volvos. 

Section 911 is important because it makes a substantial difference in our nation's 
efforts to compete on the international business playing field. Without this exclu- 
sion, there is good reason to believe that many thousands of Americans currently 
overseas would be priced out of the global marketplace. This would be a devastating 
blow to America's national interests because Americans abroad: 

• Direct business and jobs to the United States; 

• Carry America's culture and business ethic to other nations; 

• Specify and purchase U.S. goods and services for overseas projects; 

• Set standards and shape ideas that guide future policies in the development 
of infrastructures and economies overseas. 

In addition, for U.S. companies to continue expanding their market share world- 
wide, they must think and act globally. To stay competitive internationally, Amer- 
ican managers need the kind of "hands on" experience that can only be gained by 
living and working abroad. In recent years, for example, two of the traditional Big 
Three automobile companies promoted their CEOs directly from European positions 
to corporate headquarters. This clearly demonstrates recognition by these companies 
of the rolethat international experience plays in their economic futures. 

In short, Mr. Chairman, Section 911 helps to protect against replacement of 
Americans abroad by third country nationals who pay no taxes at all on their over- 
seas income. Given the tens of thousands of overseas business opportunities that are 
of interest to U.S. companies and U.S. -based institutions each year, increasing the 
Section 911 exclusion stands to make a substantial difference for American influ- 
ence abroad, U.S. exports, U.S. jobs, and overall American competitiveness. 

2. Who Benefits from Section 911? 

The loss of U.S. market share and the cutback in American jobs overseas rep- 
resent a setback for American competitiveness. However, this tells only part of the 
story. The other part, of more immediate concern here at home, is the impact felt 
in communities all across the United States as jobs created or sustained by exports 
would disappear. 

All Americans abroad, whatever their background, are helping to fuel the economy 
in the United States. By securing employment overseas, they free up jobs for other 
Americans back home, thereby reducing unemployment. They also support the 
American economy by repatriating much of their overseas earnings back to the 
United States. Most important of all, perhaps, Americans working overseas serve as 
the front-line marketing and sales force for U.S. exports. Unless all Americans sup- 
port competitiveness through exports, our nation's trade deficit will surely continue. 

I noted earlier that exports are the engine of growth for the U.S. economy, and it 
is generally accepted that small and medium-sized companies provide the fuel for 
this engine. When the engine of growth is stalled out by constrictive U.S. tax laws 
that are no longer appropriate, Americans everywhere pay the price. 

For years, supporters of Section 911 have emphasized that the exclusion is espe- 
cially important to small and medium-sized companies operating in overseas mar- 
kets. "Real world" experience has borne out that: 

(1) Small companies, when trying to gain a foothold overseas, are more likely than 
large companies (many with an established overseas presence already) to draw on 
U.S. -based personnel to penetrate foreign markets. 

(2) Small and medium-sized companies, because they lack the world-class name 
recognition that might provide them with open access to foreign customers, tradi- 
tionally rely very heavily on Americans overseas to specify and purchase their prod- 
ucts. 

(3) Small and medium-sized companies are, by necessity, much more sensitive to 
individual cost elements and the financial bottom line. Without the $74,000 Section 
911 exclusion to help make overseas Americans more competitive with foreign na- 



129 


tionals, relatively few of these small and medium-sized companies would be able to 
hire Americans to fill overseas slots. 

In 1995, the Section 911 Coalition commissioned two independent studies to look 
at the impact of the foreign earned income exclusion on U.S. business. (A one-page 
summary of each study is attached to this testimony as Appendices D and E.) One 
study was conducted by Price Waterhouse LLP (Economic Analysis of the Foreign 
Earned Income Exclusion), while the other was undertaken by professors at The 
J ohns Flopkins University School of Advanced International Studies— SAIS (The Im- 
portance of Section 911 for U.S. International Competitiveness). Both studies rein- 
forced the long-held view that Section 911 is especially important to the "little guy" 
trying to do business overseas. (This also applies to American schools abroad, whose 
efforts to provide educational services overseas have played an instrumental role in 
promoting an American lifestyle and U.S. products.) The studies indicated that: 

• For small and medium-sized companies (0-500 employees), elimination of the 
Section 911 exclusion would have a significant impact on the ability of American 
workers abroad to keep their jobs. In a survey conducted by the SAIS professors for 
the Section 911 Coalition, nearly two-thirds (64 percent) of small and medium-sized 
respondents said elimination of Section 911 would result in a "moderate" change (6 
to 25 percent) or a "major" change (above 25 percent) in their ability to retain Amer- 
ican employees overseas. (In the same survey, 70 percent of large companies said 
elimination of Section 911 would result in some job loss change, and 38 percent said 
this change would be a moderate or major change.) 

• For small and medium-sized companies, elimination of Section 911 would have 
an even greater impact on prospective U.S. citizen hires that would be lost or sub- 
stituted with foreign nationals. Eighty-five percent of these companies said elimi- 
nation of Section 911 would result in a moderate or major change in their future 
hiring practices. (For small and medium-sized companies responding to the survey, 
32 percent of their total overseas employees are U.S. nationals.) Fifty-four percent 
of the large companies said elimination of Section 911 would result in a moderate 
or major change in their future hiring practices. 

• For small and medium-sized companies, elimination of Section 911 would have 
a substantial impact on these companies' abilities to secure projects or compete 
abroad. Eighty-two percent of these companies said the loss of this exclusion would 
result in a moderate or major change in their ability to secure projects or compete 
abroad. (The equivalent number for large companies was 64 percent.) 

• For small and large companies alike, there was widespread agreement that in- 
creasing the exclusion from $70,000 (in 1995) to $100,000 would have a substantive 
impact on their ability to secure projects. Sixty-five percent of respondents said their 
competitive advantage would improve, with 38 percent stating that the improve- 
ment would be moderate or major. 

• For small and medium-sized companies, U.S. nationals employed abroad are far 
more likely to source their imports of goods and services from the United States. 
Eighty-nine percent of these companies said there is a tendency to source American, 
with 76 percent stating that this is a "large tendency." (The equivalent number for 
large companies was 77 percent and 46 percent, respectively. This is especially 
meaningful because U.S. multinational corporations accounted in 1995 for 58 per- 
cent of U.S. exports and that almost half of that trade was between parent compa- 
nies and affiliates, according to the March 1995 "Survey of Current Business.") Sev- 
enty-seven percent of all respondents (small and large) made it clear that U.S. citi- 
zens abroad "Buy American" and that more than two-thirds of these found a "large 
tendency" to source U .S. goods and services. 

• With regard to compensation levels, the benefits of Section 911 are more impor- 
tant for lower-paid Americans abroad (such as employees of small companies, edu- 
cators, NGOs and non-profit organizations) than for higher-paid Americans abroad. 
If Section 911 had been eliminated in 1993, employers would have needed to in- 
crease compensation by 12.7 percent to protect the after-tax income of U.S. expatri- 
ates at the lower end of the income scale (base pay of $12,720 per year). At the 
other end of the scale, for those with a base pay of $152,640 per year, compensation 
would have needed to increase by an average of only 6.8 percent. 

This latter finding reinforces a 1993 U.S. Treasury Department study which noted 
that Section 911 is an important mechanism for mitigating the tax liability of lower 
income taxpayers working abroad. (U.S. Department of the Treasury, Taxation of 
Americans Working Overseas— Operation of the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion 
in 1987, J anuary 1993.) These facts do not support the negative "spin" that some 
would put on the foreign earned income exclusion— the wrongheaded suggestion 
that the exclusion benefits only the so-called corporate "fat cats." 

It is also important to note, however, that more senior (and consequently more 
expensive) managers working overseas tend to be best positioned to benefit the U .S. 



130 


economy most. The senior managers are more likely to influence the buying and hir- 
ing decisions of their company, and they are also more likely to assist other U.S. 
companies trying to do business abroad. In addition, they are the ones most apt to 
gain the international experience required by future senior executives for American 
companies looking to compete successfully in the increasingly global economy. 

Nevertheless, it is often very difficult to persuade key employees to adjust their 
career paths and family situations by leaving corporate headquarters and the 
United States. And from the companies' perspective, despite the many advantages 
of hiring American peak performers to head overseas offices, current tax policies 
tend to make this option prohibitively expensive. 

3. Nuts and Bolts: How Section 911 Works 

The cost of hiring an American varies widely around the world depending on such 
factors as local housing costs, local standards of living, availability of schools and 
recreation facilities, remoteness and hardships, and so forth. Nevertheless, it may 
be instructive to look at a typical example of how the foreign earned income exclu- 
sion works. The American Business Council of the Gulf Countries, an Executive 
Committee member of the Section 911 Coalition, provided the following example. 

The cost for a grade school student to attend the American School in Dubai 
is approximately $10,000 per year— not for an exclusive private school, but for 
the only American curriculum school there. If an employer reimburses this cost 
for two children, the employee has an additional $20,000 of imputed taxable "in- 
come." This places an additional tax burden on the individual of up to $8,000. 

If the employer chooses to make the reimbursement of this schooling cost tax- 
neutral to the employee, the total reimbursement cost to the company could ex- 
ceed $33,000 (including the compounding effect of tax reimbursements, which 
are also considered taxable "income" to the employee). This represents a 
$13,000 (65 percent) additional cost to the company to provide education for the 
American employee's children (compared to providing the same education for 
children of a comparable European employee)— simply because of U.S. tax pol- 
icy. 

If the employer provides an annual trip back to the United States for home 
leave for the employee and family (spouse and two children), the employee has 
an additional $10,000 or more of taxable "income." Emergency and sympathy 
travel generate taxable income; cost of living adjustments are considered tax- 
able income: hardship allowances are taxable income: tax reimbursement is tax- 
able income. 

I n other words, as this typical example shows, taxable compensation that does not 
represent either "perks" or disposable income to the employee typically absorbs a 
very large part of the current $74,000 exclusion. This is a burden borne solely by 
Americans, significantly hampering their ability to compete in the international 
arena. 

The National Constructors Association, another member of the Coalition's Execu- 
tive Committee, asked one of its member companies in recent years to compare the 
annual costs of employing an engineer with and without the benefit of Section 911. 
The results of this comparison are striking: 



Hong Kong 

United Kingdom 

Saudi Arabia 

Chile 

Engineer's Base Pay 

$112,800 

$100,000 

$121,824 

$100,000 

Tax Cost to Company with 911 
Exdusion 

$11,743 

$34,275 

$11,433 

$4,843 

Tax Cost to Company without 911 
Exdusion 

$103,513 

$51,151 

$66,019 

$27,413 

1 ncreased Tax Cost to Company 

$91,770 

$16,876* 

$54,586 

$22,570* 


*ln high tax countries, these savings may not be typical but may be realized in certain dual-contract situa- 
tions. It should also be noted that the tax burden shown above includes taxes on allowances. 


While the Section 911 exclusion is particularly helpful in low-tax foreign jurisdic- 
tions like Saudi Arabia and Hong Kong, it can also make a very substantial dif- 
ference in those nations with relatively high levels of individual income tax. Filings 
of I nternal Revenue Service F orm 2555 provide an adequate measure of those Amer- 
icans abroad utilizing the Section 911 exclusion. According to IRS figures, nearly 
two-thirds (61.8 percent) of Forms 2555 filed in 1987 were submitted by Americans 
in just 15 nations. (Internal Revenue Service, SOI Bulletin, Winter 1992-93, p. 86.) 



131 


The vast majority of these nations— led by Germany and the United Kingdom, with 
Canada and J apan not far behind— are considered relatively high-tax jurisdictions. 
This was consistent with the 1995 Price Waterhouse LLP findings which note that, 
absent Section 911, required compensation would increase by an average of 8.6 per- 
cent in Australia, 8.0 percent in Japan, 5.4 percent in Switzerland, 4.5 percent in 
France, 3.3 percent in Canada, and 3.1 percent in Germany (In Economic Analysis 
of the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion, Price Waterhouse LLP calculated the aver- 
age change in compensation required if Section 911 were repealed for all expatriates 
at all income levels in each of the 15 nations.) 

According to the Price Waterhouse LLP study. Section 911 can be beneficial in 
high-tax countries for a number of often overlooked reasons, including: 

• Countries with very high statutory rates may have generous deductions and 
exclusions that result in relatively low tax liability, particularly for taxpayers 
at modest income levels; 

• International assignments often begin or end at mid-year, resulting in little 
foreign income tax liability in the year of assignment and/or return; 

• Unlike the foreign tax credit. Section 911 may cause U.S. source income of 
Americans working abroad to be taxed in lower U.S. income tax brackets. 

In short, no matter where in the world U.S. companies and American citizens 
work, the Section 911 exclusion can make a substantial difference for U.S. competi- 
tiveness. 


4. Voices from Abroad: Americans Speak Out on Section 911 

By their very presence overseas, U.S. citizens help to promote America's national 
interests. This is true of all Americans abroad— whether they are representatives 
of major U.S. corporations, cultural or religious institutions, service providers, edu- 
cators, entrepreneurs, heads of charitable organizations, or homemakers. Americans 
abroad foster a positive image of the United States throughout the world while also 
contributing to our nation's economic and cultural well-being at home. 

Based on 1995 survey feedback received by professors at TheJ ohns Flopkins Uni- 
versity (SAIS), Americans who use the foreign earned income exclusion come from 
all walks of life and can be found in all parts of the globe. From these expatriates' 
comments, a sampling of which are provided below, it is also clear that Section 911 
makes a substantial difference in the lives of Americans abroad. 

"When I first arrived here, Americans from our firm in the U.S. totaled 90 
percent of our professional staff. As time progressed, because of the high cost 
of the tax equalization program, we first changed to hiring local Americans 
[those not recruited from the United States] and some foreign nationals. Each 
year as the cost of Americans increased (the reduction to $70,000 exclusion real- 
ly hurt) we have slowly reduced our American percentage to today's 28 percent. 
These professionals not only 'buy American' for our company needs, but as con- 
sultants to local businesses also recommend American products to foreign com- 
panies. Without U.S. taxes overseas, we would double the number of Americans 
employed." 

"In 1988 when I joined [Company X] our U.S. imports were 0. Since starting 
our major import program in 1991 we are now (1994) importing over 120 con- 
tainers of U.S. product annually plus air freight delivery of U.S. produce and 
beef on a weekly basis." 

"Without the tax exclusion, we would not be able to attract U.S. citizens to 
work at our school and they would be replaced by locally hired Mexican nation- 
als. U.S. textbooks and supplies would probably be discontinued and Spanish 
materials would be used in their place." 

"It becomes very obvious to me around October of each year when the physi- 
cians submit their budget requests to me how nationality affects one's thinking. 
The American (or American trained) physicians will request U.S. manufactured 
supplies, equipment and pharmaceutical items. Likewise the Germans, British 
and French physicians request those that they are more familiar with." 

"As we are strictly tuition based, an increase in personnel costs is directly re- 
flected in the cost of tuition. In the past we have chosen to hire less expensive 
teachers from other countries. If we raise tuition, many companies will not send 
families to Korea. American businesses need a high quality school in Seoul in 
order to convince their best people to come. Were we to lose our Section 911 
it would have a serious impact on the competitiveness of other American busi- 
nesses in Korea." 



132 


"If the exclusion is lost, the company will probably lose the American manage- 
ment it prides itself on and turn to Saudis or British nationals. If this happens, 
the odds of Americans ever working for this company again will be nil." 

"Under [President] Carter, the tax exclusion was eliminated, U.S. companies 
pulled out of many foreign locations (or greatly reduced their expatriate contin- 
gent) and U.S. overseas schools suffered tremendous enrollment/revenue losses. 
The losses were compensated by increasing host country populations in the 
schools, an effect which is still felt today, particularly in Latin America." 

"We constantly hear it clearly stated by business people here that they would 
not be here if they did not have access to an American educational program. 
During the last draw down of the exclusion in the late seventies, the availability 
of teachers willing to come overseas to work dropped significantly. They saw no 
advantage to being overseas." 

"Elimination of the Section 911 exclusion and even the current limitation dic- 
tates that we recruit on a cost-effective basis; i.e., lower cost nationalities due 
to tax advantages. This will be particularly true for our smelter project in [coun- 
try X] which requires an expatriate staff of about 185. Projections are that be- 
tween 60-80 percent will beTCNs [third-country nationals]." 

"Administering an overseas school in 1980 in Bangladesh when the foreign 
earned income exclusion was taken away, I observed first hand the impact on 
American business, especially on the construction industry. I was building a 
new school at the time for $4,000,000, half of which was financed by the U.S. 
government. There were 2 bidders: a U.S. company and a Korean company. The 
Americans lost the contract on price, and the difference was the tax on U.S. per- 
sonnel! ... It was proven back then that abolishing the 911 exemption cost 
money: it didn't gain a dime. Have we learned nothing from experience?" 

The Section 911 Coalition believes that having Americans overseas is not just 
helpful, it is essential. In effect, taxation of foreign earned income amounts to a 
shortsighted, indirect tax on U.S. exports and American culture. This is a debili- 
tating and entirely self-inflicted wound— a policy which discriminates against Amer- 
ica's companies, U.S. workers, and American educational institutions abroad. 

5. Tax Policy I mplications of Section 911 

The concept of a foreign earned income exclusion has been part of U.S. tax law 
for more than 70 years. During that time, the exclusion has undergone a number 
of configurations. The debate over whether to increase Section 911, decrease Section 
911, or maintain it at current levels centers on an evaluation of basic tax policy ra- 
tionalefor and implications of such an exclusion. 

The results of the 1995 Price Waterhouse LLP study suggest that the traditional 
standards for evaluating income tax provisions— fairness and economic efficiency— 
justify exclusion of the portion of foreign earned income attributable to the addi- 
tional costs of living abroad. The Section 911 exclusion is an approximate method 
for meeting the ^uity and efficiency standards and also satisfies a third tax policy 
objective: simplicity. 

Fairness— Price Waterhouse LLP noted that the concept of "ability to pay" taxes 
is inherently subjective, but that it has generally been recognized that an individ- 
ual's costs associated with earning income reduce the ability to pay taxes and should 
be deducted. By this logic, individuals on international assignment should not be 
taxed on that part of their compensation which reasonably reflects the added costs 
of working abroad (extra housing costs, the education of children, home leave, cost- 
of-living adjustments, etc). 

Economic Efficiency— This standard dictates that the tax law not interfere with 
the efficient allocation of resources. Economic efficiency suggests that in foreign 
markets, American workers should be allowed to compete according to prevailing 
rules. Absent Section 911, Price Waterhouse LLP found, the tax law would fre- 
quently discourage U.S. companies from hiring Americans in overseas positions, 
causing foreign nationals to be hired even where Americans would, but for taxes, 
be preferred. 

Simplicity— By all accounts, the Section 911 exclusion simplifies deductions re- 
volving around doing business overseas, especially when compared to the 1978 rules 
that the current exclusion replaced. 

Three additional tax policy standards are often used to evaluate U.S. tax provi- 
sions that affect international income: competitiveness, harmonization, and protec- 
tion of the U.S. tax base. Once again. Price Waterhouse LLP found that the Section 
911 exclusion clearly meets these standards. 



133 


International competitiveness— This standard requires that U.S. capital and labor 
employed in foreign markets bear the same tax burden as foreign capital and labor 
i n those markets. Price Waterhouse LLP noted that for Americans abroad, 

"the competitiveness standard would be achieved if the United States ex- 
cluded all foreign earned income without the $70,000 limitation in present law. 
In this way, Americans working abroad would be subject only to foreign income 
taxes on their foreign earned income in exactly the same manner as foreign 
workers are taxed." 

Harmonization— Price Waterhouse LLP pointed out that Section 911 provides a 
"glaring example of the failure on the part of the United States to harmonize with 
international tax practice. As noted by the General Accounting Office, the United 
States is the only major industrial power that taxes its individuals on the basis of 
citizenship rather than residence. In today's global economy . . . the failure of the 
United States to harmonize the tax treatment of expatriate workers means that 
U.S. citizens are more expensive to employ abroad than citizens of many other in- 
dustrial nations. In summary, the principle of tax harmonization strongly argues for 
complete exclusion of foreign earned income" as was the case in the United States 
during the period 1926-1952. 

Protecting the U.S. Tax Base— This standard is intended to prevent U.S. source 
income from escaping the income tax net. The Section 911 exclusion does not under- 
mine the U.S. tax base because the exclusion has been carefully designed to prevent 
U.S. source income from escaping U.S. taxation. 

In summary, according to the Price Waterhouse LLP study, "an unlimited foreign 
earned income exclusion would be consistent with the international tax policy stand- 
ards of competitiveness, preservation of the U.S. tax base, and harmonization. Thus 
it would be appropriate to lift the . . . cap on the foreign earned income exclusion 
to better achieve these tax policy objectives." 

6. Conclusion: I ncreasing Section 911 = I ncreasing Business and J obs 

As I noted at the outset of my remarks today, Americans Abroad = U.S. Exports 
= U.S. Jobs. Perhaps more than any other provision of law. Section 911 helps to 
put U.S. citizens "in the field" around the world where they buy American, sell 
American, specify American, hire American, and create opportunities for other 
Americans. As such. Section 911 has a direct impact on the competitiveness of 
American workers and U.S. companies operating in foreign markets— a substantial 
growth area for the United States as we move into the twenty-first century. 

To help place America on a more level footing with our trade competitors, the Sec- 
tion 911 Coalition encourages Congress to adjust the foreign earned income exclu- 
sion, beginning in calendar year 2000, to compensate for the effects of inflation since 
1983, when the exclusion was frozen at $80,000. This will not make American work- 
ers and companies as competitive as an unlimited exclusion would, but it is cer- 
tainly an important step in the right direction. U.S. -based jobs are on the line, espe- 
cially for small and medium-sized businesses, and we look forward to an opportunity 
to work with the Ways and Means Committee to strengthen Section 911 -an 
unheralded but vital part of the U.S. tax code. 

Thank you, Mr. Chairman, for the opportunity to testify today. I would be pleased 
to answer any questions that you or the Committee might have. 


APPENDIX A 

Section 911 Coalition Members 


American Business 
Council of the Gulf 
Countries 

American Citizens Abroad 
American Consulting 
Engineers Council 
American Express 
American Institute of 
Architects 

American International 
School of Budapest 


Asia Pacific Council of 
American Chambers of 
Commerce 
Ass'n of American 
Chambers of Commerce 
in Latin America 
Association of Americans 
Resident Overseas 
BDM International, Inc. 
Baker Hughes, I nc. 
Bechtel Group, I nc. 


Booz-Allen & Hamilton 
Arabia 

Brown and Root/ 
Halliburton 
COLSA International 
CRSS— Metcalf & Eddy 
J oint Venture 
Caltex Petroleum 
Corporation 
Caterpillar, Inc. 
Chicago Bridge Si Iron 
Company 



134 


Chrysler Technologies 
Corp.— Middle East Ltd. 
Coalition for Employment 
through Exports, Inc. 
Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
Culligan Italiana SpA 
Cummins Engine 
Company, Inc. 

Deloitte & Touche LLP 
Democrats Abroad 
Dillingham Construction 
I nternational, I nc. 
Dresser Industries, Inc. 
Economic Strategy 
I nstitute Employee 
Relocation Council 
European Council of 
American Chambers of 
Commerce 
EMC Arabia Ltd. 
Federated League of 
Americans Around the 
Globe 

Federation of American 
Women's Clubs 
Overseas 
Fluor Corporation 
Foster Wheeler 
Floechst Celanese 
Corporation 

Flughes Saudi Arabia Ltd. 


Intercom International 
Consultants 
Int'l Engineering & 
Construction Industries 
Council 

International School of 
Islamabad 

International School of 
Tanganyika 
International Schools 
Services 

J .A. J ones Construction 
J ohn Brown Constructors 
J uraid & Company 
Lockheed Middle East 
Services 

Loral Corporation 
M.W. Kellogg Company 
Mansour General 
Dynamics Ltd. 
McDonnell Douglas 
Middle East Ltd. 

Middle East Policy 
Council 

National Constructors 
Association 
Occidental Petroleum 
Corporation 
Oracle Corporation 
Parsons Brinckerhoff 
Parsons Corporation 


Republicans Abroad 
Saudi American Bank 
Saudi Arabian 
International School — 
Dhahran 
Saudi Arabian 
International School — 
Riyadh 

Science Applications 
International 
Corporation 

Small Business Exporters 
Associ at ion 
Sogerep, Ltd. 

Stafford & Paulsworth 
Stone & Webster, I nc. 

U.S. Chamber of 
Commerce 
United Technologies 
Unocal Corporation 
Verdala International 
Schools 

Vinnell Corporation— 
Saudi Arabia 
Vinnell Corporation— 
U.S.A. 

Westinghouse Electric 
Corporation 
World Federation of 
Americans Abroad 


APPENDIX B 


The Effect of Inflation on the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion Amount 

Introduction 

This report updates information on the effect of inflation on the real value of the 
foreign earned income exclusion amount, which was originally included in an Octo- 
ber 1995 report (entitled Economic Analysis of the Foreign Earned Income Exclu- 
sion) prepared by Price Waterhouse LLP for The Section 911 Coalition. 

Under the provisions of Section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code, a U.S. citizen 
or resident alien whose tax home is outside the United States, and who meets a 
foreign residence or foreign presence test, may exclude from gross income in 1999 
up to $74,000 per year of foreign earned income plus a housing cost amount. Flis- 
torically, the principal rationale for the exclusion has been to make the tax treat- 
ment of Americans working abroad more competitive with that of foreign nationals 
and, thereby, to promote exports of U.S. goods and services. 

FIistory of the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion 

The foreign earned income exclusion originally was enacted in 1926 to help pro- 
mote U.S. exports. From 1926 to 1952, the exclusion was unlimited, corresponding 
to the present day practice of other major industrial countries. From 1953 to 1977, 
the exclusion was limited to $20,000 per year; however, for Americans working 
abroad for more than three years, the exclusion was increased to $35,000 from 1962 
to 1964 and subsequently reduced to $25,000 from 1965 to 1977. 

In 1978, the Foreign Earned Income Act replaced the Section 911 exclusion with 
Section 913, a series of deductions for certain excess costs of living abroad. 

The Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981 restored Section 911 and increased the 
exclusion to $75,000 in 1982 with scheduled increases to $95,000 in 1986. The legis- 
lative history indicates that Congress was concerned that the rules enacted in 1978 
made it more expensive to hire Americans abroad compared to foreign nationals, re- 
duced U.S. exports, rendered the United States less competitive abroad, and due to 



135 


the complexity, the new rules required many Americans employed abroad to use 
professional tax preparers. 

Among a number of other deficit reduction measures, the Deficit Reduction Act 
of 1984 delayed the scheduled increases in the foreign earned income exclusion, 
freezing the benefit at $80,000 through 1987. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 reduced 
the exclusion to $70,000 beginning in 1987. The exclusion remained at this level 
through 1997. 


Present Law 

The Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 increased the $70,000 exclusion to $80,000 in in- 
crements of $2,000 beginning in 1998. The following table shows the exclusion 
amounts specified by the Act. 

Table 1.- Present Law Section 911 Exclusion Amounts 


Calendar Year 

Exclusion Amount 

1998 

1999 

2000 

2001 

2002-2007 

2008 and thereafter 

$72,000 

$74,000 

$76,000 

$78,000 

$80,000 

$80,000 adjusted for inflation 


As noted in the table, beginning in 2008 the $80,000 exclusion for foreign earned 
income will be adjusted for inflation. Thus, for any calendar year after 2007, the 
exclusion amount will be equal to $80,000 times the cost-of-living adjustment for 
that calendar year. The cost-of-living adjustment will be calculated using the meth- 
cdology that adjusts the income brackets in the tax rate schedules (Section 1(f)(3) 
of the Internal Revenue Code). The Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers 
(CPI-U) that is published by the Department of Labor will be used to determine the 
adjustment. Specifically, the cost-of-living adjustment for a calendar year will equal 
the CPI-L) for the preceding calendar year divided by the CPI-L) for calendar year 
2006 (the base year). The Internal Revenue Code further specifies that, in making 
this calculation, the CPI-L) for a calendar year is to be calculated as the average 
of the CPI-L) as of the close of the 12-month period ending on August 31 of such 
calendar year. Finally, the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 stipulates that if the ad- 
justed exclusion amount is not a multiple of $100, then it is to be rounded to the 
next lowest multiple of $100. 

For this report, we have estimated the inflation-adjusted exclusion amounts for 
2008 and 2009 to be $82,000 and $84,200, respectively. These estimates assume 
that the CPI-L) will increase by 2.6 percent annually beginning in calendar year 
2000. This assumption is based on the Congressional Budget Office's (CBO) most 
recent published economic projections (The Economic and Budget Outlook: Fiscal 
Years 2000-2009, J anuary 1999, Table 1.4). 

Effect of I nflation 

Figure 1 shows the exclusion amount in both nominal and real (1999) dollars. The 
nominal dollar line shows the exclusion amounts specified by legislation. The effect 
of the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 is shown starting in 1998 when the exclusion 
amount begins to increase in $2,000 increments from the $70,000 amount estab- 
lished by the Tax Reform Act of 1986. In 2002, the exclusion amount reaches 
$80,000 and remains at that level until 2008 when the exclusion amount begins to 
be adjusted for inflation. 

As illustrated in Figure 1, the real value of the exclusion has dropped substan- 
tially. In real 1999 dollars, the 1999 exclusion amount of $74,000 is 45 percent 
below its level in 1983 ($134,197 in 1999 dollars) when the nominal dollar amount 
of the exclusion ($80,000) reached its highest level after the 1981 Act. 

Figure 1 also shows that the real value of the exemption is projected to continue 
to fall after 1999, even though theTaxpayer Relief Act of 1997 eventually will raise 
the exclusion amount to $80,000. 

The provision to adjust the exclusion amount for inflation will stabilize the real 
value of the exclusion amount beginning in 2008. Based on the CBO's projection 
that consumer prices will be 2.5 percent higher in 1999 than they were in 1998 and 
that annual price increases will amount to 2.6 percent thereafter, the value of the 
exclusion amount will stabilize at approximately $65,150 in 1999 dollars— an 



136 


amount that is 12 percent below the current exclusion amount in real terms and 
51 percent below the 1983 peak as measured in 1999 dollars. 

Conclusion 

Since the Section 911 exclusion amount has not been automatically indexed for 
inflation in the way that the Internal Revenue Code adjusts the income tax tables 
and other dollar amounts, the real value of the exclusion has dropped substantially. 
If the $80,000 exclusion that was in effect in 1983 had been continually adjusted 
for inflation, the exclusion would be approximately $134,000 in 1999. Based on cur- 
rent CBO projections of inflation, the exclusion amount in the year 2000 would be 
nearly $138,000. 


O) 

o 

o 

cy « 

cvi cB 
00 = 
o> o 
Q 



o 

0 ) 

0) 





137 


APPENDIX C 

The Foreign Earned Income Exclusion 

A Short History 

The foreign earned income exciusion has been part of the Internai Revenue Code 
since 1926, when it was uniimited for bona fide residents of a foreign country. Con- 
gress enacted the exciusion more than 70 years ago in an effort to "encourage citi- 
zens to go abroad and to pi ace them in an ^uai position with citizens of other coun- 
tries going abroad who are not taxed by their own countries." (Senate Report No. 
781, 82nd Congress, 1st Session, 1951, pp. 52-53.) 

Limiting the foreign earned income exciusion is a concept that goes back to 1953, 
when Congress first capped the exciusion. I n the immediate aftermath of Worid War 
II, there may have been a good reason for limiting the exclusion. However, times 
have changed dramatically since the 1950s, when the U.S. economy was a global 
colossus with no serious competition, and U.S. tax policy has not kept pace with the 
changing times. 

In 1978, the Foreign Earned Income Act replaced the exclusion with a series of 
deductions for certain expenses associated with living abroad (former Section 913). 
American workers and U.S. companies in overseas markets were hit hard by the 
1978 amendments and lost considerable overseas market share as a result. Recog- 
nizing this. Congress in 1981 restored the flat earned income exclusion (Section 911) 
at $75,000 per year for 1982 with scheduled increases to $95,000 in 1986. Noting 
that the rules enacted in 1978 reduced exports. Congress in 1981 "was concerned 
with the increasing competitive pressures that American businesses faced abroad. 
The Congress decided that in view of the nation's continuing trade deficits, it is im- 
portant to allow Americans working overseas to contribute to the effort to keep 
American business competitive" through Section 911. (J oint Committee on Taxation, 
General Explanation of the Economic Recovery Tax Act of 1981, J CS-71-81, Decem- 
ber 29, 1981, p. 43.) 

The exclusion was revisited in 1984 and 1986. The Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 
delayed the scheduled increases in the exclusion, freezing the benefit at $80,000 (the 
1983 benefit level) through 1987. The Tax Reform Act of 1986 reduced the exclusion 
to $70,000, and it remained at that level through 1997. The Taxpayer Relief Act of 
1997 increased the $70,000 exclusion to $80,000 in increments of $2,000 per year, 
beginning in 1998. In addition, beginning in the year 2008, the $80,000 exclusion 
will be adjusted for inflation. 

Because the exclusion has not been adjusted for inflation over the years, its real 
value has dropped substantially. According to a J une 28, 1999 report by 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, the 1999 exclusion amount, in real dollars, is 45 per- 
cent below its level in 1983, following passage of the Economic Recovery Tax Act 
of 1981. (The exclusion in 1983 was $80,000 in nominal dollars and $134,197 in 
1999 dollars.) If the $80,000 exclusion that was in effect in 1983 had been contin- 
ually adjusted for inflation, the exclusion would be approximately $134,000 in 1999, 
rising to nearly $138,000 in the year 2000. 

The real value of the exclusion is projected to continue falling after 1999 and is 
expected to stabilize in the year 2007 at approximately $65,150 in 1999 dollars. 
Looked at from a "purchasing power" point of view, the value of the exclusion will 
have plummeted in real dollars from $134,197 (1983) to $65,150 (2007)— a dev- 
astating loss of nearly $70,000 in 1999 dollars. 

Many Members of Congress serving today were not witness to the extensive Con- 
gressional debates which resulted in the enactment of the exclusion in 1981. As a 
result, this short history should provide some insights into why the exclusion came 
about, why it provides a return to the U.S. economy that far exceeds its estimated 
revenue losses, and why the Section 911 exclusion has such an impact on U.S. busi- 
ness competitiveness overseas. 

I n the 1970s, in an effort to move away from the foreign earned income exclusion. 
Congress took steps that proved to be disastrous. The Tax Reform Act of 1976 gen- 
erally reduced the exclusion to $15,000 per year. While this cut in the exclusion did 
not take effect in the end, it nevertheless had a "chilling" effect on U.S. companies' 
efforts to send American workers abroad. A 1978 General Accounting Office (GAO) 
survey of 183 U.S. companies found that more than 80 percent of these companies 
felt that reducing the exclusion along the lines of the 1976 Act would result in a 




138 


reduction of U.S. exports by at least five percent. (U.S. GAO, Impact on Trade of 
Changes in Taxation of U.S. Citizens Employed Overseas, ID-78- 13, February 21, 
1978.) 

Two years after the 1976 Act, the situation went from bad to worse. The Foreign 
Earned Income Act of 1978 repealed the foreign earned income exclusion and put 
in its place Section 913, composed of five factors: (1) A cost-of-living deduction based 
on the differential between U.S. and overseas costs of living: (2) A housing deduc- 
tion: (3) A deduction for schooling expenses where a U.S. -type school was not within 
a reasonable commuting distance: (4) A travel expense deduction for an annual 
round-trip visit to the United States: 5) A deduction for work in a hardship area. 

The 1978 Act, compared to prior law, represented a 23 percent reduction in the 
tax benefit of the exclusion. To determine the impact of this reduction, the GAO con- 
ducted a survey in 1980 of 33 key firms in four industries. The GAO found that ad- 
ditional costs attributable to the 1978 Act was a primary reason why these firms 
had decreased their employment of Americans abroad. The numbers decreased abso- 
lutely from 1979 to 1980 in three of the industries and, during the period 1976 to 
1980, the relative number of Americans abroad dropped compared to third country 
nationals. (U.S. GAO, American Employment Abroad Discouraged by U.S. Income 
Tax Laws, ID-81- 29, February 27, 1981.) 

As a result of these findings, the 1981 GAO report produced the following rec- 
ommendation: 

"We believe that the Congress should consider placing Americans working 
abroad on an income tax basis comparable with that of citizens of competitor 
countries who generally are not taxed on their foreign earned income." 

The GAO went on to say that "complete exclusion or a limited but generous exclu- 
sion of foreign earned income for qualifying taxpayers . . . would establish a basis 
of taxation comparable with that of competitor countries and, at the same time, be 
relatively simple to administer." 

Findings in a 1980 report by Chase Econometrics provided more evidence of the 
dangers for U.S. competitiveness of restricting the foreign earned income exclusion. 
As a result of the changes in 1976 and 1978, Chase noted, a significant number of 
Americans working overseas would be forced to return home. Chase determined that 
a ten percent drop in Americans overseas would lead to a five percent drop in U.S. 
exports. The study went on to say that the "drop in U.S. income due to a five per- 
cent drop in real exports will raise domestic unemployment by 80,000 [persons] and 
reduce federal receipts on personal and corporate income taxes by more than $6 bil- 
lion, many times the value of increased taxes on overseas workers." (Chase Econo- 
metrics, Economic Impact of Changing Taxation of U.S. Workers Overseas, J une 
1980, p. 2.) 

The U .S. & Overseas Tax Fairness Committee, an ad hoc group established in the 
late 1970s to defend the foreign earned income exclusion, noted in 1980 that "of all 
the current U.S. disincentives that discourage trade, none is easier to eliminate 
than the U.S. practices of taxing foreign earned income . . . and none will produce 
faster or more substantial results for our balance of trade." In an effort to show 
what damage the 1976 and 1978 Acts had done as of 1980, the Committee cited the 
example of the U.S. construction and engineering industry operating in the Middle 
East. American companies in this sector "had over ten percent of the construction 
volume in the Middle East four years ago and now has less than two percent— al- 
most entirely due to the current U.S. tax treatment of overseas Americans," the 
Committee noted, "and industry is finding it very difficult to recapture its former 
standing." (U.S. & Overseas Tax Fairness Committee, Press Release, June 16, 
1980.) 


The message is as clear today as it was in 1980: Changes in the foreign earned 
income exclusion generate a substantial and direct impact— positive or negative- 
on the ability of U.S. companies and American workers to compete in overseas mar- 
kets. 



139 


APPENDIX D 

Highlights of the Price Waterhouse Study 

"Economic Analysis of the Foreign Earned Income Exclusion" 

Price Waterhouse LLP, in a study prepared in 1995 for the Section 911 Coaiition, 
found that: 

• The U.S. is the oniy major industriai country that does not compieteiy exempt 
from taxation the foreign earned income of its citizens working abroad. 

• Because the Section 911 exciusion is not adjusted for infiation, its reai vaiue 
has dropped by 43 percent since 1982. If the exclusion had been adjusted for infla- 
tion since it was set at $70,000 in 1987, the exclusion would rise to over $111,000 
in the year 2000. If the exclusion is not indexed for inflation soon, its value will 
continue to decline. 

• Without the Section 911 exclusion, compensation levels for Americans abroad 
would need to increase by an average of 7.19 percent to preserve after-tax income. 
Section 911 was shown to provide benefits in both low tax and high tax nations. 
Moreover, the exclusion represents a larger share of the compensation of low income 
than of high income Americans working abroad. 

• A 7.19 percent increase in required compensation would result in a 2.83 percent 
decrease in Americans working abroad. Without Section 911, U.S. exports would de- 
cline by 1.89 percent or $8.7 billion. This translates into a loss of approximately 
143,000 U.S. -based jobs. [N.B. -These figures do not include service-related jobs or 
indirect employment, which would likely doublethe number of jobs lost.] 

• From a tax policy standpoint, the 911 exclusion meets the traditional standards 
for evaluating income tax provisions: Fairness— Absent Section 911, Americans 
working abroad would pay much higher taxes than U.S. -based workers with the 
same base pay. Economic efficiency— Absent 911, U.S. tax law would discourage 
U.S. companies from hiring Americans in overseas positions, causing foreign nation- 
als to be hired even where Americans would, but for taxes, be preferred. Sim- 
plicity— The current structure of Section 911 was specifically enacted by Congress 
in 1981 in reaction to the unmanageable complexity of the rules enacted in 1978. 

• Section 911 also adheres to three additional tax policy standards often used to 
evaluate provisions that affect international income: Competitiveness— The competi- 
tiveness standard, that U.S. capital and labor employed in foreign markets bear the 
same tax burden as foreign capital and labor in those markets, would be achieved 
if the U.S. excluded all foreign earned income (without the current cap). Protecting 
the U.S. tax base— Section 911 applies only to income that is earned abroad for ac- 
tivities that are performed abroad by individuals who are not residents of the USA. 
Flarmonization— True harmonization with other nations would require an unlimited 
exclusion, as was in effect in the USA from 1926 to 1952. 


APPENDIX E 

Section 911 Survey Results are in 

Survey Finds Exclusion is Especially Important to Small & Medium-Sized 

Companies 

The Section 911 Coalition has announced the findings of its "American Competi- 
tiveness Survey." With nearly 150 companies and associations responding to the 
survey, it represents the largest and most broad-based Section 911 survey ever con- 
ducted. 

The six-page survey examined the importance of the $70,000 foreign earned in- 
come exclusion (under Section 911 of the U.S. Tax Code) and its impact on Amer- 
ica's global competitiveness. A report prepared by economists at the] ohns Flopkins 
University School of Advanced International Studies, Drs. Charles Pearson and 
J ames Riedel, found that: 

• The Section 911 exclusion is especially important to small and medium-sized 
firms (including International and American schools abroad), which are at least ten 
times more dependent on Section 911 than are the large firms that were surveyed. 
Eighty-two percent of small and medium-sized firms said that a loss of the exclusion 



140 


would result In a moderate (6 to 25 percent) or major (above 25 percent) change In 
their ability to compete abroad. 

• Nearly two-thirds (65 percent) of respondents felt that their ability to secure 
projects and compete abroad would be improved if the exclusion ($70,000 in 1995) 
were raised to $100,000— a long-standing position of Americans resident overseas. 

• Americans abroad showed a strong tendency to source goods and services pro- 
duced in the United States. Seventy-seven percent of respondents said that nation- 
ality has an effect on sourcing decisions. Among small and medium-sized firms, the 
number is even higher: 89 percent said their American expatriate employees prefer 
to Buy American. 

• Compensation costs are significant in determining whether or not to hire U.S. 
nationals overseas, and the Section 911 exclusion is important in holding down com- 
pensation costs. Eighty percent of respondents said elimination of Section 911 would 
have a moderate or major negative effect on compensation costs, with 66 percent 
saying elimination of the exclusion would have an important negative impact on fu- 
ture hiring practices. 

The survey results strongly suggest that the Section 911 exclusion plays a key 
role in America's competitiveness and the creation of U.S. jobs through exports. For 
further information, please contact the Section 911 Coalition. 


Chairman Archer. Thank you, Mr. Hamod. Mr. Dean, you may 
proceed. 

STATEMENT OF WARREN L. DEAN, J R., PARTNER, THOMPSON 

COBURN LLP, AND REPRESENTATIVE, SUBPART F SHIPPING 

COALITION 

Mr. Dean. Good afternoon. Chairman Archer, and distinguished 
Members of the Committee. On behaif of the Subpart F Shipping 
Coaiition, i commend the Committee for examining U.S. inter- 
nationai tax poiicy and its impact on competitiveness in the U.S. 
economy. 

The Subpart F Shipping Coaiition is a group of U.S.-controiied 
foreign-fiag shipping companies that are adverseiy affected by U.S. 
internationai tax poiicy. They strongiy support the Shaw-J efferson 
biii, Fi.R. 265, the Shipping income Reform Act of 1999, which is 
pending before the Committee. 

Mr. Chairman, i represent the interests of transportation compa- 
nies engaged in foreign commerce. For the iast 10 years, i have 
aiso been an adjunct professor in internationai transportation iaw 
in the graduate program of Georgetown University Law Center, i 
have taught and written extensiveiy on the affects of U.S. tax and 
reguiatory poiicy on the competitiveness of U.S. enterprise. 

To make a iong story short, Mr. Chairman, if the United States 
wants a shipping presence of any kind, U.S. or foreign fiag in its 
foreign commerce, then the appiication of Subpart F to shipping in- 
come has got to go. it is just that simpie. Subpart F's affect on the 
economy is essentiaiiy threefoid. it erodes the competitiveness of 
the shipping industry, it effects the resuits of the woridwide con- 
soiidation affecting shipping. And it has an adverse affect on U.S. 
exports that are carried by that shipping. 

Prior to the inciusion of shipping income in Subpart F in 1975, 
the United States owned approximateiy 25 percent of the worid 
fieet. That number has deciined to 5 percent today and is con- 
tinuing to faii fast. As U.S.-controiied investment in shipping has 
deciin^, so has seaiift capabiiity and the Treasury revenues from 
that income. 



141 


The National Foreign Trade Council's recently completed study 
entitled 'The NFTC Foreign Income Project International Tax Pol- 
icy for the 21st Century" confirms those findings. The study 
showed that the U.S. -control led foreign fleet cannot afford to com- 
pete effectively in an international market against trading partners 
that have adopted tax policies and incentives to support their inter- 
national shipping industries. 

Last, the purpose of the inclusion of shipping income in Subpart 
F has not been achieved. Shipping industry tax revenues decreased 
from approximately $90 million in the year before 1975 (that's $250 
million in today's dollars) that resulted from the voluntary repatri- 
ation of dividends from that income— to less than $50 million 
today. 

Further, the application of Subpart F to shipping income has af- 
fected the trend in worldwide consolidation in transportation indus- 
tries. To survive in increasingly competitive international markets, 
transportation enterprises, like American President Lines, must be 
able to expand their operations, often through combinations with 
other carriers. Assuming a suitable foreign flag carrier can be iden- 
tified, the only question then is the form of the merged entity, 
whether the U.S. carrier is the acquired or the acquiring company. 
That decision should be a marketplace decision, even though there 
are compelling national interests at stake in preserving U.S. con- 
trol over U.S. flag shipping. 

Subpart F's application to foreign-based shipping income of com- 
panies like American President Lines ensures that the surviving 
company cannot be a U.S. taxpayer. If the foreign corporation ac- 
quires American President Lines and rationalizes its operations, 
none of its foreign flag vessels will be subject to U.S. taxation. If, 
on the other hand, American President Lines were to acquire a for- 
eign company, all of the foreign flag vessels of the combined enter- 
prise would be subject to current U.S. taxes. In cases like the ac- 
quisition of American President Lines or the acquisition of Lykes 
Steamship Co. by a Canadian corporation, those cases demonstrate 
that Subpart F substantially harms the competitiveness of U.S.- 
owned foreign-flag shipping, fails to raise revenues, and it ad- 
versely affects the national security, and it costs American workers 
their jobs. 

The last thing I want to address is the impact of this tax on our 
exports. Sir Walter Raleigh once observed that whoever com- 
manded the sea commanded the trade of the world and, hence, the 
world itself. Subpart F has cost American jobs and export opportu- 
nities in related industries as a result of our declining presence in 
world shipping. U.S. owned and controlled transportation compa- 
nies are much more likely to identify and promote export opportu- 
nities for both related and unrelated U.S. manufacturers and their 
employees. The fact of the matter is that if we act like isolationists 
on tax policy, it should be no surprise that the American public is 
going to turn isolationist on trade policy and reject further liberal- 
ization. 

Mr. Chairman, we live in the global marketplace with formidable 
challenges and opportunities. Americans, I believe, are prepared to 
embrace those challenges, provided Washington doesn't get in the 
way. We have seen too many Americans recently lose their job in 



142 


shipping and other important industries just because pooriy con- 
ceive tax poiicies inadvertentiy dictate that they wouid iose in this 
era of worldwide consoiidation. in this regard, i refer you to the 
compeiiing statement of Crowiey American Transport submitted to 
this Committee on J une 24, 1999. if we want to be competitive in 
worid commerce, we must start here in Washington. Tnank you, 
Mr. Chairman. 

[The prepared statement foiiows:] 

statement of Warren L. Dean,J r., Partner, Thompson Coburn LLP, and 
Representative, Subpart F Shipping Coalition 

Good morning, Chairman Archer and distinguished Members of the Committee. 
On behaif of the Subpart F Shipping Coaiition, I commend the Committee for exam- 
ining U.S. internationai tax policy and its impact on the competitiveness of the U.S. 
economy. The coalition appreciates the opportunity to appear before you today. 

The Subpart F Shipping Coalition is a group of U.S. -control led foreign-flag ship- 
ping companies that are adversely affected by U.S. international taxation policy. 
Our members include General Ore I nternational Corporation Limited, Seaboard Ma- 
rine (a wholly-owned subsidiary of Seaboard Corporation), and Tropical Shipping (a 
wholly-owned subsidiary of NICOR, Inc.). Our members support the Shaw-J efferson 
bill, FI.R. 265, which is pending before the Committee, and they are submitting 
statements on the record in support of that legislation. 

Mr. Chairman, I chair the Transportation Group at Thompson Coburn LLP and 
represent the interests of transportation companies engaged in foreign commerce. 
For the last ten years I have also been an Adjunct Professor of International Trans- 
portation Law in the Graduate Program of Georgetown University Law Center. I 
have taught and written extensively on the effects of U.S. tax and regulatory policy 
on the competitiveness of U.S. enterprise. My statement will, therefore, be general 
and policy-oriented. 

At the outset, let me clarify one very important point. Amending Subpart F to re- 
instate the deferral of foreign-base company shipping income will not adversely af- 
fect the competitive position of the remaining subsidized U.S. -flag shipping compa- 
nies that operate in our foreign commerce. I n fact, as reflected in written statements 
submitted to this Committee, it would substantially improve their ability to compete 
in foreign commerce, since they also operate foreign-flag vessels. 

In sum, if the United States wants a shipping industry of any kind— U .S. -flag or 
foreign-flag— then the application of Subpart F has got to go. It is just that simple. 

My testimony focuses on three key issues that are of great concern to U.S. ship- 
ping companies and U.S. manufacturers and exporters. First, I will discuss the im- 
pact of U.S. international tax policies on the competitiveness of the U.S. shipping 
industry. Next, I will describe how the shipping industry's worldwide consolidation 
has exacerbated this decline. And finally, my testimony will describe the impact 
that this decline in U.S. shipping capability is having on U.S. exports. 

Competitiveness of the U.S. Shipping Industry 

International shipping is a highly competitive industry. Foreign-flag operators 
that are relatively unburdened by direct or indirect national taxes determine its 
rate structure. Most maritime nations, including those in the European Union, have 
adopted tax policies that ensure that their operators are able to compete with ships 
operated under flags of convenience. The United States has taken no such action. 
Instead, in response to the liberalization of international shipping taxes by the 
world's great shipping nations, it has increased its taxes. As a result, the United 
States is no longer a major force in international shipping. 

Of course, the tax I am referring to is Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code, 
which imposes taxes on U.S. -owned businesses abroad as if th^ were operating in 
the United States. Before Subpart F was extended to shipping— it was extended par- 
tially in 1975 and fully in 1986— American citizens and corporations owned or con- 
trolled more than 25 percent of the world's fleet. Now that figure has slipped to less 
than 5 percent, and is falling fast. As U.S. -control led investment in shipping has 
declined, so have U.S. sealift capability and U.S. Treasury revenues from shipping. 
This anti-competitive tax regime has also reduced new ship acquisition by U.S. -con- 
trolled companies, and it has resulted in U.S. owners becoming minority partici- 
pants in vessels they once owned and operated. 



143 


The National Foreign Trade Council's recently completed study, titled 'The NFTC 
Foreign Income Project: International Tax Policy for the 21st Century," confirms 
these findings. The study showed that the U.S. -controlled foreign fleet cannot afford 
to compete effectively in the international market against trading partners that 
have adopted tax policies and incentives to support their international shipping in- 
dustries. 

Let me give you an example. Assume an American-controlled shipping company 
needs, for competitive purposes, to offer service between I ndonesia and J apan. U .S.- 
flag services by a U.S. corporation is not an option. The expense of flying crews back 
and forth alone would be prohibitive. Subpart F, the purpose of which is to prevent 
tax-motivated earnings through foreign corporations, reaches this transportation 
service and taxes it more onerously than it would tax U .S.-flag service— even though 
this transportation is not within any rational definition of U.S. commerce. There is 
no legitimate tax policy foundation for this absurd result. 

Sadly, the U.S. government has gained nothing from extending Subpart F to ship- 
ping income. While the tax imposed upon this industry was originally designed to 
generate revenues, it has cost the U.S. Treasury millions of dollars. Shipping indus- 
try tax revenues have decreased from approximately $90 million a year before 1975 
($250 million in today's dollars) to less than $50 million today. 

Worldwide Consolidation 

The marketplace for transportation services is increasingly global, as inter- 
national trade responds to the liberalization of commerce under new multilateral 
trade agreements. In response, the ocean shipping industry has been consolidating 
to take advantage of worldwide service networks. These actions are not unique to 
ocean shipping. The international airline industry is experiencing a comparable evo- 
lution. 

This worldwide consolidation is leaving the United States with significantly di- 
minished shipping capacity, due in large part to U.S. international tax policy. Take, 
for example, American President Lines, one of the premier U.S. -flag operators for 
nearly 150 years with terminal and transportation facilities on the West Coast that 
are extraordinarily valuable, both economically and militarily. It is also one of the 
major participants in the Maritime Security Program. American President Lines re- 
lies in part on its foreign-flag fleet to compete on a global basis. 

To survive in the increasingly competitive international markets, transportation 
enterprises like American President Lines must be able to expand their operations, 
often through combinations with other carriers. Assuming a suitable foreign-flag 
carrier can be identified, the only question then is the form of the merged entity, 
i.e, whether the U.S. carrier is the acquired or the acquiring company. That deci- 
sion should be a marketplace decision, even though there are national interests at 
stakein preserving U.S. control over subsidized U.S. -flag operators. 

Subpart F's application to the foreign-base company shipping income of companies 
like American President Lines ensures that the surviving company cannot be a U.S. 
taxpayer. If a foreign corporation acquires American President Lines and 
rationalizes its operations, none of its foreign-flag vessels will be subject to U .S. tax- 
ation. If American President Lines were to acquire a foreign company, on the other 
hand, all of the foreign-flag vessels of the combined enterprise would be subject to 
U.S. taxes. 

In fact, Neptune Orient Lines, a Singapore corporation, acquired American Presi- 
dent Lines. As a result, American President Lines' foreign-flag operations are effec- 
tively exempt from U.S. taxation. (Singapore does not tax the shipping income of 
its nationals, whether from Singaporean or non-Singaporean vessels.) The U.S. gov- 
ernment has lost in terms of both a potential dividend revenue base and the realiza- 
tion of its taxpayer-subsidized national security objectives. 

If our tax laws had been more competitive— meaning the United States had main- 
tained a policy to allow vessels to compete in the tax-free environment that deter- 
mines the rate structure for international shipping— American President Lines 
might have acquired Neptune Orient Lines instead. Examples like American Presi- 
dent Lines, or the acquisition of Lykes Steamship Co. by a Canadian corporation, 
demonstrate that Subpart F substantially harms the competitiveness of U.S. -owned 
foreign-flag shipping, fails to raise revenue to the U.S. Treasury, adversely affects 
U.S. national security, and costs American workers their jobs. 

U.S. Exports 

Sir Walter Raleigh once observed that whoever commanded the sea commanded 
the trade of the world and hence the world itself. More recently, Tom Clancy wrote 
a novel describing a world eventually dominated by a third-world nation that gained 



144 


control of ocean shipping. Simply put, our tax laws effectively prohibit Americans 
from owning and operating the shipping companies that carry the world's commerce. 
This means lost tax revenue, diminished presence in international markets, and an 
increased threat to the nation's economic security. 

Subpart F has cost Americans jobs and export opportunities in related industries 
as well. As the once significant U.S. -owned fleet expatriated to remain competitive, 
related industries, including insurance brokers, ship management companies, sur- 
veyors, ship brokers, technical consultants, and many others who provided services 
to the maritime industry, followed. Further, Subpart F's application to shipping ad- 
versely affects the export opportunities of U.S. enterprises. U.S. -owned and con- 
trolled transportation companies are much more likely to identify and promote ex- 
port opportunities for both related and unrelated U.S. manufacturers and their em- 
ployees. They are also more likely to offer jobs to American citizens, such as ships' 
officers, who are not already employed on U.S. -flag shipping. That's how real eco- 
nomic opportunities for Americans are developed and marketed in a global economy. 

If we act like isolationists on tax policy, it should be no surprise that the Amer- 
ican public may turn isolationist on trade policy by ejecting further liberalization 
of international trade. 


Conclusion 

The Subpart F Shipping Coalition urges the Committee to level the playing field 
so that U.S. -shipping companies can once again be viable competitors in the inter- 
national market. We encourage the Committee to approve FI.R. 265, sponsored by 
Congressmen Shaw and J efferson. It would restore the competitive opportunities for 
U.S. -control led foreign-flag corporations by excluding shipping income from Subpart 
F. Under the preposed legislation, taxes would be deferred, not exempted, and would 
eventually be paid into the U .S. Treasury when repatriated. 

Mr. Chairman, we live in a global marketplace, with formidable challenges and 
opportunities. Americans, I believe, are prepared to embrace those challenges— pro- 
vided Washington doesn't get in the way. We have seen too many Americans re- 
cently lose their jobs in shipping, and other important industries, just because poor- 
ly conceived tax policies inadvertently dictated that they would lose in this era of 
worldwide consolidation. In this regard, I refer you to the compelling statement of 
Crowley American Transport, Inc. submitted to this Committee on J une 24, 1999. 
If we want to be competitive in world commerce, we must start here in Washington. 

If Subpart F is not amended, companies like the ones I am representing today 
will eventually be forced out of business or driven into partnerships with foreign 
companies, having been weakened over the years by unnecessary tax obligations. 
We look forward to working with you and the Ways and Means Committee to ad- 
dress this important issue. 


Chairman Archer. Thank you, Mr. Dean. Mr. Houghton. 

Mr. Houghton. Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Yes, I 
would like to ask two or three different questions and whoever 
would like to respond, I would appreciate that. If you were to take 
a look— and you probably have been here through some of the other 
testimony— at all the testimonies that have been given, concen- 
trating on various aspects of the tax law, what is the number one 
change you would make in the United States international tax 
laws? If you could pick one thing? 

Mr. Laitinen. Well, I have, obviously, testified on the interest al- 
location rule and I think that is one of the most egregious exam- 
ples. 

Mr. Houghton. It is important, but is it the most important? 

Mr. Laitinen. Yes, sir. I believe so. 

Mr. Houghton. You are a good advocate for your cause. Does 
anybody else have a comment? 

Mr. Conway. Mr. Houghton, I would like to suggest that I think 
the most important change would be if we looked at an alternative. 



145 


maybe a territorial system. I think the foreign tax credit system 
that we put in place when we enacted the income tax system was 
designed to be a de facto territorial system. We pay tax in the 
United States and we pay tax outside the United States, but we 
get a full credit when we brought the money back and we were 
taxed. And I think what has happened is over the past 25 years 
since I have been involved in taxes, we have chipped away at that 
foreign tax credit system and introduced tremendous complexities. 

So I think the most important change we could make is to really 
reconsider what kind of a system we want to have. Half of the 
OECD member countries have territorial systems, and I think we 
ought to look at that alternative. So I think that would be the most 
important change. 

Mr. Houghton. Well, now, Mr. Chip, didn't you— I wasn't here 
for your testimony, but I read it. Didn't you talk a little bit about 
that in terms of the European Union as one basket? 

Mr. Chip. Yes, sir. I would have to agree, though, with my col- 
league from General Motors. If you ask^ the business community 
at large the one thing, assuming we kept our basic system, that 
they find the most unconstructive are the interest allocation rules. 
Although I would say that for those companies that operate in Eu- 
rope— and I think any company that wants to be a global business 
nowadays has to have a strong European presence— being able to 
treat the European Union as a single country so that it would be 
possible to incorporate your business in one of those countries and 
not be treated as engaged in tax haven operations simply because 
you then had activities in other parts of the European Union would 
be very important. 

But all of these problems— and I have to agree with what was 
said before— all of these issues would go away if we had a terri- 
torial tax system that accepted that the country where the business 
actually is conducted should have the only right to tax that busi- 
ness income to pay for business infrastructure and the United 
States should tax the income only when it is distributed to U.S. in- 
dividual shareholders to pay for the things that they need in the 
country where they reside. 

Short of moving to a territorial system, which is really the an- 
swer, I would have to agree that the interest allocation rules are 
probably the biggest problem for U.S. business, but I would put the 
problems we have rationalizing our business in the European 
Union as a close second. 

Mr. Dean. Congressman. 

Mr. Houghton. Yes. 

Mr. Dean. Congressman, I would like to add one thing. The prob- 
lems we are discussing are all symptomatic of a broader problem. 
The Tax Code is being gamed in the application of these rules to 
collect revenue in circumstances where it is simply not appropriate. 
We have to take a fundamentally careful look at the way we apply 
these rules to make sure that enterprises are not punished solely 
because they are owned and controlled by our own citizens. It is a 
truly pathetic irony that we are in a situation now where American 
owned enterprises are being punished by their own government 
precisely because of the nationality of their ownership. 



146 


That is the case of Subpart F. That is the case of the interest 
allocation expense. And it is the case of the foreign tax credit as 
well. 

Mr. Houghton. Well, I think it is very helpful to be able to lis- 
ten to people like yourselves because I have a feeling that business 
is far ahead of government in this respect. In the old days, busi- 
nesses used to have export agreements, licensing agreements; what 
was made overseas was for them and what was made here was for 
us. And, of course, that is absolutely out now. And we obviously 
have got to bring up our tax laws to recognize that. 

Now let me just ask you one other question. Mr. Levin and I 
have proposed a tax simplification bill. Are there any other 
issues— I don't know if you have seen this— are there any other 
issues we should get into that we haven't touched on? Not that we 
can put them in now, but thinking ahead for another session? 

Mr. Chip. As some of the other witnesses have said, in addition 
to studying some of these micro issues, I would hope that Congress 
would give serious consideration to studying moving to a fully terri- 
torial system. Short of moving to a pure sales tax system, which 
probably would be more competitive than our competitors since 
they have income tax systems, would at least give us the most com- 
petitive income tax system possible. 

Most of our competitors come much closer to the most competi- 
tive income tax system that you can have if you are going to have 
that kind of system. And I think it would be worthwhile for— but 
it is not something that you can do very simply. And I would be 
fooling you if I pretended that it is. Among other things, you have 
to get into the issue of the double taxation of shareholders. When 
we distribute corporate income to shareholders, they don't get a 
credit for the taxes paid by the company. Most of our competitors— 
at least, a lot of our competitors— do have an integrated tax sys- 
tem. 

So you can't really isolate even the international area. You have 
to look very deeply into the system, and I think that now is as good 
a time to get started as any. 

Mr. Mogenson. I think that what you are hearing is various 
themes all of which kind of come back to a similar concept which 
is give the freedom for U.S. multinationals to compete on a foreign 
marketplace, you know, on equal footing with the competitors that 
are not United States based. The notion that the U.S. rules should 
extend globally is what is causing the handicap. 

I can tell you that I sit daily and deal with transactions which 
are entirely foreign-to-foreign transactions that are being proposed 
or conducted by our foreign affiliates and need to overlay the U.S. 
rules on top of that, whereas a similarly situated foreign bank or 
foreign securities firm merely has to focus on what are the U.K. 
rules or what are the German rules in that particular situation. 
And I come back to the common theme of saying let the foreign 
transactions or foreign business opportunities stand in that mar- 
ketplace and don't extend the U.S. rules into there, whether it be 
compliance or substantive. 

Mr. Houghton. Well, thanks very much. Thank you, Mr. Chair- 
man. 



147 


Mr. Hamod. Congressman, if I may be an advocate for Section 
911 very briefly. I don't believe it is in the bill now, but we hope 
you will give it serious consideration. One of the things that im- 
presses me most about Section 911 is its remarkable versatility. It 
helps large companies, it helps small companies. It helps big wage 
earners, it helps small wage earners. It helps in high-tax nations, 
it helps in low-tax nations. In fact, as far as we can tell, the only 
folks it doesn't help is the competition, and that's the way it should 
be. Thank you. 

Chairman Archer. Amo, you have asked some very excellent 
questions and it has piqued my interest to follow up a little bit. 

What, if we went to a purely territorial system, would you rec- 
ommend as the best way to implement that? Simply not to tax 
foreign-source income or find a way to give a tax credit for foreign- 
source income? 

Mr. Conway. Mr. Chairman, I think we really should seriously 
look at a system which would exempt foreign income from tax. We 
operate in 180 countries and if you read our annual report, you will 
see that we pay a lot of taxes both in the United States and outside 
the United States. The minute that you have a foreign tax credit 
system, it introduces tremendous complication. Every time we go to 
make an acquisition and we compete for acquisitions with non-U .S. 
companies, we find ourselves doing an analysis and coming out on 
the short end of the stick because of these rules. 

We have learned in business that the best way to simplify a proc- 
ess is, many times, to eliminate a process. If we can, we should 
eliminate the foreign tax credit system. Our main goal is to in- 
crease our net income. If our taxes go up, that is OK. We don't 
mind paying taxes as long as our profits go up at the same time. 
So I think the point is that American companies would be in a 
much more competitive position. We would still be paying taxes. 
And, in the end, I think we would wind up winning the global com- 
petition. 

Chairman Archer. With all of the capabilities today and with 
the enormous intricate interrelationship between companies oper- 
ating all over the world would there not be some opening for gam- 
ing of the system so that you would be able to transfer your domes- 
tic income to become foreign income to where it would not be 
taxed? Depending again upon the level of taxation in the country 
in which you were operating, would not transfer pricing methods 
and other methods, be an attractive nuisance to encourage a gam- 
ing of the system? 

Mr. Conway. I think there would be issues, but I think, given 
the sophistication in technology and information, we ought to take 
a serious look at a territorial system. I think those issues could be 
addressed just by defining the source rules and could be dealt with 
that way. What we find in our businesses is that we are generating 
income where the customers are. And I gave the example of the 
Otis Elevator Co. We have to operate where the elevators are in 
order to earn the income. And it is pretty clear what the source of 
income is in that case. When we are manufacturing and selling, 
then, you know, there are some issues because we cross borders 
with an export sale. 



148 


But I think it would be worthwhile to seriously study those 
issues. I think we would be far ahead in trying to craft some rea- 
sonable rules. There will always be people who will game the rules. 
But I think we could craft rules that could cover the vast majority 
of companies, and I don't think we would necessarily jeopardize our 
revenue base. 

Mr. Chip. Mr. Chairman, those transfer pricing issues you al- 
luded to are present in the current system because we still allow 
a certain amount of deferral of foreign income and there is an ad- 
vantage to a U.S. company today to try to allocate as much income 
as possible to its lowest taxed subsidiaries. For that matter, that 
problem would exist in a sales tax system. And a concern about 
that, I think, was one of the main reasons subpart F was enacted 
in the first place and, indeed, it is one the main reasons for not 
having a territorial system. 

But I think we need to take account that the Congress has 
amended the Internal Revenue Code to provide the Internal Rev- 
enue Service with very powerful tools in the transfer pricing area, 
including very severe penalties for transfer pricing violations. And 
most of our competitor countries have followed our lead in that 
area so that the likelihood that a large company could successfully 
achieve an irrational shifting of large amounts of income, even 
under the current system let alone under an exemption system, is 
not nearly as severe as perhaps it may have been perceived to be 
30 years ago and should not really stand in the way of moving to 
any other system, because the problem will exist under all systems. 
It is not limited to any one system. 

Mr. Mogenson. That is right, Mr. Chairman. When you con- 
template a new system, you are correct that you would have to 
craft rules that would maintain the integrity of the U.S. tax base 
and the U.S. income that is earned here. That means that you 
would have to accurately define foreign-source income that is going 
to be exempted as under a territorial system and you must define 
the deductions or the expenses that relate to the income that you 
are not taxing. 

Flowever, following up on the transfer pricing point, at least you 
would deal with transfer pricing in a very detailed way when the 
United States is one side of the transaction where it is in or out 
of the United States, but you have taken off the table the mul- 
titude of foreign-to-foreign transactions as far as applying the U.S. 
rules to them. 

Chairman Archer. Well, I can see that there would still be com- 
plexities with the IRS requiring an awful lot of compliance types 
of administrative red tape for you to be sure that, quote, we are 
not in some way taking domestic income and putting it into foreign 
income through all of the various methods that would be possible 
to a clever individual who knows how to work the intricacies and 
the sophistication that is available today. I do wonder why you say 
the sales tax would bring the same thing, because in the sales tax, 
you would have no recordkeeping for income whatsoever. 

Mr. Chip. Well, you do have the issue of inputs coming into the 
United States and items going out. 



149 


Chairman Archer. Now if you just had a retaii saies tax, you 
wouid not have any question of input coming into the United 
States. 

Mr. Chip. Weii, not if you are thinking of a Customs system 
where you apportion the tax depending on the vaiue-added or the 
vaiue of the product. There wiii aiways be a question of what the 
reai vaiue is when it is being passed from a reiated to an unreiated 
person. 

Chairman Archer. Not with a retaii saies tax, Mr. Chip. With 
a retaii saies tax it wouid be aii coiiected at the point of saie irre- 
spective of how much came into the country through imports or 
how much was domesticaiiy produced. There wouid be no records 
for an income tax that wouid have to be kept. Transfer pricing or 
any other manipuiation through some sophisticated system of 
interreiationship between two different countries wouid not be 
questioned. You eiiminate aii of that. 

Mr. Chip. Yes, Mr. Chairman, a pureiy retaii saies tax that ap- 
piied exciusiveiy to transactions between businesses and unreiat^ 
customers wouid, you are correct, not have those probiems. 

Chairman Archer. Weii, i just wanted to make that dear, be- 
cause you said you wouid have the same probiem with the saies tax 
but you wouid not have the same probiem in a saies tax. 

Mr. Chip. Many of the aiternatives to the income tax system that 
have been considered, inciuding vaiue-added taxes and other taxes 
do have those probiems, but, i agree that a pureiy retaii saies 
wouid not have that probiem. 

Chairman Archer. OK. Because your statement was even with 
the saies tax, you wouid have the same probiem and that is not ac- 
curate reiative to a retaii saie tax. 

Mr. Chip. Not a retaii saies tax. 

Chairman Archer. OK. OK. Aii right. Weii, i hope i iive iong 
enough to where we can see an eii mi nation of aii the extra com- 
piexities that an income tax inevitabiy seems to put on us. The sad 
thing about an income tax is that we can taik about how we are 
going to simpiify it, but i have been through many efforts to sim- 
piify the income tax and each time we attempt to simpiify it, we 
make it more compiex. 

1986 was the great simpiification Act, and we added many new 
compiexities that were not present prior to 1986. in fact, i was sit- 
ting right here at the time of the debate on the 1986 Act and my 
friend j immy Baker, who was then Secretary of the Treasury, who 
i grew up with in Houston was testifying. He was presenting 
Treasury ii, which was a 500-page summary of their proposai for 
tax reform, entitied Fairness, Growth, and Simpiicity. 

i had scanned through it the night before, which was the oniy 
time we had avaiiabie. i came to the foreign-source income provi- 
sion section and read with increduiity what was in their own sum- 
mary. in their own summary, it said the current system is ex- 
tremeiy compiex and very difficuit to administer and our proposai 
wiii make it more compiex. i read that to him and i said now can 
you entitie this Fairness, Growth, and Simpiicity and he smiied 
and said that is why we put simpiicity third in the order of things. 
[Laughter.] 

Then the Congress made it worse. 



150 


So I have about lost confidence that we can simplify the income 
tax. We will get into that at another time. 

Are there any other questions? Mr. Portman. 

Mr. Portman. Mr. Chairman, that is a perfect segue because, as 
you know, it was the 1986 Act that you looked at that made these 
interest allocation rules so complicated and it really puts us here. 

Chairman Archer. By the way, I ended up leading the opposi- 
tion to that bill, I want all of you to know. I am on record. 

Mr. Portman. Yes. But I also would say that even eliminating 
the corporate income tax and instituting a business sales tax, 
which could be called a VAT tax, whether it is subtraction or a 
credit method, would avoid many of these problems of allocation of 
income. It would create new problems, but I would venture to say 
they would not be nearly as complex for you all and ultimately for 
the American consumer as the current income tax system. 

But let me get back to reality for a second to what we might be 
able to do in the short-term on interest allocation. The Houghton- 
Levin bill, I think, is wonderful and Mr. Houghton and Mr. Levin 
are to be commended for rolling up their sleeves and getting into 
this international area at all. It is an area only less attractive to 
most members than the pension laws that we are trying to get into 
as well. But they deserve a lot of credit. They have a study, as you 
know, on the interest allocation rules. And then there is this addi- 
tional legislation that I just dropped in recently with Mr. Matsui 
that tries to get at some of the points that were raised both in this 
panel and in the previous panel on interest allocation. 

And I just have a couple of follow-up questions to see whether 
we can maybe better identify some of the problems. And then, per- 
haps, talk about ways in which that legislation could be alterea to 
make it more broadly applicable to some of the companies includ- 
ing, I listened to Mr. Green's testimony earlier, to UtiliCorp. He 
had some concerns, I think, about applicability to some companies, 
perhaps focusing on the 80 percent rule. Maybe lowering that 80 
percent to some smaller percentage. 

But if I could start with asking you, Mr. Laitinen, about your 
question regarding U.S. investment. You basically said that the 
home team is disadvantaged even on the home court, in so many 
words. And if you could follow through on that a little bit and ex- 
plain why, for instance, a foreign car manufacturer, as compared 
to a GM, would be at an advantage. 

And I guess this relates also to the fact that all of your competi- 
tors probably live under a different tax system. So we know with 
some certainty how they are going to be taxed, which would be on 
the U.S. system, to the extent they are investing in the United 
States. Whereas our tax system would have interest allocated that 
is U.S. domestic interest allocated to foreign sources and therefore 
would put us at a disadvantage. Could you explain that? 

Mr. Laitinen. Well, basically, interest on U.S. debt incurred by 
a U.S. multinational to invest in the United States is subject to 
these interest allocation rules, whereas a foreign-based company 
with a subsidiary in the United States that borrows funds here to 
make a similar investment in the United States is not subject to 
those rules because that U.S. subsidiary of the foreign company is 
not going to have foreign assets to allocate interest to. 



151 


An example, if I could give one, would be in the late 1980s, when 
GM borrowed funds in the United States to build a Saturn Cor- 
poration plant in Spring Hill, Tennessee. And a portion of the in- 
terest expense on the debt was allocated to foreign-source income 
and, in effect, a current deduction was lost for part of that interest 
expense. But, by way of contrast, about the same time, Nissan built 
a plant down the road in Smyrna, Tennessee. As a foreign-based 
competitor, they weren't subject to the interest allocation rules on 
any borrowings they might have had for that plant. That is the 
type of thing that can happen again. 

Mr. PoRTMAN. So they got the full deduction on their interest 
that they borrowed for their expansion, whereas GM did not be- 
cause some of that was allocated to foreign-source. 

Mr. Laitinen. Right. I use that as an example. I don't know their 
actual facts as to their borrowings and so on, but 

Mr. PoRTMAN. Yes. Well, you don't know about their borrowings, 
necessarily, but we do know enough about the tax system in J apan 
or in Germany or in any of the other EU countries to know with 
some certainty that they would have been subject to a different set 
of rules. 

Mr. Laitinen. Right, but, in effect, the U.S. -based multinational 
investing in the United States is at a competitive disadvantage. 
That is why I was saying that it is not a level playing field, even 
in our home turf. 

Mr. PORTMAN. Right. The other question I have which I raised 
a second ago was do you all have any thoughts as to how the legis- 
lation that we introduced, H.R. 2270, might be altered to make it 
more applicable to more companies? I mentioned the percentage of 
foreign ownership, for instance. Any thoughts of any of the panel- 
ists? Mr. Laitinen, anybody? 

Mr. Laitinen. Well, the percentage of affiliation is 80 percent in 
your bill and it could be lowered to 50 percent. The CFG rule, for 
example, could be used for what foreign affiliates you take into ac- 
count. I mean, that would be a way of broadening it. Also, there 
is a subgroup rule in the bill which we think is important. Under 
your bill, as I understand it, a company could elect to stay in the 
current law or elect worldwide fungibility with the subgroup elec- 
tion also. If that subgroup election were made available under cur- 
rent law, again, it would provide some additional flexibility. 

I mean, there are ways to broaden the bill slightly and still 
maintain the two important points of worldwide fungibility and 
subgroup elections, which are, as you know, the key points in your 
bill. 

Mr. PORTMAN. Well, again, we appreciate your help and giving 
us advice on that. I will say that any change, obviously, has an im- 
pact on revenue. At least those two changes you mentioned would, 

I believe, raise an issue as to the revenue impact. But I think we 
have made some progress through Mr. Houghton's legislation and 
if we can get some interest allocation relief as well, it seems to me 
from what we have heard today, that will be a major help to U.S. 
companies trying to compete worldwide. Thank you, Mr. Chairman. 

Chairman Archer. I am constrained to ask whether there is any 
coalition of overseas companies that has been put together to try 
to determine the best way to do the interest allocation change. I 



152 


understand that different businesses are affected differently, based 
on how we make the change. The 1986 Senate proposal, for exam- 
ple, does not help a lot of businesses. I wonder if there has been 
any effort to get the business community together to make a rec- 
ommendation. I see Mr. Murray raising his hand in the audience 
out there. [Laughter.] 

Mr. PoRTMAN. National Foreign Tax Council. 

Chairman Archer. Well, we would appreciate the input of any 
one with practical experience on how we to make the best possible 
choice to remove this barrier to our competitiveness overseas. I 
think Mr. Portman's questions were very well-taken. 

Let me quickly ask you this and then excuse you and move on. 
If we were to get a pure territorial system, would most of the re- 
search that your corporations do be brought back to the United 
States? There would be no incentive to do it overseas if you are not. 
By reducing your foreign-source income, you would not be helping 
yourself in your bottom line net. However, if you brought it here 
and you talce a deduction against your domestic income, then it 
seems to me it would be very attractive for you to start bringing 
your research activities, whatever they might be, back to the 
United States of America. Am I correct in that? 

Mr. Conway. Mr. Chairman, I think you are correct. If you are 
potentially adversely impacted by the foreign tax credit rules in the 
R&D allocation, it absolutely would make sense to move the R&D 
back because, you know, it would absolutely neutral from a tax 
standpoint and, quite frankly, I think for most companies, most of 
the R&D is done in the United States anyway. This is where the 
technology base is and to the extent that we not only get a deduc- 
tion, but we get an R&D credit here as well, which has been ex- 
tended— in fact, it has been approved with the alternative research 
credit— more and more countries are enacting R&D incentives. 

There are now 16 major countries which have R&D incentives. 
So I think a territorial system would provide an incentive to do 
more R&D here. 

Chairman Archer. OK. Thank you very much. Are there any 
other questions by members? Thank you very much. Your input 
has been very helpful to us. The Committee will be adjourned. 

[Whereupon, at 2:42 p.m., the hearing was adjourned.] 

[Submissions for the record to follow:] 

statement of LaBrenda Garrett-Nelson, Ad Hoc Coalition of Finance and 
Credit Companies, and Washington Counsel, P.C. 

Both H.R. 681 (introduced by Reps. McCrery and Neal) and Section 101 of the 
International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act of 1999 (H.R. 
2018, introduced by Reps. Houghton and Levin) highlight the need to extend the 
provision that grants active financial services companies an exception from subpart 
F. In light of the growing interdependence and integration of world financial mar- 
kets, coupled with the international expansion of U.S. -based financial services enti- 
ties, the foreign activities of the financial services industry should be eligible for de- 
ferral on terms comparable to that of manufacturing and other non-financial busi- 
nesses. This statement was prepared on behalf of an ad hoc coalition of leading fi- 
nance and credit companies whose activities fall within the catch-all concept of a 
"financing or similar business." 

The ad hoc coalition of finance and credit companies includes entities providing 
a full range of financing, leasing, and credit services to consumers and other unre- 
lated businesses, including the financing of third-party purchases of products manu- 
factured by affiliates (collectively referred to as "Finance and Credit Companies"). 
This statement describes (1) the ordinary business transactions conducted by Fi- 



153 


nance and Credit Companies, inciuding information regarding the unique roie these 
companies piay in expanding U.S. internationai trade, and (2) the importance of the 
active financing exception to subpart F to the internationai competitiveness of these 
companies. 

I. The International Operations of U.S. -Based Finance and Credit Companies 

A. Finance and Credit Companies Conduct Active Finandai Services Businesses. 

Finance and Credit Companies are finandai intermediaries that borrow to engage 

in aii the activities in which banks customariiy engage when issuing and servicing 
a ioan or entering into other finandai transactions. Indeed, many countries (eg., 
Germany, Austria, and France) actuaiiy require that such a company be chartered 
as a reguiated bank. For exampie, one member of the ad hoc group has a European 
Finance and Credit Company that is reguiated by the Bank of Engiand and, under 
the European Union ("EU") Second Banking Coordination Directive, operates in 
branch form in Austria, France, and a number of other EU jurisdictions. The prin- 
cipai difference between a typicai bank and a Finance and Credit Company is that 
banks normaiiy borrow through retaii or other forms of reguiated deposits, whiie Fi- 
nance and Credit Companies borrow from the pubiic market through commerdai 
paper or other pubiidy issued debt instruments. In some cases. Finance and Credit 
Companies operating as reguiated banks are required to take deposits, aithough 
they may not rely on such deposits as a primary source of funding. In every impor- 
tant respect. Finance and Credit Companies compete directiy with banks to provide 
ioan and i ease financing to retaii and whoiesaie consumers. 

B. A Finance and Credit Company's Activities inciude A Fuii Range Of Finandai 
Services. 

The active finandai services income derived by a Finance and Credit Company 
inciudes income from financing purchases from third parties; making personai, 
mortgage, industriai or other ioans; factoring: providing credit card services; and 
hedging interest rate and currency risks with respect to active finandai services in- 
come. As an aiternative to traditionai iending, ieasing has deveioped into a common 
means of financing acquisitions of fixed assets, and is growing at doubie digit rates 
in internationai markets. These activities inciude a fuii range of finandai services 
across a broad customer base and can be summarized as foiiows: 

• Speciaiized Financing— Loans and ieases for major capitai assets, inciuding air- 
craft, industriai fadiities and equipment and ener^-reiated fadiities; commerdai 
and residentiai reai estate ioans and investments: loans to and investments in man- 
agement buyouts and corporate recapitalizations. 

• Consumer Services— Private label and bank credit card loans; merchant acquisi- 
tion, card issuance, and financing of card receivables: time sales and revolving credit 
and inventory financing for retail merchants: auto leasing and lending and inven- 
tory financing: and mortgage servicing. 

• Equipment Management— Leases, loans and asset management services for 
portfolios of commercial and transportation equipment, including aircraft, trailers, 
auto fleets, modular space units, railroad rolling stock, data processing equipment, 
telecommunications equipment, ocean-going containers, and satellites. 

• Mid-Market Financing— Loans and financing and operating leases for middle- 
market customers, including manufacturers, vendors, distributors, and end-users, 
for a variety of equipment, such as computers, data processing equipment, medical 
and diagnostic equipment, and equipment used in construction, manufacturing, of- 
fice applications, and telecommunications activities. 

Each of the financial services described above is widely and routinely offered by 
foreign-owned finance companies in direct competition with Finance and Credit 
Companies. 

C. Finance and Credit Companies Are Located In The Major Markets In Which They 
Conduct Business And Ccmpdte Head-on Against "Name Brand" Local Competitcrs. 

Finance and Credit Companies provide services to foreign customers or U.S. cus- 
tomers conducting business in foreign markets. The customer base for Finance and 
Credit Companies is widely dispersed; indeed, a large Finance and Credit Company 
may have a single customer that itself operates in numerous jurisdictions. As ex- 
plained more fully below, rather than operating out of regional, financial centers 
(such as London or Flong Kong), Finance and Credit Companies must operate in a 
large number of countries to compete effectively for international business and pro- 
vide local financing support for foreign offices of U.S. multinational vendors. One 
Finance and Credit Company affiliated with a U.S auto maker, for example, provide 
services to customers in Australia, India, Korea, Germany, the U.K., France, Italy, 



154 


Belgium, China, Japan, Indonesia, Mexico, and Brazil, among other countries. An- 
other member of the ad hoc coalition conducts business through Finance and Credit 
Companies in virtually all the major European countries, in addition to maintaining 
headquarters in Flong Kong, Europe, India, J apan, and Mexico. Yet another member 
of the ad hoc coalition currently has offices that provide local leasing and financing 
products in 22 countries. 

Finance and Credit Companies are legally established, capitalized, operated, and 
managed locally, as either branches or separate entities, for the business, regu- 
latory, and legal reasons outlined below: 

1. Marketing and supervising loans and leasee generally require a local presence 
The provision of financial services to foreign consumers requires a Finance and 
Credit Company to have a substantial local presence— to establish and maintain a 
"brand name," develop a marketing network, and provide pre-market and after-mar- 
ket services to customers. A Finance and Credit Company must be close to its cus- 
tomers to keep abreast of local business conditions and competitive practices. Fi- 
nance and Credit Companies analyze the creditworthiness of potential customers, 
administer and collect loans, process payments, and borrow money to fund loans. 
Inevitably, some customers have trouble meeting obligations. Such cases demand a 
local presence to work with customers to ensure payment and, where necessary, to 
terminate the contract and repossess the asset securing the obligation. These active 
functions require local employees to insure the proper execution of the Finance and 
Credit Company's core business activities— indeed, a single member of the ad hoc 
group has approximately 15,000 employees in Europe. From a business perspective, 
it would be almost impossible to perform these functions outside a country of oper- 
ation and still generate a reasonable return on the investment. "Paper companies" 
acting through computer networks would not serve these local business require- 
ments. 

In certain cases, a business operation and the employees whose efforts support 
that operation may be in separate, same-country affiliates for local business or regu- 
latory reasons. For example, in some Latin American jurisdictions where profit 
sharing is mandatory, servicing operations and financing operations may be con- 
ducted through separate entities. Even in these situations, the active businesses of 
the Finance and Credit Companies are conducted by local employees. 

2. Like other financial services entities, a Finance and Credit Company requires 
access to the debt markets to finance its lending activities, and borrowing in local 
markets often affords a lower cost of funds. Small Finance and Credit Companies, 
in particular, may borrow a substantial percentage of their funding requirements 
from local banks. Funding in a local currency reduces the risk of economic loss due 
to exchange rate fluctuations, and often mitigates the imposition of foreign with- 
holding taxes on interest paid across borders. Alternatively, a Finance and Credit 
Company may access a capital market in a third foreign country, because of limited 
available capital in the local market— Australian dollar borrowings are often done 
outside Australia for this reason. The latter mode of borrowing might also be used 
in a country whose government is running a large deficit, thus "soaking up" avail- 
able local investment. A Finance and Credit Company may also rely for funding on 
its U.S. parent company, which issues debt and on-lends to affiliates (with hedging 
to address foreign exchange risks). 

3. In many cases, consumer protection laws require a local presence. Finance and 
Credit Companies must have access to credit records that are maintained locally. 
Many countries, however, prohibit the transmission of consumer lending informa- 
tion across national borders. Additionally, under "door-step selling directives," other 
countries preclude direct marketing of loans unless the lender has a legal presence. 

4. Banking or currency regulations may also dictate a local presence Finance and 
Credit Companies must have the ability to process local payments and— where nec- 
essary-take appropriate action to collect a loan or repossess collateral. Foreign reg- 
ulation or laws regarding secured transactions often require U.S. companies to con- 
duct business through local companies with an active presence. For example, as 
noted above, French law generally compels entities extending credit to conduct their 
operations through a regulated "banque" approved by the French central bank. 
Other jurisdictions, such as Spain and Portugal, require retail lending to be per- 
formed by a regulated entity that need not be a full-fledged bank. In addition, var- 
ious central banks preclude movements of their local currencies across borders. In 
such cases, a Finance and Credit Company's local presence (in the form of either 
a branch or a separate entity) is necessary for the execution of its core activities 
of lending, collecting, and funding. 

EU directives allow a regulated bank headquartered in one EU jurisdiction to 
have branch offices in another EU jurisdiction, with the "home" country exercising 
the majority of the bank regulation. Thus, for example, one Finance and Credit 



155 


Company in Europe operates in branch form, engaging in cross-jurisdictionai busi- 
ness in the economicaiiy integrated countries that comprise the EU. The purpose 
of this branch structure is to consoiidate European assets into one corporation to 
achieve increased borrowing power within the EU, as weii as iimit the number of 
governmentai agencies with primary reguiatory authority over the business. 

D. Finance and Credit Companies Piay A Critical Role In Supporting I nternational 
T rade Opportuni ties 

As U.S. manufacturers and distributors expand their saies activities and oper- 
ations around the worid, it is criticai that U.S. tax poiicy be coordinated with U.S. 
trade objectives, to aiiow U.S. companies to operate on a ievei piaying fieid with 
their foreign competitors. One of the important toois avaiiabie to U.S. manufactur- 
ers and distributors in seeking to expand foreign saies is the support of Finance and 
Credit Companies providing internationai ieasing and financing services. U.S. tax 
poiicy shouid not hamper efforts to provide financing support for product saies. 

U.S. manufacturers, in particuiar, inciude the avaiiabiiity of financing services of- 
fered by Finance and Credit Companies as an integrai component of the manufac- 
turer's saies promotion in foreign markets. For related manufacturing or other busi- 
nesses to compete effectively. Finance and Credit Companies establish local country 
financial operations to support the business. As an example, the Finance and Credit 
Company affiliate of a U.S. auto maker establishes its operations where the parent 
company's sales operations are located, in order to provide marketing support. 

In supporting the international sales growth of U.S. manufacturers and distribu- 
tors in developed markets. Finance and Credit Companies are themselves forced 
into competition with foreign-owned companies offering the same or similar leasing 
and financing services. To the extent Finance and Credit Companies are competi- 
tively disadvantaged by U.S. tax policy, U.S. manufacturers and distributors either 
are prevented from competing with their counterparts or must seek leasing and fi- 
nancing support from foreign-owned companies operating outside the United States. 

II. The Need to Continue the Subpart F Exception for Active 
Financing Income 


A. Legislative Background 

When deferral for active financial services income was repealed in 1986, the Con- 
gress was concerned about the potential for abuse by taxpayers routing passive or 
mobile income through tax havens. At that time, the U.S. financial services industry 
was almost entirely domestic, and so little thought was given to the appropriateness 
of applying the 1986 Act provisions to income earned by the conduct of an active 
business. The subsequent international expansion of the U.S. financial services in- 
dustry created a need to modernize Subpart F by enacting corrective legislation. 

The Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 introduced a temporary (one-year) Subpart F ex- 
ception for active financing income, and 1998 legislation revised and extended this 
provision for an additional year. The financial services industry continues to seek 
a more permanent Subpart F exception for active financing income. 

But for the Active financing exception, current law would discriminate against the 
U.S. financial services industry by imposing a current U.S. tax on interest, rentals, 
dividends etc., derived in the conduct of an active trade or business through a con- 
trolled foreign corporation. From a tax policy perspective, a financial services busi- 
ness should be eligible for the same U.S. tax treatment of worldwide income as that 
of manufacturing and other non-financial businesses. 

B. The Active Financing Exception is Necessary To Allow U.S. Financial Services 
Companies To Compete Effectively I n Foreign Markus 

U.S. financial services entities engaged in business in a foreign country would be 
disadvantaged if the active financing exception were allowed to expire (and the 
United States thereby accelerated the taxation of their active financing income). 

To take a simplified example, consider a case where a Finance and Credit Com- 
pany establishes a U.K. subsidiary to compete for business in London. London is a 
major financial center, and U.S. -based companies compete not only against U.K. 
companies but also against financial services entities from other countries. For ex- 
ample, Deutsche Bank is a German financial institution that competes against U.S. 
Finance and Credit Companies. Like many other countries in which the parent com- 
panies of major financial institutions are organized, Germany generally refrains 
from taxing the active financing income earned by its foreign subsidiaries. Thus, a 
Deutsche Bank subsidiary established in London defers the German tax on its U.K. 
earnings, paying tax on a current basis only to the U.K. 



156 


The application of Subpart F to the facts of the above example would place the 
U.S. company at a significant competitive disadvantage in any third country having 
a lower effective tax rate (or a narrower current tax base) than the United States 
(because the U .S. company would pay a residual U.S. tax in addition to the foreign 
income tax). The acceleration of U.S. tax under Subpart F would run counter to that 
of many other industrialized countries, including France, Germany, the United 
Kingdom, and J apan.i All four of these countries, for example, impose current tax- 
ation on foreign-source financial services income only when that income is earned 
in tax haven countries with unusually low rates of tax. 

In view of the relatively low profit margins in the international financing mar- 
kets, tax costs might have to be passed on to customers in the form of higher financ- 
ing rates. Obviously, foreign customers could avoid higher financing costs by obtain- 
ing financing from a foreign-control led finance company that is not burdened by cur- 
rent home-country taxation, or— in the case of Finance and Credit Companies fi- 
nancing third-party purchases of an affiliate's product— purchasing the product from 
a foreign manufacturer offering a lower all-in cost. The active financing exception 
advances international competitiveness by insuring that financial services compa- 
nies are taxed in a manner that is consistent with their foreign competitors— con- 
sistent with the legislative history of Subpart F and the long-standing tax policy 
goal of striking a reasonable balance that preserves the ability of U.S. businesses 
to compete abroad. 

III. The Definition of a Finance Company Under the Active Financing Excep- 
tion TO Subpart F was Carefully Crafted to Limit Application of the Ex- 
ception TO Bona Fide Businesses 

The 1998 legislation introduced a statutory definition of a "lending or finance 
business" for purposes of the active financing exception to subpart F. A lending or 
finance business is defined to include very specific activities: 

(i) making loans: 

(ii) purchasing or discounting accounts receivable, notes, or installment obli- 
gations: 

(iii) engaging in leasing: 

(iv) issuing letters of credit or providing guarantees: 

(v) providing charge or credit services: or 

(vi) rendering related services to an affiliated corporation that is so engaged. 

A. A Finance Company Must Satisfy a Two-pronged Test to be Eligible to Qualify 
any Income for the Active Financing Exception. 

1. Predominantly Engaged Test.— Under a rule that applies to all financial serv- 
ices companies, a finance company must first satisfy the r^uirement that it be "pre- 
dominantly engaged" in a banking, financing, or similar business. To satisfy the 
"predominantly engaged" test, a finance company must derive more than 70 percent 
of its gross income from the active and regular conduct of a lending or finance busi- 
ness (as defined above) from transactions with unrelated "customers." 

2. Substantial Activity Test.— Even if a finance company is "predominantly en- 
gaged," as in the case of all financial services companies, it will flunk the test of 
eligibility unless it conducts "substantial activity with respect to its business. The 
"substantial activity" test, as fleshed out in the committee report, is a facts-and-cir- 
cumstances test (e.g., overall size, the amount of revenues and expense, the number 
of employees, and the amount of property owned). In any event, however, the legis- 
lative history prescribes a "substantially all" test that requires a finance company 
to "conduct substantially all of the activities necessary for the generation of in- 
come"— a test that cannot be met by the performance of back-office activities. 

B. Once Eligibility is Established, Additional Requirements Must be Satisfied Before 
Income From Particular Transactions Can be Qualified Under the Active Financing 
Exception. 

As listed in the relevant committee report, there are only 21 types of activities 
that generate income eligible for the active financing exception. In addition, an eligi- 
ble Finance and Credit Company cannot qualify any income under the exception un- 
less the income meets four, additional statutory requirements that apply to all fi- 
nancial services businesses: 


ipor detailed analyses of other countries' approaches to anti-deferral policy with respect to 
active financing income, see 'The NFTC Foreign Income Project: International Tax Policy for 
the 21st Century," Chapter 4 (March 25, 1999). 



157 


1. The Exception Is Limited to Active Business /ncome— First, the income must 
be "derived by" the finance company in the active conduct of a banking, financing 
or simiiar business. This test, aione, wouid preciude appiication of the active financ- 
ing exception to the incorporated pocketbook of a high net worth individuai or a pooi 
of offshore passive assets. 

2. Prohibition on Transactions With U.S. Customers.— Secondiy, the income must 
be derived from one or more transactions with customers iocated in a country other 
than the United States. 

3. Substantial yAct;V/t/es.— Substantiaiiy aii of the activities" in connection with a 
particuiar transaction must be conducted directiy by the finance company in its 
home country. 

4. Activities Sufficient For a Foreign Country To Assert Taxing J urisdiction.—The 
income must be "treated as earned" by the Finance and Credit Company— i.e, sub- 
ject to tax— for purposes of the tax iaws of its home country. 

C. In any Event, a Finance Company Cannot Qualify any Income Under the Active 
Financing Exception Unless It me^s an Additional 30-Percent Flome Country Test. 

Under a "nexus" test appiicabie to Finance and Credit Companies (but not banks 
or securities firms with respect to which government reguiation satisfies the nexus 
requirement), a company must derive more than 30 percent of its separate gross in- 
come from transactions with unreiated customers in its home country. This ruie 
makes it highiy uniikeiy that taxpayers couid iocate a finance company in a tax 
haven and quaiify for the active financing exception, because tax havens are un- 
iikeiy to provide a customer base that would support the transactions required to 
meet the 30-percent home country test. Even if such a well-populated tax haven 
could be found, the ability to qualify income would be self-limiting (in terms of abso- 
lute dollars) by the dollar-value of transactions that could be derived from unre- 
lated, home-country customers. 


Conclusion 

We urge the Congress to extend the provision that grants active financial services 
companies an exception from subpart F. Without this legislation, the current law 
provision that keeps the U.S. financial services industry on an equal footing with 
foreign-based competitors will expire at the end of this year. Moreover, this legisla- 
tion will afford America's financial services industry parity with other segments of 
the U.S. economy. 


Statement of Larry Bossidy, AlliedSignal, and The Business Roundtable 

I am Larry Bossidy, Chairman and CEO of AlliedSignal and Chairman of the Fis- 
cal Policy Task Force of The Business Roundtable. I am submitting this statement 
for the record to express the views of The Business Roundtable on the corporate tax 
component of the 1999 tax reduction bill. The Business Roundtable is an association 
of chief executive officers of leading corporations with a combined workforce of more 
than 10 million employees in the United States. 

As the Committee designs a tax cut to return the budget surplus to taxpayers, 
we urge that you allocate the tax cut between corporate and individual taxpayers 
as their tax collections have jointly contributed to the budget surplus. Specifically, 
we urge the Committee to reduce corporate income taxes by $1 for every $4 that 
it cuts from individual income taxes, as this $1 to $4 ratio reflects the collection of 
income tax over the current economic expansion from 1992. Thus, if a tax bill is 
structured around income tax cuts of $778 billion, the 10-year target for corporate 
income tax reduction would be approximately $156 billion. Such a corporate tax cut 
would stimulate savings, investment, economic growth and job creation. 

In the United States, corporations employ more people, pay more wages, fund 
more research, invest in more plant and equipment, and support more employee 
benefits than any other type of business. We also pay more federal income tax. 
Therefore, one of our main public policy interests is how taxes are affecting corpora- 
tions in their central economic role as engines pulling the national economy. 

F rom that perspective, we urge the Committee to reduce the corporate income tax. 
Corporate funds that are not diverted to taxes can go into building the economy and 
underwriting prosperity in future years. The old saying is true: the time to invest 
is when you have it. The condition of the federal budget, itself a beneficiary of eco- 
nomic growth, makes corporate tax reduction feasible. Corporate tax reduction, in 
turn, can help sustain a strong recovery. 



158 


As shown in the accompanying tabie, the proposed l-to-4 tax cut ratio refiects the 
coliection of federai income taxes si nee the U.S. economy began its solid, long period 
of growth in 1992. Following the l-to-4 guideline for the corporate component of the 
tax bill will 

Be equitable, because the budget surplus will be paid back to taxpayers in 
the same proportion as it is being created. 

Preserve the balance between individual and corporate income taxes that has 
prevailed during our sustained prosperity, and 

Assure that some portion of the tax bill will make a contribution to con- 
tinuing economic growth and job creation. 

The Roundtable believes that the corporate portion of the tax-cut bill should cen- 
ter around reducing corporate income tax rates. A rate reduction is the fairest and 
simplest way to cut business taxes. It would benefit corporations of all sizes. It 
would put funds into play to compete for economic projects that have the best pros- 
pects for creating value and stimulating growth. The alternative is for the govern- 
ment to pick business winners based on politics and thus dilute the beneficial im- 
pact of a business tax reduction. As you know, the top corporate tax rate was raised 
from 34 percent to 35 percent in 1993 solely for deficit reduction, which is now an 
obsolete rationale. A two-percentage-point rate cut might be phased in— one point 
early in the 10-year planning period and another point later— to fit the time pattern 
of cuts that Congress has defined. 

We are also interested in other aspects of corporate taxes, such as simplification 
of international tax rules, a permanent R&E credit, and repeal of the corporate 
AMT. 

The international provisions of the U.S. tax law represent a significant barrier to 
the competitiveness of U.S. companies in the global marketplace. The U.S. tax re- 
gime imposes costs on the foreign operations of U.S. -based multinationals that are 
not borne by our foreign competitors. With the ever-increasing globalization of the 
economy, there is a great need for fundamental reform of the U.S. international tax 
rules. U.S. companies must be able to compete abroad on equal terms if we are to 
compete successfully at home. 

The International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness bill, intro- 
duced recently by Representative Floughton and Representative Levin and sup- 
ported by many Members of the Committee, addresses many of the needed reforms. 
Of particular significance is the request that the Treasury Department study the 
interest expense allocation rules. The present-law rules severely penalize U.S. -based 
multinationals by artificially restricting their ability to claim foreign tax credits for 
the taxes they pay to foreign countries, thereby subjecting them to double taxation. 
The interest allocation rules must be reformed to eliminate the distortions that 
cause this double taxation and to eliminate the competitive disadvantage at which 
the present-law rules place U.S. multinationals. 

The Tax Reform Act of 1997 included the prospective repeal of a rule enacted in 
1986 that restricted the ability of U.S. companies to claim foreign tax credits for 
foreign taxes paid by less-than-majority owned foreign subsidiaries: the inter- 
national simplification bill enhances this important simplification by accelerating 
the repeal of this rule. In addition, the bill would provide more appropriate tax 
treatment for the sale by a foreign subsidiary of an interest in a partnership. 

In addition to these simplification measures, another particularly important provi- 
sion is the permanent extension of the subpart F exception for active financial serv- 
ices income. This provision is essential to allowing the U.S. financial services indus- 
try compete with their foreign counterparts. 

These are just a few of the most pressing issues that need to be addressed in the 
U.S. international tax rules. We commend the Committee for its attention to these 
critical issues and look forward to working with the Committee to achieve the nec- 
essary reforms. 

We will make our tax directors available to your staff with information and com- 
ments in these and other areas if that would be helpful to your Committee. 

Federal Income Tax Collections During the Current Economic Expansion, 1992-1998 

[By fiscal year, in billions of dollars] 


Fiscal year 

Individual In- 
come T axes 

Corporate 1 n- 
come T axes 

Individual/ 

Corporate 

Ratio 

1992 

476.0 

100.3 

4.7 

1993 

509.7 

117.5 

4.3 

1994 

543.1 

140.4 

3.9 



159 


Federal Income Tax Collections During the Current Economic Expansion, 1992-1998- Continued 

[By fiscal year, in billions of dollars] 


Fiscal year 

Individual In- 
come T axes 

Corporate 1 n- 
come Taxes 

Individual/ 

Corporate 

Ratio 

1995 

590.2 

157.0 

3.8 

1996 

656.4 

171.8 

3.8 

1997 

737.5 

182.3 

4.0 

1998 

828.6 

188.7 

4.4 

Total 

4,341.4 

1,058.0 

4.1 


statement of the American Bankers Association 

The American Bankers Association (ABA) is pleased to have an opportunity to 
submit this statement for the record on the impact of U .S. tax rules on international 
competitiveness. 

The ABA brings together all elements of the banking community to best r^resent 
the interests of this rapidly changing industry. Its membership— which includes 
community, r^ional, and money center banks and holding companies, as well as 
savings asscciations, trust companies, savings banks and thrifts— makes ABA the 
largest banking trade association in the country. 

As technology and expanding trade opportunities change the global market place, 
financial institutions have had to make rapid adjustments in order to remain com- 
petitive with foreign financial entities. With respect to the international operations 
of U.S. -based financial institutions, the tax law has not kept pace with technological 
advances and changes in the global economy. 

The ABA supports the enactment of legislation that would simplify the inter- 
national tax law and that would assist, rather than hinder, U.S. financial institu- 
tions' global competitiveness. We agree with the observation that we can't afford a 
tax system that fails to keep pace with fundamental changes in the global economy 
or that creates barriers that place U.S. financial services companies at a competitive 
disadvantage. In that regard, the ABA would like to commend Representatives Amo 
Houghton (R-NY) and Sander Levin (D-MI) for the introduction of H.R. 2018, the 
International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act of 1999. H.R. 
2018 contains a number of important provisions that would do much to update U.S. 
international tax law and promote global competitiveness in the financial services 
industry. We would also like to commend Representatives J im McCrery (R-LA) and 
Richard Neal (D-MA) for the introduction of H.R. 681, which would permanently 
extend the active financing exception to subpart F. 

This statement will address a number of proposals currently under consideration, 
many of which have been included in H .R. 2018 and H .R. 681. 

Permanent Extension for Subpart F Active Financing Income Exception 

Prior to 1987, subpart F allowed deferral of U.S. tax on income derived in the ac- 
tive conduct of a banking business until the income was distributed to a U.S. share- 
holder. In 1986, Congress repealed the provisions put in place to ensure that a con- 
trolled foreign corporation's active financial services business income would not be 
subject to current tax in response to concerns about the potential for taxpayers to 
route passive or mobile income through tax havens. 

I n 1997, Congress added an exception to the subpart F rules for the active income 
of U.S. -based financial services companies. The 1986 rules were modified for a num- 
ber of reasons. An important reason was the fact that many U.S. financial services 
companies found that the existing rules imposed a competitive barrier in comparison 
to the home-country rules of many foreign-based financial services companies. More- 
over, the logic of the subpart F r^ime was flawed, given that most other U.S. busi- 
nesses were not subject to similar subpart F restrictions on their active trade or 
business income. The 1997 Taxpayer Relief Act added rules to address concerns that 
the provision would be available to shelter passive operations from U.S. tax. Due 
primarily to revenue constraints, the exception was made effective for only one year. 

I n 1998, the provision was extended and modified for the 1999 tax year. 

Thus, under current law, the active business income of U.S. financial institutions 
is subject to tax only when that income is distributed back to the U.S. This tem- 
porary exception to subpart F will expire in 1999, ending deferral of financial serv- 



160 


ices income and piacing finandai institutions on a more uneven piaying fieid vis- 
a-vis domestic manufacturing companies and giobai competitors. 

Generaiiy, active finandai services income is generaiiy recognized as active trade 
or business income. Thus, if the current-iaw provision were permitted to expire at 
the end of this year, U.S. finandai services companies wouid find themseives at a 
significant competitive disadvantage vis-a-vis major foreign competitors when oper- 
ating outside the United States. In addition, because the U.S. active financing ex- 
ception is currentiy temporary, it denies U.S. companies the certainty their foreign 
competitors have. The need for certainty in this area is important to U.S. compa- 
nies. They need to know the tax consequences of their business operations, which 
are generaiiy evaiuated on a muiti-year basis. 

Faiiure to extend the active financing exception this year wouid countermine ieg- 
isiative efforts to promote competitiveness and simpiification. Moreover, the tax 
structure wouid revert to a regime that inequitabiy penaiizes internationai finandai 
institutions, as the Nationai Foreign Trade Councii's report on subpart F ^ indicates. 

The ABA supports the permanent extension of the active financing exception to 
the subpart F for finandai services companies. 

Simplify the Foreign Tax Credit Limitation for Dividends from 10/50 

Companies 

The foreign tax credit ruies impose a separate foreign tax credit iimitation (sepa- 
rate baskets) for companies in which U.S. shareholders own at least 10 but no more 
than 50, percent of the foreign corporation. The old law 10/50 rule imposed an un- 
reasonable level of complexity, which Congress sought to correct in the 1997 Tax 
Relief Act by eliminating the separate baskets for 10/50 companies using a "look 
through" rule. Flowever, the 1997 Act change is not effective until after year 2002, 
and itself imposes an additional set of complex rules. 

The ABA supports the proposal to accelerate the effective date of the 1997 Act 
change to apply the look-through rules to all dividends received in tax years after 
December 31, 1998, irrespective of when the earnings constituting the makeup of 
the dividend were accumulated. Such change would dramatically reduce tax credit 
complexity and the administrative burdens on financial institutions doing business 
internationally. It would also help level the playing field with respect to global com- 
petitors. 

Subpart F Earnings and Profits Determined under Generally Accepted 
Accounting Principles (GAAP) 

The ABA supports the proposal to determine the subpart F earnings and profits 
of foreign subsidiaries under GAAP. Under current rules, determining the earnings 
and profits of foreign subsidiaries for subpart F purposes may comprise as many as 
five steps involving a series of complex and time-consuming computations. For ex- 
ample, the process would start with the local books of account of the foreign sub- 
sidiary, continuing through a series of complicated accounting and tax adjustments 
to the parent institution. On audit, each of the steps would have to be explained 
and justified to IRS agents. We agree with the proposition offered by certain wit- 
nesses at this hearing that using GAAP to determine earnings and profits would 
provide equally reliable figures at a fraction of the time and cost to the institution. 
In this connection, we point out that FI.R. 2018 contains such a provision, which we 
urge you to consider. 

Treatment of Certain Dividends of Regulated Investment Companies 

The ABA supports legislation that would exempt from U.S. withholding tax cer- 
tain dividends distributed by a U.S. mutual fund to non-resident alien individuals. 

The U.S. mutual fund industry has established a favorable global reputation for 
providing professional portfolio management as well as significant shareholder safe- 
guards. Flowever, current law hinders foreign individual investment in U.S. mutual 
funds in that the law does not extend the exemption from U.S. withholding tax on 
capital gains and interest income in investment portfolios to such funds. In par- 
ticular, interest income and short-term capital gains, which otherwise would be ex- 


1 International Tax Policy for the 21st Century: A Reconsideration of Subpart F (March 25, 
1999). In that report, the NFTC concluded that the development of a global economy has sub- 
stantially eroded subpart F's policy rationale; that subpart F subjects U.S.-based companies 
cross border operations to a heavier tax burden than that borne by their foreign-based competi- 
tors; and that subpart F applies too broadly to various categories of income that arise in the 
course of active foreign business operations, and should be substantially narrowed. 



161 


empt from U.S. withholding tax when received by foreign investors directly or 
through a foreign fund, are subject to U.S. withholding tax as "dividends" when dis- 
tributed by a U.S. fund to its investors. 

We note that H.R. 2018 contains a provision that would exempt such dividends 
from U.S. withholding tax. This change would help U.S. firms compete with foreign- 
based companies in attracting investments and we commend it to you for your con- 
sideration. 


Conclusion 

We appreciate having this opportunity to present our views on these issues. We 
look forward to working with you in the further development of solutions to our 
above-mentioned concerns. 

[By permission of the Chairman] 


Statement of Hon. Bill Alexander, American Citizens Abroad (ACA), 
Geneva, Switzerland 

Mr. Chairman, Members of the Committee: Let me thank you for the great pleas- 
ure of having this opportunity to submit a written statement. The subject that you 
are addressing is a worthy one and also a challenging and perplexing one. It is a 
subject that has been of particular interest to me for many years, including the 
twenty-four years while I served in this body representing my constituents in the 
First Congressional District of Arkansas. 

My District is one of the major rice growing areas of the United States. Flaving 
open and fair access to world markets is of great concern to my former constituents. 
To better understand their challenges, and to better serve their interests, I helped 
organize the Flouse Export Caucus. Later, because of active involvement in issues 
of trade and competitiveness, I had the privilege of serving on the President's Ex- 
port Council during the Carter Administration. Through contacts with American 
business and labor leaders, I began to understand even more clearly how the laws 
we enact, with what we believe to be a very justifiable and noble purpose in mind, 
can have very important unintended consequences in other areas that are also vital 
to the health and welfare of all Americans. It is in this conflict between noble and 
justifiable aims, and their related unintended consequences, that leads to the neces- 
sity to continually revisit questions such as the one we are addressing here again 
today. 

While serving on the Export Caucus and the President's Export Council, I had the 
opportunity to meet with leaders of a number of organizations which have been cre- 
ated by Americans living abroad, whose daily lives are touched by the laws and reg- 
ulations of the United States and, in particular, those laws and regulations that 
alter the nature of their competitive standing in the marketplaces of the world. 

One of these organizations, American Citizens Abroad (ACA), has been forceful 
and eloquent in articulating the concerns of this expatriate community. For more 
than twenty years they have been writing reports, drafting legislation, and pro- 
posing other forms of appropriate redress for the grievances that they feel are caus- 
ing harm not only to themselves but also to all Americans. It is my privilege today 
to be speaking on behalf of ACA, one of the strongest and clearest voices of the more 
than 3 million U .S. citizens who live and work abroad. 

Addressing the specific topic of this hearing, we ask: "Are the tax laws of the 
United States having an impact on the competitiveness of American goods and serv- 
ices in world markets?" 

There is another equally important and often overlooked question. Are U.S. tax 
laws making it difficult for U.S. citizens to live and work abroad in competition for 
jobs and as entrepreneurs with citizens of other countries? 

The quick answer to both of these questions is quite simple. Yes, the tax laws are 
having an impact and it is highly negative. 

It is negative principally because the United States is the only country that has 
seen fit to extend its domestic tax laws to embrace the income of its citizens living 
and working away from home. This extra-territorial reach of domestic legislation 
into foreign markets fundamentally distorts the economic rules of the game and tilts 
the playing field. Competitors in the marketplaces of the world compete by two sets 
of rules and two cost structures. One applies to Americans, the other applies to ev- 
eryone else. 

What the United States did in unilaterally distorting the competitive environment 
to the detriment of its expatriate citizens did not pass unnoticed. Shortly after the 



162 


United States started to impose domestic taxation on its overseas citizens in 1962, 
the major developed countries of the world, meeting under the auspices of the Orga- 
nization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), took up this very 
question of how citizens living away from home should be treated from a taxation 
point of view. The OECD members decided that a common set of standard rules ap- 
plying to all participants in the same market should be the norm. The OECD draft- 
ed, therefore, a model bi-lateral tax treaty that defines the tax status of citizens liv- 
ing away from their home countries. This bi-lateral tax treaty takes as its funda- 
mental premise that workers should have a unique tax liability to be defined by the 
country in which the individual is residing after a certain minimum period of time. 
Double taxation is considered not only unfair but also detrimental to efficient trad- 
ing. The OECD model proposes taxation of individuals that is predictable, consistent 
and applies equally to everyone in the same geographical market. 

When the United States negotiates tax treaties, it also uses the OECD model as 
a base. Then, however, it unilaterally adds additional language that states boldly 
that the protections in these treaties against double taxation will not apply to U.S. 
citizens! In other words, bi-lateral tax treaties negotiated by the United States that 
ensure competitive equality to foreign citizens living and working in the United 
States, at the same time guarantee competitive inequality and extra competitive 
handicaps to Americans living and working abroad. That, surely, is an incomprehen- 
sible trade policy. 

Does this really make a difference? Does imposing an additional tax burden on 
overseas Americans really have any impact on the ability of the United States to 
export American goods and services? 

When I was serving on President Carter’s Export Council in 1979, we set up a 
special task force to look into these and related questions on the impact of American 
taxation on trade. Our analysis was convincing and our conclusions were unambig- 
uous. The taxation of overseas Americans was costing the United States billions of 
dollars in lost trade, and tens of thousands of export- related jobs each year. We rec- 
ommended twenty years ago that the United States stop taxing Americans living 
and working abroad so that they might once again enjoy a level playing field 
throughout the world. 

How has the situation changed since then? We have a lot of anecdotal evidence 
to suggest that it hasn't improved very much. I regret very much that more concrete 
official statistical and analytical data is still lacking on this subject. I would have 
welcomed the chance to comment on any studies of the cost-benefit analysis of the 
taxation of overseas Americans carried out recently by at least one responsible agen- 
cy of the U.S. Government. Unfortunately, no such studies seem to be available. 

How do we explain that the U.S. Commerce Department prepares an annual as- 
sessment of barriers to trade imposed by other countries, but has never shown any 
similar curiosity concerning the barriers we impose on ourselves? 

How do we explain the anomaly of the aggressive efforts of the Office of the Spe- 
cial Trade Representative, ardently negotiating at the WTO and with foreign gov- 
ernments to open up foreign markets for U.S. origin goods and services, but never 
negotiating internally within the U.S. Government to eliminate the impediments 
that we ourselves have erected to the exploitation of these new market opportunities 
by our own citizens? 

In the absence of any such official information on this subject, I asked ACA to 
prepare the table that is attached to my statement. This shows the evolution of the 
Gross Domestic Product (GDP) of the United States since 1960, before the taxation 
of overseas Americans began, right up through the end of 1998. It also shows the 
evolution of imports, exports and the balance of trade since then. 

This table shows that when the law introducing expatriate taxation was first en- 
acted, trade was still a very modest percentage of GDP, and the United States was 
enjoying a small trade surplus. Not long thereafter, when the tax bite was starting 
to be felt abroad, trade grew to play a more important role in our domestic economy 
and a trade deficit began to appear. Trade as a percentage of GDP increased from 
less than 10% in 1962 to almost 25% in 1998. At the same time, the United States 
began to generate and accumulate the world's largest and most chronic trade deficit, 
which grew to 2% of GDP in 1998 alone. 

Taking an international comparative perspective, are the practices of the United 
States really that different from those of other countries? One of the founders of 
ACA looked specifically at this question. He carried out a study a few years ago 
comparing the way the major trading nations of the world treat their citizens living 
and working in foreign countries, and discovered that taxation was only one of the 
areas where the practices of the United States differed fundamentally from the 
practices of our competitors. Citizenship of children born abroad, access to social se- 
curity programs, health care, educational benefits, and myriad other issues are all 



163 


areas where other countries are usually much more generous than the United 
States. These are additional dimensions of the competitive advantage enjoyed by 
non-Americans. Sadly, the United States comes last in two categories. It imposes 
heavier burdens and grants fewer benefits than almost every other major trading 
nation. 

Does it make a difference when it is more expensive and bureaucratically burden- 
some for an American expatriate than an expatriate of another country? Let's put 
the question a different way. Would we ever consciously send our armed forces 
abroad to fight in foreign conflicts with severe competitive military handicaps com- 
pared with our adversaries? If not, why do we feel so complacent and have such a 
different attitude toward our overseas Americans who have to compete in the equal- 
ly ferocious trade battles? 

How specifically does the U.S. taxation of overseas Americans create a handicap? 
Let me give a few brief examples. 

If Americans have to pay taxes to two countries on the same income, and if both 
countries define income, and taxes, differently, there will inevitably be income that 
is taxed more than once. Many taxes paid abroad are not recognized as tax eligible 
for credit under U.S. tax rules because the tax is novel and not used the same way 
in the USA. Even in the case of credit given for some foreign income taxes paid 
abroad, the United States has moved recently to reduce the value of this credit by 
applying the Alternative Minimum Tax to the foreign earned income exclusion. In 
other words, today there is a mandatory minimum amount of double tax that has 
to be paid on certain incomes, even if that income has already been fully taxed at 
the same rate by another country! 

The extra tax paid abroad obviously has to come from somewhere. Either the 
American expatriate taxpayer then has to live with a lower take-home pay than col- 
leagues of other nationalities earning the same gross income, or the employer will 
have to make up the difference. In many multinational companies, the practice in 
recent years has been for equal take-home pay for equal work for all expatriate em- 
ployees of any nationality. Thus, the employer has to endure an extra expense for 
every U.S. citizen on the payroll. Ask, as I have done, whether corporations overseas 
are less inclined to hire Americans than people of other nationalities and the an- 
swers are usually clear and unambiguous. Americans are less likely to be hired be- 
cause they are more expensive. The net difference in cost is a payment that has to 
be made to the U.S. government for the privilege of having an American on the pay- 
roll. And, because of the way the repayment of the extra tax is made, the burden 
grows larger every year. So even if an American is hired to work abroad, the extra 
cost for an expatriate American keeps getting larger and larger. This is another in- 
centive to reduce the American expatriate staff. 

Even more perplexing and competitively debilitating is the exquisite complexity 
of the U .S. tax laws as they apply to Americans living and working abroad. Because 
they are so hard to understand, many Americans are forced to have recourse to ex- 
pensive tax and legal consultants and can end up paying even more in service 
charges to correctly fill out their tax returns than they end up paying in tax. The 
competitive handicap then becomes double. Not only is the tax a burden, but the 
cost of complying with the complexity of the tax compounds the burden. 

Finally, Mr. Chairman, we should be paying much more attention to the competi- 
tive handicap that our tax laws create for American entrepreneurs overseas, espe- 
cially those who are willing to set up a small business in remote parts of the world. 
The costs associated with the filling out of forms and filing returns for small entre- 
preneurial controlled foreign corporations are a very heavy disincentive. The only 
way many such businesses could survive is by simply ignoring the current law and 
risking the consequences. Yet who better than an American entrepreneur should be 
encouraged to go abroad, set up an innovative new business, and manifest the vir- 
tues and benefits of the liberal democratic political and economic system we have 
found to be so propitious to our welfare and way of life at home. 

In other words, does it really make sense for the United States to spend billions 
of dollars each year of taxpayer money on aid projects in developing countries when, 
without any cost to the United States, we could simply turn loose our American en- 
trepreneurs and wish them well? If we would get rid of the expense and complexity 
of our current tax laws as a disincentive to our entrepreneurs, I believe we could 
much more effectively help developing countries become much more prosperous, and 
at a much lower cost totheAmerican taxpayer. 

My concern about the importance of overseas Americans to the long term eco- 
nomic health and vitality of our country motivated me to introduce legislation to end 
the taxation of Americans overseas. The last bill, which I introduced in 1992 (102nd 
Congress HR 4562), was co-sponsored by my good friend Congressman Ben Gilman, 
now the Chairman of the House Committee on I nternational Relations. 



164 


In summary, my conviction is that changing the tax iaws of the United States 
wouid have a dramatic and materiai impact on the abiiity of Americans to compete 
in foreign markets. I beiieve that this wouid encourage many more Americans to 
iive and work abroad, to set up smaii businesses abroad, and be a powerfui con- 
tribution toward a more safe and prosperous worid. 

It is noteworthy that overseas Americans have never asked the U.S. Government 
for speciai competitive favors abroad. Are they reaiiy asking for too much when they 
request the right to be abie to compete on a more ievei piaying fieid? I think not. 

My hope, therefore, Mr. Chairman, is that you and your colieagues wiii agree that 
giving overseas Americans a fair and equai chance to compete abroad is not oniy 
good for them, but good for us aii. Amending the tax iaws of the United States 
wouid have a positive impact on the internationai competitiveness of our country 
and its citizens at home and abroad. 

Thank you. 




165 


statement of the American Petroleum I nstitute 

I . I NTRODUCTION 

This Statement is submitted by the American Petroieum Institute (API) for the 
J une 30, 1999 Ways and Means hearing on the impact of U.S. tax rules on the inter- 
national competitiveness of U.S. workers and businesses. API represents approxi- 
mately 300 companies involved in all aspects of the oil and gas industry, including 
exploration, production, transportation, refining and marketing. 

Significance of Foreign Operations for U.S. Oil Companies 

While U.S. petroleum reserves are depleting, federal and state government poli- 
cies increase restrictions on exploration for, and development of, new deposits. To 
stay in business, U.S. petroleum companies must find new reserves overseas. This 
is at a time when U.S. oil industry is losing its leadership position because of the 
shrinking advantages over its foreign competition from U.S. technology and invest- 
ment capital. 

The loss of ground by U.S. oil companies relative to their foreign competitors is 
alarming. In 1974, 6 of the 10 largest oil companies in the world, and 4 of the top 
5, were U .S. -based. I n 1995, only 5 of the top 10 companies, and 2 of the top 5, were 
U.S. -based. According to a recent API study for the period of 1985 to 1995, foreign 
production by U.S. companies increased by 300,000 barrels/day. Nevertheless, that 
was not enough to offset the declines in U.S. production, so that U.S. companies' 
total global production during that period actually declined. Over that same period, 
production by similarly sized foreign oil companies other than those from OPEC 
countries expanded nearly 60%. 

U.S. TaxPolicy Adversely Affects Competitiveness 

A major factor in the decline in U.S. companies' relative share in global produc- 
tion is U.S. international tax policy. U.S. tax rules impose a substantial economic 
burden on U.S. companies not faced by their foreign competition. This is because 
the U.S. tax regime exposes U.S. multinational companies to double taxation (that 
is, the payment of tax on foreign source income to both the host country and to the 
U.S.) and to taxation before repatriation of profits. Moreover, complexities of the 
U.S. tax rules result in significant compliance costs not faced by foreign competitors. 
As a result, U.S. companies may be forced to forego foreign investment altogether 
based on projected after-tax rates of return, or they may be preempted in bids for 
overseas investments by their foreign competitors. 

Since the early sixties, U.S. tax policy has been driven by the goal of capital ex- 
port neutrality which purports to remove any tax advantages of foreign investment 
by equalizing the tax burden for U.S. and foreign investments. A continuing adher- 
ence to this policy ignores that the allocation of investment capital is no longer con- 
trolled by multi-national corporations alone but is increasingly influenced by port- 
folio investors, reflecting the development of a global capital market. Thus, tax pol- 
icy no longer exerts the same control over domestic vs. foreign investment by U.S. 
corporations as in the past, but may affect whether U.S. residents invest through 
U.S. or foreign corporations. 

Foreign I nvestment Strengthens the U.S. Economy 

U.S. tax policy with respect to foreign source income, although intending to tax 
the return on foreign and domestic investment the same, has developed a demon- 
strable bias against foreign operations. This policy was based on the postulate that 
foreign investment by U.S. business loses jobs and capital for the domestic market. 
This is not empirically demonstrable. More importantly, this ineffective policy, as 
a relict of a past era, conflicts with global integration and removal of trade barriers. 

With the entry into the information age, foreign investment by U.S. companies 
must no longer be viewed in the context of a Runaway Plant problem, but as cre- 
ating new opportunities for U.S. employment in management and support functions 
as well as the export of products and technology. Moreover, for U.S. oil companies 
the location of opportunities for investment is dictated by subterraneous geological 
history. It is merely a question of whether the U.S. company or its foreign compet- 
itor will have the opportunity of the investment in the oil and gas project. But in 
case of a failure of the U.S. company to obtain the business opportunity, it is not 
at all certain that the freed up capital be invested in the U.S. First of all, there 
may be a lack of comparable domestic investment opportunities. Secondly, the U.S. 



166 


portfolio investor, who ultimately controls the available capital, may shift his invest- 
ment to a foreign competitor who has access to more profitable projects. 

Foreign investment by a U.S. oil company has significant benefits. A persistent, 
strong foreign presence of U.S. oil companies maintains foreign employment of U.S. 
personnel and utilization of U.S. technology in foreign markets and maintains do- 
mestic employment in activities which support those companies' foreign operations. 
The U.S. oil and gas industry directly employs almost 60,000 Americans in the U.S. 
in jobs directly dependent on these companies' international operations. Over 

140.000 additional Americans are employed in the U.S. by U.S. suppliers to the in- 
dustry's foreign operations. An additional 150,000 Americans are employed in the 
U.S. supporting those working for the oil companies and their suppliers. Thus, over 

350.000 Americans owe their jobs to the international success of the U.S. oil and 
gas industry. 

As distinguished from tax policy, U.S. trade policy supports foreign investment by 
U.S. oil companies. Examples are the encouragement toU.S. participation in the oil 
field of the Caspian Sea countries which was praised by the Administration as fos- 
tering the political independence of those newly formed nations, as well as securing 
new sources of oil to Western nations, still too heavily dependent on Middle-East 
i mports. 

The opening of the countries of the former Soviet-Union to foreign capital and the 
privatization of energy in portions of Latin America, Asia and Africa— all offer the 
potential for unprecedented opportunity in meeting the challenges of supplying fuel 
to a rapidly growing world economy. In each of these frontiers, U.S. companies are 
poised to participate actively. Flowever, if U.S. companies cannot compete because 
they operate under comparatively disadvantageous home country tax rules, foreign 
resources will instead be produced by foreign competitors, with little or no benefit 
to the U.S. economy, U.S. companies, or American workers. 

TheGoal of Capital Export Neutrality Overshot 

Tax Code provisions that are driven by capital export neutrality often violate their 
theoretical underpinning. As we will discuss below, the fractioning of the foreign tax 
credit (FTC) basket, the income sourcing and deduction allocation rules, the imposi- 
tion of U.S. concepts in testing the income tax character of a foreign tax,i the lim- 
ited excess credit carryover, and the transfer pricing criteria, all can result in double 
taxation, clearly in violation of capital export neutrality. Similarly, where the for- 
eign tax is higher, there is no reduction of the U.S. tax and the foreign investment 
bears more tax as compared to the domestic opportunity, failing to assure export 
neutrality. 

Hearing Promises Correction in Priorities of U .5. tax policy 

We welcome this Flearing as a recognition of the need of an overhaul of the tax- 
ation of foreign source income that is driven by a reformulated U.S. tax policy with 
multinational competitiveness^ as primary criterion. 

In the past, revenue raising in and of itself was paramount. One will recall that 
in the last hours of the deliberations of the Tax Reform Act of 1986 it was the tax- 
ation of foreign source income that was used as a source of additional revenue. To 
further illustrate, the Treasury Department's January 1993 interim report on 
"International Tax Reform" lists simplification as primary objective, followed by ad- 
ministrability, consistency, economic efficiency, and (only last) "competitiveness." 
The Committee's focus on what should be the primary criterion of a sound tax policy 
for the taxation of foreign source income will assure that tax policy will fall into 
step with a modern trade policy. 

The international competitiveness of U.S. firms must become the primary cri- 
terion for U.S. taxation of foreign source. This will agree with U.S. foreign trade pol- 
icy for the new global market place which. Efforts must continue to level the playing 
field as regards home country taxation. Such efforts should include considerations 
of whether the time has come for the introduction of a territorial system of taxation 
by the United States. 

A realignment of the present system with today's global market place will con- 
tribute to a strengthening of the foreign presence of U.S. oil companies which 
assures not only employment of U.S. personnel both abroad and in domestic support 


i|n other words, the arrogated preemption of the foreign sovereign's choice of how to exercise 
its power to tax. 

2 By thej CT defined as "the abiiity of U.S. muitinationais (firms headquartered in the United 
States that operate abroad) that iocate production faciiities overseas to compete in foreign mar- 
kets. . . . This definition of competitiveness focuses on the after-tax returns to investments in 
production faciiities abroad." E.g., j CS-6-91, at 8 (1991). 



167 


functions, but also exports of equipment and supplies from the U.S. for use in the 
foreign operations. 

Passage of The International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act 
of 1999, H.R. 2018 Would be a Significant Step Towards Leveling thePlaying Field 
in the Global Market Place 

The proposed International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act 
of 1999, H.R. 2018, goes a long way toward simplifying the current U.S. inter- 
national tax rules and removing some of the inequities in the existing system. As 
reflected in our subsequent discussion, of particular interest to our members are: 
the repeal of compliance costly Code Section 907 additional separate limitation on 
Foreign Oil and Gas Extraction Income (FOGEI) as obsolete because of the numer- 
ous cross-crediting limitations under the FTC basket rules and the all industry en- 
compassing dual capacity taxpayer regulations (Sec. 208); the acceleration of the re- 
peal of the separate FTC limitation for dividends received from noncontrolled 10/ 
50 companies (Sec. 204); the recognition of the need to treat the European Union 
as one country under the subpart F rules (Sec. 102); the introduction of symmetry 
through the adoption of an overall domestic loss recapture (Sec. 202); the look- 
through for sales of partnership interests (Sec. 107); the extension of look-through 
rules to interest, rents, and royalties from a noncontrolled Section 902 corporation 
or a noncontrolled foreign partnership (Sec. 205); the repeal of the 10% limitation 
on the use of FTCs under the Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT)(Sec. 207); the option 
to determine subpart F E&P under generally accepted accounting principles (Sec. 
104): the exception of foreign operations of foreign persons from the uniform capital- 
ization rules (UNICAP) (Sec. 302); the clarification that income solely from pipeline 
transportation through a foreign country is not subject to subpart F (Sec. 105); the 
extension of the FTC carryforward to ten years (Sec. 201) and the change of the or- 
dering rules so that carryover credits are deemed to be used first (Sec. 206); and 
the recognition of the need to correct the distorting and complex interest allocation 
rules (Sec. 309). 

Our statement comments in more detail on these provisions. We also highlight 
other aspects of current law which affect our members' international competitive- 
ness due to potential double taxation, the taxation of controlled foreign corporations' 
(CFC) earnings before repatriation, and the disproportionate compliance costs. We 
suggest relief from these problems which should have no or little revenue effects. 

II. How U.S. Tax Rules Place U.S. Companies at a Competitive Disadvantage 
IN THE Global Marketplace 

Foreign Tax Credit and Deferral as CoroHaries of World WideTaxation 

One of the most serious risks to foreign operations by multinational firms is their 
vulnerability to double taxation. Two approaches have been adopted to remedy this 
problem: worldwide taxation with a credit for taxes paid to foreign governments, 
and territorial taxation which limits a home country's taxation of its citizens to in- 
come generated within its national boundaries. 

The U.S. taxes domestic corporations on worldwide income. That is, U.S. compa- 
nies are subject to the same U.S. tax liability whether that income is earned at 
home or abroad. As a complement to world-wide taxation, the FTC is, of course, de- 
signed to prevent double taxation. Furthermore, world-wide income should be taxed 
only when realized by the subjects of U.S. taxation, i.e, U.S. citizens (including U.S. 
corporations) and resident aliens. L^islative and administrative changes within the 
last several decades have severely diluted and emasculated these tenets. 

The Flawed Foragn Tax Credit Regime 

Although the U.S. allows a credit against a company's U.S. tax liability for taxes 
paid to foreign governments, the FTC does not fully protect U.S. companies against 
double taxation, placing U.S. companies at a competitive disadvantage. In addition, 
the FTC will not assure export neutrality where the host country imposes a higher 
tax than the U.S. tax because there is no refund of the excess tax burden. 

But even where the host country tax is equal to or lower than the U.S., many 
of the FTC rules prevent export neutrality because they subject US corporations to 
double taxation. As discussed, these restrictive features include the rules on (1) 
creditability of foreign taxes which impose U.S. income tax criteria on foreign tax 
regimes: (2) limited credit carryover periods which do not take into account the dif- 
ferences in income and deduction recognition timing under the host country rules: 
(3) the numerous FTC baskets: (4) transfer pricing: (5) sourcing of income: (6) alloca- 
tion of deductions: (6) transfer pricing: (7) and loss of deferral which inhibits effec- 
tive tax credit management. 



168 


Many of our trading partners limit home country tax of their citizens to income 
generated within their national boundaries. Foreign competitors based in territorial 
taxation countries still enjoy a benefit even where the host country tax is lower than 
the U.S. tax and the above mentioned distorting effects do not come into play. 

For example, when income earned abroad by a U.S. company is subject to a for- 
eign income tax rate that is less than the U.S. rate, then U.S. companies are sub- 
jected to a tax burden (to the U.S.) not borne by foreign competition from a country 
with territorial taxation: 



U.S.-based company 

Competitor from 
territorial system 
home country 

1 ncome from H ost Country 

100 

100 

Host country tax at 25% 

25 

25 

Take home 

75 

75 

Home country taxable income 

100 

0 

U .S. tax at 35% 

35 


FTC 

25 


Residual U.S. tax 

10 


After T ax 1 ncome 

65 

75 

Competitor's Higher Return 


15.4% 


U.S. Shareholders areTaxed on Deemed Dividends 

As originally adopted, world-wide taxation by the U.S. was intended to capture 
the income of citizens and residents. Flowever, driven by a concern that US tax- 
payers could keep movable passive income in CFCs outside the US taxation, anti- 
deferral rules were adopted which tax the U.S. shareholder before it realizes certain 
earnings of its CFC. Despite this "movable passive income" rationale for the subpart 
F regime, anti-deferral rules were extended to certain operating income despite the 
fact that such earnings were not received by the shareholder and may have been 
reinvested by the CFC in active business operations. 

III. Relief from Major Adverse Rules 
A. Dd'ectsin the Foreign Tax Credit Regime 

Foreign Tax Credit Separate Basket Rules. Foreign taxes can be utilized as a cred- 
it only up to the amount of U.S. tax on foreign source income. Thus, an overall limi- 
tation on currently usable FTC's is computed by taking the ratio of foreign source 
income to worldwide taxable income and multiplying this by the tentative U.S. tax 
on worldwide income. The FTC separate basket rules further limit the allowable 
FTC. The overall FTC limitation must be computed separately for more than nine 
separate categories, or baskets, of foreign source income. Thus, U.S. tax rules force 
taxpayers in the active conduct of a trade or business to divide their active business 
income into multiple baskets, with the concomitant inability to cross credit. U.S. 
companies are often unable to make up for differences in timing and the mutations 
of the incom^expense profiles, etc., of the tax regimes of the host countries. Because 
the separate basket rules increase the likelihood that a U.S. company will owe re- 
sidual U.S. tax on foreign source income, they further widen the gap between the 
U.S. companies' and their competitors' home countries tax systems, to the disadvan- 
tage of U.S. businesses. 

Foreign taxes on active business income should be available for cross credit. We 
must return to the roots of the FTC and allow full credit against U.S. taxes on for- 
eign business income for all foreign taxes and not limit their use through the impo- 
sition of a schedular system. Any undesirable shielding of U.S. tax on offshore pas- 
sive income can be prevented by one separate passive basket. 

Foreign Oil and Gas Extraction Income and Foreign Oil Related Income CodeSec- 
tion 907. In the computation of the overall FTC limitation foreign oil and gas income 
falls into the general limitation basket. But before this limitation for general oper- 
ating income, foreign income taxes on foreign oil and gas income have to clear the 
additional tax credit hurdle of Code Section 907. 

Section 907 limits the utilization of foreign income taxes on FOGEI to that income 
times the current U.S. corporate income tax rate. The excess credits may be carried 
back two years and carried forward five years, with the creditability limitation of 
Section 907 being applicable for each such year. Section 907 also authorizes Treas- 
ury to provide in regulations that a purported income tax on foreign oil related in- 



169 


come (FORI) is not creditable but only deductible to the extent such income tax on 
FORI is materially greater than the amount of tax imposed on income other than 
FORI or FOGEI. FORI is income derived from the foreign refining, transportation, 
and distribution, of oil and gas and its primary products. Furthermore, Section 907 
provides that, if the taxpayer has an overall foreign extraction loss in a year that 
reduces non-extraction income, a corresponding amount of FOGEI in a subsequent 
year has to be re-characterized as income which is not FOGEI . 

Section 907 was originally enacted in 1975 in reaction to the first oil crisis and 
out of a concern that the high oil and gas production taxes paid to host countries 
might be in part the economic equivalent of ground rents or royalties. Unlike the 
U.S. and some Canadian provinces, mineral rights in other countries vest in the for- 
eign sovereign, which then grants exploitation rights. Because of this identity of the 
grantor of the mineral rights and the taxing sovereign, the high tax rates imposed 
on oil and gas profits have become subject to scrutiny whether this government take 
is in part payment for the grant of "a specific economic benefit" from the mineral 
exploitation rights. 

Congress intended for the FOGEI and FORI rules to purport to identify the tax 
component of payments by U.S. oil companies to foreign governments. The goal was 
to limit the FTC to that amount of the foreign government's "take" which was per- 
ceived to be a tax payment vs. a royalty as payment for the production privilege. 
But even the so identified creditable tax component should be not be used to shield 
the U.S. tax on certain low taxed other foreign income, such as shipping. 

These concerns have been adequately addressed in subsequent administrative 
rulemaking and legislation. After several years of discussion and drafting. Treasury 
completed in 1983 the "dual capacity taxpayer rules" of the FTC regulations which 
set forth a methodology for determining how much of an income tax payment to a 
foreign government will not be creditable because it is a payment for a specific eco- 
nomic benefit. Such a benefit could, of course, also be derived from the grant of oil 
and gas exploration and development rights. These regulations have worked well for 
both IRS and taxpayers in various businesses (eg., foreign government contractors), 
including the oil and gas industry. In addition, the multiple separate basket rules 
were enacted in 1986, restricting taxpayers from offsetting excess FTC's from high- 
taxed income against taxes due on low-tax categories of income. 

Since 907 has been rendered obsolete since the function of Section 907 is now 
fully covered by the FTC baskets of the 1986 Act and the "dual capacity taxpayer 
regulations" under Code Section 901. Furthermore, the Section 907 limitation has 
raised little, if any, additional tax revenue because excess FOGEI taxes would not 
have been needed to offset U.S. tax on other foreign source income. Nevertheless, 
oil and gas companies continue to be subject to burdensome compliance work. Each 
year, they must separate FOGEI from FORI and the foreign taxes associated with 
each cat^ory. These are time consuming and work intensive analyses, which have 
to be replicated on audit. Section 907 should be repealed as obsolete [Sec. 208 of 
The International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act of 1999] 
which would promote simplicity and efficiency of tax compliance and audit. 

Dividends Received from 10/50 Companies. The 1997 Tax Act repealed the sepa- 
rate basket rules for dividends received from 10/50 companies, effective after the 
year 2002. A separate FTC basket will be required for post-2002 dividends received 
from pre-2003 earnings. Because of these limitations, U.S. companies will continue 
to forego in many cases foreign projects through noncontrolled 10/50 corporations. 
Accordingly, the repeal will remove significant complexity and compliance costs for 
taxpayers and foster their global competitiveness. 

The repeal of the separate limitation basket requirement with respect to divi- 
dends received from 10/50 companies therefore should be accelerated. In addition, 
the requirement of maintaining a separate limitation basket for dividends received 
from E&P accumulated before the repeal should be eliminated [see Sec. 204 of The 
I nternational Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act of 1999]. 

Look-through Treatment for Saie of Partnership Interests. The distributive share 
of partnership income of an at least 10% partner of a foreign partnership brings 
with it all tax attributes, including the FTC basket classification. By contrast, the 
gain on the sale of a partnership interest falls into the passive income FTC cat- 
egory. A 1988 amendment to Code Section 954 characterizes the gain on the disposi- 
tion of a foreign partnership as Foreign Personal Flolding Company Income (FPFICI) 
which is referenced in the passive income definition of the FTC categories. 

The passive income categorization is particularly burdensome for the oil and gas 
industry. Because of frequent inability to secure 100% of the mineral interest from 
foreign governments, the business strategy to spread the risk of exploration by par- 
ticipating in several projects instead of "putting all the eggs into one basket," or be- 
cause of capital restraints, U.S. companies typically find themselves as joint ven- 



170 


turers in foreign expi oration projects. Uniess there is an eiection-out under thej oint 
Operating Agreement, the venture wiii be a partnership for U.S. purposes. Under 
current ruies the gain from the saie of such venture participation wouid be passive 
income even though it is the disposition of an interest in business operations whose 
venue was not chosen for tax reasons but because of nature's piacement of the nat- 
ure i resource. 

The 1988 amendment confiicts with the aggregate theory of partnership taxation. 
It is generaiiy appiied in foreign income taxation with respect to the effect of part- 
ner ievei transactions. Furthermore, there is no rationaiefor treating the disposition 
gain different from the income distribution. Both are reaiizations of vaiues gen- 
erated in the partnership and differ oniy in the form of reaiization. 

Economicaiiy, any gain on the saie of the partnership interest is attributabie to 
the vaiue of the partnership assets. If the partnership soid the assets, the FTC cat- 
egories for such income wouid fiow through to the partner. The same ruie shouid 
appiy if the partner by seiiing its partnership interest seiis the equivaient of its un- 
divided interest in the partnership assets [See Section 107 of The I nternationai Tax 
Si mpiifi cation for American Competitiveness Act of 1999 which removes the gain on 
disposition of a partnership interest from passive income not oniy for purposes of 
the FTC basket ruies but aiso from FPFICI]. It is not oniy inequitabie but aiso 
counterintuitive for the iegai form of the vai ue reaiization to controi the FTC basket 
characterization. 

Look-through Treatment for Interest, Rents, and Royalties With Respect To Non- 
Controlled Foreign Corporations and Partnerships. U.S. companies are often unabie, 
due to government restrictions or operationai considerations, to acquire controiiing 
interests in foreign corporate joint ventures. To aiign their position with generai 
participation situations in foreign projects, they aiso shouid be granted the iook- 
through treatment for interest, rents and royaities received from foreign joint ven- 
tures as in the case of distributions from a CFC. 

Current tax ruies aiso require that payments of interest, rents and royaities from 
noncontroiied foreign partnerships (i.e, foreign partnerships owned between 10 and 
50% by U.S. owners) must be treated as separate basket income to the joint venture 
partners. Again, as in the case of corporate joint ventures, iook-through treatment 
shouid be extended to these business entities. This wouid aboiish distinctions in 
treatment of distributions that are based on participation percentages which may 
be beyond the controi of the U.S. taxpayer [See Section 205 of The I nternationai Tax 
Si mpiifi cation for American Competitiveness Act of 1999]. 

Recapture of Overall Domestic Losses. When in a tax year foreign source iosses 
reduce U.S. source income (overaii foreign ioss or OFL), this perceived benefidai do- 
mestic taxation effect has to be "recaptured" by resourcing foreign source income in 
a subsequent tax year as domestic source. Of course, this re-characterization re- 
duces the ratio of foreign source income to totai income, which in turn reduces the 
ratio of tentative U.S. tax which can be offset against foreign taxes. Flowever, if for- 
eign source income is reduced by U.S. source iosses, there is no paraiiei system of 
"recapture." Taxpayers are not aiiowed to recover or recapture foreign source income 
that was iost due to a domestic ioss. The U.S. iosses thus can give rise to excess 
FTC's which, due to the FTC carryover restrictions, may expire unused. Oniy a cor- 
responding re-characterization of future domestic income as foreign source income 
wiii reduce the risk that FTC carryovers do not expire unused [See Section 202 of 
The I nternationai Tax Simpiifi cation for American Competitiveness Act of 1999]. 

Foreign Tax Credit Carryover Rules. The utiiization of income taxes paid to for- 
eign countries as FTC is iimited to the U.S. tax that is owed on the foreign source 
income. Thus, an overaii iimitation on currentiy usabie FTC's is computed by taking 
the ratio of foreign source income to woridwide taxabie income and muitipiying this 
by the tentative U.S. tax on woridwide income. The excess FTC's can be carried 
back to the two preceding taxabie years, or to the five succeeding taxabie years, sub- 
ject in each of those years to the same overai i iimitation. If the credits are not used 
within this timeframe, they expire. 

Because of the ever increasing iimitations on the use of FTC's, coupied with the 
differences in income recognition between foreign and U.S. tax ruies, excess credit 
positions are frequent. Present iaw's short seven year carryover (2-year carryback 
and 5-year carryforward) period easiiy resuits in credits being iost, most iikeiy re- 
suiting in doubie taxation. 

As a modernization step, deariy within the iong-standing poiicy of not taxing the 
same income twice, the carryover periods for excess FTCs shouid be extended, in 
accordance with the rationaie of the much ionger period aiiowed for net operating 
ioss utiiization [See Section 201 of The I nternationai Tax Simpiification for Amer- 
ican Competitiveness Act of 1999 which extends the carryforward to 10 years and 
Sec. 206 assuring first use of carryover credits]. 



171 


Allocation of Interest Expense Current law requires the interest expense of all 
U.S. members of an affiliated group to be apportioned to all domestic and foreign 
income, based on assets. The current rules deny U.S. multinationals the full U.S. 
tax benefit from the interest incurred to finance their U.S. operations. For example, 
if a domestically operating member of a U.S. tax consolidation with foreign oper- 
ations incurs interest to finance the acquisition of new environmental protection 
equipment, a portion of the interest will be allocated against foreign source income 
of the group and therefore become ineffective in reducing U.S. tax. A U.S. subsidiary 
of a foreign corporation (or a U.S. corporation— or affiliated group— without foreign 
operations) would not suffer a comparable detriment. 

Unless allocation based on fair market value of assets is elected, allocations of in- 
terest expense according to the adjusted tax bases of assets allocate too much inter- 
est to foreign assets. For U.S. tax purposes, foreign assets generally have higher ad- 
justed bases than similar domestic assets because domestic assets are eligible for 
accelerated depreciation while foreign-sited assets are assigned a longer life and 
limited to straight-line depreciation. For purposes of the allocation, the E&P of a 
CFC is added to the stock basis. Since the E&P reflects the slower depreciation, the 
interest allocated against foreign source income is disproportionately high. 

Rules similar to the Senate version of interest allocation in the Tax Reform Act 
of 1986 would alleviate the current anti-competitive results. In addition to the do- 
mestic consolidated group, the allocation group would include all companies that 
would be eligible for U.S. tax consolidation but for being foreign corporations. The 
interest allocated to foreign source income under this worldwide taxpayer rule 
would be reduced by the interest that would be allocable to foreign source income 
from the foreign corporations if treated as separate group. Second, as an exception 
to the "one taxpayer" rule, "stand alone" subsidiaries could elect to allocate interest 
on certain qualifying debt on a mini-group basis, i.e., looking only to the assets of 
that subsidiary, including stock. 

F urthermore, taxpayers should be allowed to elect to use the E&P bases of assets, 
rather than the adjusted tax bases, for purposes of allocating interest expense. Use 
of E&P basis would produce a fair result because the E&P rules are similar to the 
rules now in effect for determining the tax bases of foreign assets [See FI.R. 2270 
introduced by Messrs. Portman and Matsui as the Interest Allocation Reform Act]. 

Foreign Tax Credit Limitation under the Alternative Minimum Tax. U.S. tax rules 
prohibit the use of FTC's to reduce the tentative minimum tax (AMT) to less than 
10% of the tax before the FTC (AMT FTC Cap). Excess credits are eligible for carry- 
over under the same carryover rules discussed above. The AMT FTC Cap was part 
of a general floor for the use of net operating loss (NOE) and investment tax credit 
(ITC) carryovers. But the FTC serves a function distinct and different from NOLs 
or the ITCs, the other tax attributes whose utilization is limited for AMT purposes. 

The NOE carryover rules are designed to overcome any hardships resulting from 
the annual accounting concept. The ITC is a tax benefit designed to foster invest- 
ment in productive capital. Both provisions developed only over time and do not 
have the systematic cogency of the FTC. As the logical and systematic result of the 
U.S. claiming worldwide taxing jurisdiction over U.S. corporations, the FTC has 
been a fixture of the U.S. tax system since 1918. Concurrently with the adoption 
of worldwide taxing jurisdiction, the U.S. ceded primary taxing jurisdiction to the 
host country. To deny a full offset of AMT with FTC violates this principle of sec- 
ondary U.S. taxation of foreign source income. 

The AMT'S rationale to assure U.S. tax payments on economic income is inappro- 
priate with respect to foreign source economic income if the result is double tax- 
ation. While the AMT envisions acceleration of tax payments which otherwise would 
become due in the future (only deferred because of preferences or tax attributes like 
NOE and ITC), the availability of FTC's reflects that an appropriate tax already has 
been exacted from the taxpayer. To the extent of FTC's, there is no economic income 
which escapes taxation. Accordingly, the AMT FTC Cap should be repealed [See 
Section 207 of The International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness 
Act of 1999]. 

Repeal Code Section 901(j) which Denies Foreign Tax Credit with Respect to Coun- 
tries Supporting Terrorism, Etc. The global political landscape has changed consider- 
ably since the enactment of this provision in 1986. Not only are confrontational po- 
larizations into opposing power centers fading, so is terrorism as means of inter- 
national politics. Barriers have come down so fast that the establishment of diplo- 
matic relations cannot keep up with global integration. 

The retention of this provision merely hinders business developments because of 
the lag in establishing full diplomatic relations. 

State Tax Aiiocati on to Foreign income Pursuant to a statutory grant of general 
rulemaking authority. Treasury has issued regulations requiring the allocation of 



172 


State income taxes or income based franchise taxes to foreign source income if tax- 
abie income determined under State iaw exceeds Federai taxabie income. Because 
of the often substantiai variances between these two tax bases, U.S. taxpayers may 
be subject to doubie taxation because foreign taxes attributabie to the foreign in- 
come that is eiiminated by the misaiiocation of State taxes wiii not offset U.S. tax 
on woridwide income. State income taxes are a cost of doing business in a particuiar 
State and generaiiy have nothing to do with a U.S. taxpayer's foreign operations: 
they shouid affect oniy income generated from activities within the State. From a 
technicai standpoint, the aiiocation ruie is defective because it compares State tax- 
abie income with Federai taxabie income; the respective regimes may differ substan- 
tiaiiy as to inciusiveness and timing. This misaiiocation therefore shouid be aboi- 
ished. 

Overreaching Treasury Regulations on Dual Consolidated Losses. IRC Section 
1503(d) was designed to forestaii a perceived abuse where a U.S. affiiiate's net oper- 
ating ioss was not oniy deducted against the income of another U.S. company but 
under a foreign tax regime aiso reduced the income of a foreign affiiiate. That Sec- 
tion authorizes reguiations to except U.S. corporations from this ioss disaiiowance 
to the extent the iosses do not offset the income of another foreign corporation under 
the foreign tax iaw. Treasury has issued a reguiation pursuant to which practicaiiy 
every foreign business operation of a U.S. corporation jeopardizes the deduction of 
a ioss from the foreign venture for the U.S. tax consolidation unless unreasonable 
administrative undertakings are stipulated. For example, a U.S. consolidated return 
corporation with foreign nexus, including a mere interest in a foreign partnership, 
can use a loss in computing consolidated return income only if it enters into a bur- 
densome agreement with the IRS which requires continuous monitoring and in 
many cases annual reporting. In light of the burdensome and overreaching adminis- 
trative rule, the statute should limit loss disallowance to the targeted abuse and 
preempt the current regulatory overkill. 

B. Reliet from Shareholders' CurrentTaxation ofCFC Earnings 

Repeal the Byzantine High-Tax Kick-Out According to FTC basket rules, other- 
wise passive income is not included in the passive FTC basket if it is subject to a 
foreign tax rate in excess of the U.S. rate. The implementing regulations impose a 
regime that defies a brief summary. 

These labyrinthine rules add enormous complexity. The computation of sub- 
groups and sub-baskets, together with the various sets of rules for determining the 
amount of tax on a particular type of income, impose inordinate burdens on the for- 
eign and domestic tax personnel of U.S. multi-national corporations. 

The primary reason for the separate passive income basket is the perceived easy 
mobility into low tax jurisdiction. If this goal is not realized, there is no reason to 
mingle passive income with operating income, because the underlying characteristic 
of mobility and its passive character remains. "Once passive income, always passive 
income." Accordingly, the "high-tax kick-out" should be repealed. 

E&P for Sub-part F Should be Based on GAAP Financial Statements. Under cur- 
rent rules, for the taxation of the US shareholder, E&P of foreign corporations have 
to be determined according to US tax accounting rules. The accounting personnel 
and accounting systems of foreign subsidiaries typically do not allow simple adjust- 
ments to US tax books. Proposed regulations under Code S964 recognize the unreal- 
istic nature of such a requirement and grant relief from most book to tax adjust- 
ment. Unfortunately, this relief— because of a perceived lack of statutory author- 
ity-does not extend to the determination of E&P in connection with computing 
whether or not there is a deemed distribution of subpart F income that may have 
been realized by theCFC. 

Nevertheless, the reasons for the dispensation from the book to tax adjustments 
under the proposed Section 964 regulations apply equally in connection with sub- 
part F. Without extension of the relief to the E&P computation for subpart F pur- 
poses, the Section 964 relief is meaningless. Because of the possibility that a CFC 
may realize income of the type that may give rise to subpart F income it has to 
track its E&P under current rules according to US tax accounting principles. 

A uniform recognition of financial statements of CFCs for all purposes of the tax- 
ation of its US shareholders would remove an unnecessary, costly compliance fea- 
ture [See Section 104 of The I nternational Tax Simplification for American Competi- 
tiveness Act of 1999]. 

Anti -Deferral Rules Should Not Be Applied To Pipeline Transportation. Under 
Code Section 954(g), a CFC's foreign base company oil related income (FBCORI , i.e, 
a CFC's FORI derived other than in a country of extraction or consumption) in- 
cludes pipeline transportation income. In the past such income was typically derived 



173 


as integral part of downstream oil and gas operation (processing, refining, and mar- 
keting). 

Large pipeline projects through non-producing countries without further proc- 
essing are a recent phenomenon. The original ratio legis behind the FBCORI cat- 
egory does not apply to such pipeline transportation. The location is not subject to 
tax consideration but is controlled by the most feasible connection between produc- 
tion site and intended naval transshipping or consumption point, taking into ac- 
count construction and maintenance cost, as well as political considerations. 

Accordingly, income from carrying oil and gas in a pipeline through a country 
should be excepted from FBCORI [See Section 105 of The International Tax Sim- 
plification for American Competitiveness Act of 1999]. 

Treat European Community as Single Country. In recognition of economic reali- 
ties, all countries comprising the European Community (EC) should be treated as 
a single country for purposes of the subpart F rules on foreign base company sales 
income and foreign base company service income. Where the perceived taint of tax 
arbitrage through cross-border transactions is missing, US tax rules except what 
would otherwise be subpart F income if derived from transactions within the CFC's 
country of incorporation. The same rationale should applies in excepting trans- 
actions to the unified market of the EC nations, representing customs and monetary 
unity with the goal of tax harmonization. This would be an important step in the 
reduction of the disadvantage CFCs experience in the common market vis a vis their 
EC based competitors. 

The recognition of the EC as one country should also apply to the "same country" 
exception FBCORI. Without such modification, the EC's recognition as one country 
would not carry over into refining, distribution, and marketing of oil and gas as well 
as their primary products. For example, a CFC's sale in Germany of gasoline from 
its refinery in The Netherlands would continue to be tainted, even though the trans- 
action takes place within the borders of what now is recognized as one economy 
[The problem is recognized in the study commissioned under Section 102 of The 
I nternational Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act of 1999]. 

IV. Provisions Common to FTC and Anti-Deferral Rules 

Exempt Foreign Operations of Foreign Persons from the Uniform Capitalization 
Rules 

The Uniform Capitalization Rules (UN I CAP) of Code Section 263A are designed 
to assure that (1) all production cost are capitalized and (2) the same rules apply 
to the production activities of all industries. Perceived tax accounting differences 
among industries and activities were seen as unwelcome factors in resource alloca- 
tion and structural alignments. Moreover, it was argued that a better matching of 
income and expenses would also prevent unwarranted deferral of income taxes. 

The application of UNICAP to foreign operations of foreign persons was not a con- 
cern of Congress. It has been the Service's failure to exercise its regulatory discre- 
tion which still subjects foreign operations of foreign persons to UNICAP. 

An exemption from UNICAP would bring simplicity. It would not violate equity. 
Any attempt to equalize tax postures of foreign persons with respect to foreign oper- 
ations is futile because of the ever changing tax regimes in the host countries. Be- 
cause of excess FTCs it would be revenue neutral. Because of a relief from compli- 
ance cost, the exemption would promote competitiveness [See Section 302 of The 
I nternational Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act of 1999]. 

V. Conclusions 

The risk of double taxation presented (1) by restrictions on the use of FTC and 
(2) by the current taxation to the U.S. shareholder of certain CFC income regardless 
of distribution, continues to adversely affect the ability of U.S. businesses to com- 
pete worldwide. The complexity of the U.S. tax rules obfuscate tax planning and in- 
troduce often substantial risks, hindering effective capital investment. Simplifica- 
tion, removal of inequitable and ineffective rules, and alignment with today's global 
economy would encourage compliance, facilitate the free flow of capital, and improve 
the competitive position of U.S. multinational concerns. The passage of The Inter- 
national Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act of 1999 would go a 
long way to the realization of these goals. 



174 


Statement of Rod Paige, Council of the Great City Schools, and 
Superintendent of Houston Public Schools 

Mr. Chairman, Congressman Rangel, and members of the Ways and Means Com- 
mittee, I am Rod Paige, Superintendent of the Houston Public Schools. I am submit- 
ting testimony regarding the significant need for major federal school infrastructure 
aid on behalf the Houston Public Schools and the Council of the Great City Schools, 
the coalition of some fifty of the largest central city school districts of the nation. 

It has been five years since the General Accounting Office's study of school infra- 
structure needs garnered national attention. To the surprise of many, the school in- 
frastructure inadequacies were found to be nearly universal, though not unexpect- 
edly more severe in urban schools. A $112 billion backlog of serious infrastructure 
needs was identified back in 1994. But despite the efforts of some states, and school 
districts like Houston committing significant resources to address our most severe 
facility problems, the remainder of the $112 billion historic backlog still remains. 
In fact, the wave of new school enrollments from the so-called "baby boom echo" 
have lifted the estimated national school infrastructure needs to approximately $200 
billion as this century comes to a close. 

Houston is very proud that our voters elected to finance a $678 million bond au- 
thority in 1998 by a 73% to 27% vote. I believe that this represents a renewed vote 
of confidence in our public schools after a narrow defeat of a previous bond authority 
in 1996. However, even though Houston will be spending over $1/2 billion in the 
next 3 years, we have not addressed the full range of our school facility needs. Our 
facilities staff projects the need for over $800 million in additional funds to meet 
our current rquirements. In fact, during a review of needs before our bond election, 
we estimated that unless we are able to address our needs in deferred maintenance 
and renovations, in 10 years time the cost to repair the schools would approach re- 
placement value. At that time, it is unlikely we would ever catch up with the prob- 
lem. Infrastructure problems if not addressed in a timely manner, may be the most 
serious facilities problem facing large urban district now and certainly in the future. 

The State of Texas has done little to assist districts such as Houston over the 
years. Although the State does have an education fund which is used to help obtain 
higher bond ratings, little money has been put into the big districts for facilities. 
While we are continuing to work for the full inclusion of facilities funding into the 
State's school funding laws and some movement in that direction occurred this year, 

I see little hope that the State will soon come to our aid in any significant manner. 

In order to address the massive national school facility needs, substantial partici- 
pation is critical not only from our local public schools, but also from our state and 
our national governments. A $200 billion gap cannot be closed without a significant 
financial commitment from all levels. The Houston Public Schools and the Council 
of the Great City Schools, therefore, support a major federal investment to close a 
sizable portion of this national school facilities gap. 

It also is essential to optimize the volume and the timeliness of school construc- 
tion and renovation generated by each federal aid dollar, and that the communities 
with the highest concentrations of poor are assured of receiving the greatest amount 
of assistance. 

There are a variety of school infrastructure assistance bills pending before both 
houses of the Congress. I would like to address a few of these Iqislative proposals 
using Houston as an example: 

Tax Subsidized, Zero Interest School Facility Bonds 

There are a number of tax-subsidized, zero-interest school facility bond proposals 
pending in both houses of Congress with the major difference found primarily in the 
distribution formulas of the tax subsidizes. Cong. Rangel's H.R. 1660, Cong. J ohn- 
son's H.R. 1760, and Sen. Lautenberg's S. 223, each provide tax credits in lieu of 
interest income to the holders of qualified school facility bonds, thus allowing school 
districts to pay back these infrastructure bonds without the normally associated in- 
terest costs of such financing. This mechanism could cut the cost of school construc- 
tion financing by nearly half. Both H.R. 1660 and S. 223 would ensure that the 
school districts with the largest number of low-income children would receive a sub- 
stantial benefit from these tax incentives. Houston would be authorized to issue 
$240 million under H.R. 1660 and $168 million under S. 223 in these bonds. H.R 
1760 would leave allocations for Houston and other school districts with the highest 
numbers of poor children in the nation to the political whims of their states— an 
historically inquitable position. The tax credit mechanism in these three bills 



175 


would have a five-year federal budget impact of approximately $3.5 billion, but 
would leverage approximately $25 billion in school construction and renovation. 

Arbitrage Spend-down Flexibility 

There are also a number of legislative proposals, including Cong. Goodling’s FI.R. 
2, Cong. Dunn's FI.R. 1084, and Sen. Graham's S. 526, which would extend the 
spend-down restrictions on safe harbor arbitrage income from two years to four 
years, and would increase the small issuer exception to $15 or $20 million. These 
arbitrage flexibility proposals would have a five-year federal budget impact of ap- 
proximately $1.4 billion. Using our recent $678 million Flouston bond issue as an 
example, under current market conditions 28 basis points are being realized by in- 
vesting our unexpended funds. Therefore, the maximum annual benefit for Flouston 
on a $678 million issue would be about $1.9 million in arbitrage. 

Tax Exempt Private Activity Bonds for School Construction 

Another legislative proposal, included in Sen. Graham's S. 526, is the proposed 
use of tax exempt private activity bonds for school construction purposes. A new $10 
per capita volume limit would be authorized for each state to allow private entities 
to finance the development of schools through these tax-exempt instruments. This 
private activity bond proposal would have a five-year federal budget impact of ap- 
proximately $1.2 billion. Though the allocation of these tax-exempt bonds would be 
at the discretion of the state, Flouston could issue nearly $20 million in bonds, if 
the state allotted us our per capita share of the state's allotment. Operationally, the 
school district would lease the school facility from the private developer until the 
bond was paid, and then the school would be turned over to the school district. Un- 
fortunately, most school districts would have to make lease payments out of their 
operating budgets, thus diluting available funds for teacher compensation, instruc- 
tional materials, computers, and even facility maintenance. Based on market condi- 
tions, we would expect lease payments to be at higher rates than would traditional 
bonds. The amount of the school lease payments appears to be at the discretion of 
the private developers. 

Obviously, Flouston would be glad to accept all the school infrastructure assist- 
ance that Congress can provide. But realistically all of these legislative proposals 
cannot be enacted with limited federal resources. Therefore, Congress should spend 
its federal budget resources as efficiently and effectively as possible— in effect secur- 
ing the most school construction for the buck. From our analysis, FI.R 1660 would 
subsidize $240 million of school construction bonds for Flouston at a cost of five-year 
$3.5 billion to the federal treasury. At one-third to two-fifths of the costs to the 
Treasury, neither arbitrage reform nor private activity bonds would provide one- 
tenth of this level of school facility aid. Qualified school facility bonds, in our opin- 
ion, represent the approach to federal aid that will have a truly consequential im- 
pact on meeting the infrastructure needs of Flouston and other large urban high 
poverty districts. Under a similar FI.R. 1776, Flouston would not be assured of re- 
ceiving any assistance at all, as the state would have total discretion over the alloca- 
tion of this federal assistance— a major weakness from out perspective. 

Mr. Chairman, there is a clear link between proper school facilities and improved 
educational achievement. Flow can we hold our children accountable for educational 
progress, if their local, state and national leaders are not providing them with mod- 
ern schools and the tools needed for success? Thank you for focusing the attention 
of the Committee on this issue during the hearing process. It is encouraging that 
the Committee is looking at the school facility needs of the nation. On behalf of the 
Flouston Public Schools and our colleagues in the other Great City Schools, I urge 
the Committee to include in the upcoming tax bill at least $3 to $4 billion in imme- 
diate subsidies that will leverage $25 to $30 billion in new school infrastructure im- 
provements. Thank you for the opportunity to submit testimony for the Committee 
hearing record. 



176 


Crowley Maritime Corporation 
Washington, D.C., 20004 

J une24, 1999 

Hon. Bill Archer, Chairman, 

House Ways & Means Committee 
Washington, DC. 

Re: J une 30 Hearing on I nternationai Tax Ruies— Statement of Crowiey Maritime 
Corporation 

Dear Chairman Archer: 

Crowiey Maritime Corp. (Crowiey) commends the Chairman and committee for 
hoiding this hearing, and appreciates the opportunity to submit this statement on 
the subject of internationai tax ruies. Our statement consists of this ietter and the 
attached presentation on "Shipping IncomeTax Reform" given iast September at the 
nationai meeting of the Propeiier Ciub of the United States. We hope soon to pro- 
vide a suppiementai statement updating some of the information in the attached 
presentation. 

We have aiso discussed these issues with others who wiii be submitting orai testi- 
mony at the hearing, inciuding Mr. Peter Finnerty of Sea-Land Service, Inc, and 
Prof. Warren Dean. We anticipate generai agreement with their testimony, and sub- 
mit this s^arate statement oniy because of the importance of these issues and the 
urgency with which they need to be addressed. 

By way of background, Crowiey (headquartered in Oakiand) is the second-iargest 
American shipping company. Crowiey subsidiary Crowiey American Transport, Inc. 
(CATI) (based in J acksonviiie) is a major regionai iiner operator, offering the most 
comprehensive container services to Latin America. Other operating subsidiaries in- 
dude Crowiey Marine Services, Inc, a diversified marine contractor, Crowiey Petro- 
ieum Transport, Inc. (both based in Seattie), and Crowiey Marine Transport, Inc. 
(based in Houston). 

As discussed in the attached presentation, tax reform iegisiation is urgentiy need- 
ed to ievel the piaying fieid for American carriers competing against foreign carriers, 
and to provide an environment in which American citizens wiii maintain and ex- 
pand their investments in the maritime industry. According toj ournai of Commerce 
PIERS data, nine of the top ten iiner shipping companies carrying America's im- 
ports and exports are foreign carriers (eight of which are based in Asia). Moreover, 
according to Maritime Administration data, the U.S. fiag iiner companies' share of 
the U.S. import-export market feii by about 50% between 1990 and 1996. As others 
have demonstrated, American citizen controi of the worid's commerdai fieet feii by 
about 80% between 1975 (the iast year in which American carriers were taxed about 
the same as foreign carriers) and 1996. 

It must be emphasized that the deciine of America's shipping companies has noth- 
ing to do with any comparative advantage foreign carriers have over American car- 
riers. In fact, given nondiscri minatory government poiicies, and recognizing that 
American carriers are based in the worid's iargest trading nation, American carriers 
iikely wouid have an inherent competitive advantage over foreign-based carriers if 
the market for internationai shipping services weretotaiiy free of government infiu- 
ence. 

As we aii know, however, many governments subsidize shipping in a wide variety 
of ways and for many reasons. American subsidies over the past quarter-century, 
for good and sufficient reasons, have been focussed on maintaining a fieet of US- 
fiag vesseis. Subsidies wouid not be needed for American shipping companies (as 
distinct from their US-fiag fieets) except for the fact that foreign governments, 
through income tax policy, subsidize their shipping companies. An internal Crowley 
study shows that, in 1996, American carriers paid more than 45% of their profits 
in income taxes, whileforeign carriers received a net tax credit of about 2%. 

This huge disparity in bottom line earnings goes a long way in explaining why 
it is that American carriers have sold out to foreign competitors. Given their inher- 
ent competitive advantage over foreign carriers, the loss of American shipping com- 
panies reflects the utter failure of American tax policy in the international arena. 
Thousands of high-paying jobs have been lost, jobs that should, in a free market, 
go to Americans. Our nation's security has been harmed as the amount and reli- 
ability of sealift available for military contingencies is reduced. Our economic secu- 
rity is degraded as foreign firms exert total control over the movement of our im- 
ports and exports. 



177 


Legislation that takes important steps toward correcting this tax disadvantage 
has been introduced. As a matter of sound tax policy, and to address clear threats 
to our nation's military and economic security, we strongly urge that it be enacted 
as quickly as possible. 

Respectfully Submitted, 

Michael G. Roberts 
Vice President, Government Relations 


Shipping Income Tax Reform 

Good morning and thank you for including me in this discussion of legislation af- 
fecting the maritime industry. Two years ago last week, at the end of the 104th 
Congress, we celebrated passage of the Maritime Security Act. The MSP saved what 
was surely one of the most endangered species existing in the world's oceans— 
American mariners sailing on commercial ships in international trades. With the 
clock running out on the existing government support programs, enactment of MSP 
was essential— in the words of Congressman Herb Bateman, a matter of the very 
survival of the American mariner in international trade. The entire maritime indus- 
try— liner carriers, non-liner carriers, unions, shipbuilders, ports— the entire indus- 
try pulled together and pushed MSP through Congress despite long odds. While 
MSP needs to be expanded and made permanent, its passage has helped assure the 
survival of a critical part of the American maritime industry. 

We are now confronted, as we move toward the 106th Congress, with the threat- 
ened extinction of another critical part of our industry— the American shipping com- 
pany operating in international trade. According to the U.S. Maritime Administra- 
tion, American liner carriers' share of the market for moving U.S. import and export 
cargoes fell by almost half between 1990 and 1996, from over 17% of the market 
in 1990, to less than 9% in 1996. As the first slide shows, that's a huge and precipi- 
tous drop, an exodus that starts from an already unacceptably low level of U.S. car- 
rier participation. Let me add that, while this slide focuses on liner cargoes, I under- 
stand that U.S. carriers' share of non-liner cargoes is even more dismal— in the one 
to three percent range. 

We can assess the strength of American shipping companies not only on the basis 
of our share of the cargo market, but also based on the vessel capacity we own or 
operate. With this group I don't need to go into the number of U.S. flag vessels re- 
maining. We know the U.S. flag fleet operated in international trades has been in 
long term decline. It is approaching the 47 ships in the MSP, and it will likely ex- 
pand only if and when the government decides to expand MSP. 

Slide 2 shows the decline in U.S. controlled tonnage flying foreign flags of conven- 
ience. And let me at this point touch on the issue of U.S. carriers operating foreign 
flags of convenience vessels. We all want to see as many ships as possible flying 
the U.S. flag and manned by U.S. crews. That's one of the central purposes of this 
organization. But unless and until we are able to eliminate the huge cost advan- 
tages available to flag of convenience vessels, we have to fully reconcile ourselves, 
as most of us have, to the fact that U.S. carriers must have the same ability to oper- 
ate flag of convenience vessels as do our foreign competitors. To the extent we limit 
or condition U.S. carriers' rights in this regard (and not also limit or condition for- 
eign carriers' rights), we don't stop or reduce flag of convenience shipping one bit. 
We simply shift it to foreign carriers instead of U.S. shipping companies. And U.S. 
shipping companies become more and more irrelevant. 

This is not in any way meant as an endorsement of flag of convenience shipping. 
On the contrary, I thoroughly and completely agree that flag of convenience ship- 
ping fosters a "culture of evasion" that hurts the entire industry. David Cockroft, 
one of the leaders of the International Transport Workers Federation, was a little 
more blunt when he said the system "stinks," and I agree with that, too. 

But as we all know, we have tried for decades to come up with a way to stop for- 
eign flags of convenience, and as this chart shows, all we've succeeded in doing is 
to take Americans out of the business while flag of convenience shipping continues 
to grow. In 1975, U.S. carriers owned about 22 million of the 85 million gross reg- 
istered tons in the world flag of convenience fleet. This accounted for about 26% of 
the world fleet. By 1996, the world flag of convenience fleet had almost tripled, to 
241 million tons, while U.S. carrier ownership fell almost in half. The next slide 
shows what this means on a percentage basis, as American carriers' share of that 
fleet fell in 1996 to one-fifth the level it was in 1975. 

So it's not a pretty picture, whether you look at cargo flows or vessel ownership. 
America, the world's largest trading nation, is almost a non-factor in the business 
of transporting its imports and exports. 



178 


Let me take a few minutes to talk now about why it is we have seen such a stark 
decline in the American shipping industry, and then get into what we might con- 
sider doing about it. First, let's be clear as to what is not the cause of our decline. 
It is not because we are incompetent. Looking at the liner sector, Sea-Land is the 
largest container shipping company serving the United States. Not the most profit- 
able, but the biggest. Crowley is not the most profitable nor the biggest, but it is 
big and has consistently been rated the "Best of the Best" of the world's shipping 
companies. Lest this seem too much like a plug, APL has for many years been one 
of the world's strongest container lines, and other American shipping companies 
have been similarly well-managed. Even our biggest detractor, Rob Quartel, has 
conceded that Americans are the best in the world at this business. 

So I'm pleased to report that we're not stupid and incompetent. And I don't be- 
lieve the decline of our industry results from a comparative cost advantage that for- 
eign carriers enjoy over U.S. carriers. Certainly in the liner sector, most costs are 
simply not affected by the nationality of the shipping company. With respect to ves- 
sel costs, which account for about one-fifth of total costs, American carriers oper- 
ating U.S. flag MSP ships or foreign flag charters can be fully cost competitive. The 
remaining portion of liner operating costs, consisting of administration and over- 
head, does vary by nationality of the carrier, according to living costs in the area 
where these services are provided. But with headquarters located in places like 
J acksonvi 1 1 e or Charlotte, American carriers actually have a cost advantage over for- 
eign carriers operating out of Tokyo or Flong Kong or London. 

So what is the problem, why is the American shipping industry internationally 
in such a state of decline if not because of incompetence or cost disadvantages? The 
answer, as a matter of simple logic, must be profitability. The prices we charge keep 
going down, revenues are inadequate and returns, or profitability, is unacceptably 
low. This next slide, from Mercer Management, shows operating margins for the 
liner shipping industry compared to the operating margins for companies included 
in the Standard & Poors 500. As you can see, profits for the 24 liner shipping com- 
panies surveyed consistently averaged between one-third and one-half of the aver- 
age profits earned by S&P 500 companies. 

The un profitability of the international liner industry can be traced, at least in 
substantial part, to two factors. First is overcapacity, which is attributable in part 
to the cyclical nature of the business, but also to the fact that governments love to 
subsidize the building of ships. Too many ships are built not because of market de- 
mand for transportation services, but because of the desire primarily of foreign gov- 
ernments to put their people to work building ships. Those of us in the ship oper- 
ating business are left to deal with this mess and try to make a living with too 
much capacity in our markets. Flopefully, the OECD Shipbuilding Agreement or 
something like it will be implemented so that capacity in the shipping business can 
settle back toward a more rational, market-based level. 

Another reason for unprofitability, at least in the liner sector, is a hyper-competi- 
tive market structure. Flaving 15 or 20 shipping companies doing the same thing 
in the same markets is not efficient nor conducive to rational business decision mak- 
ing, especially when some of the state-owned competitors are not fully motivated to 
making decent profits. Industry consolidation may be painful, but it is needed and 
is likely, particularly given the imminent enactment of the Ocean Shipping Reform 
Act. Consolidation, we hope, will eventually produce a more stable market structure 
and better profit margins. 

These factors help explain why the industry as a whole is not profitable, but not 
why it is apparently less profitable for American carriers than for foreign carriers. 
Why is it, then, that foreign carriers are growing while American carriers decline 
if foreign carriers (1) have no cost advantage, (2) have no quality advantage, and 
(3) foreign investors apparently have the same incentive as Americans to seek high- 
er investment returns elsewhere? Who can say for sure, but the one factor that we 
can readily identify and that goes a long way in explaining this mystery, is income 
taxes. To be clear. I'm talking about income taxes, below-the-line taxes assessed 
after all the costs and above-the-line tax benefits— accelerated depreciation, gen- 
erous deductions, etc.,— are taken out of the revenues. American carriers pay income 
tax at a base rate of 36%. Most foreign carriers pay little or no income tax. The 
next slide is an analysis we've done in-house using the actual financial statements 
of nine liner carriers— three American, six foreign. While a larger sample of finan- 
cial statements needs to be analyzed, even this small sample absolutely illustrates 
the point. On average, the foreign carriers sampled got a net tax credit in 1996, 
while American carriers paid over 45% of their profits to Uncle Sam. In 1997, it was 
about 7% foreign income tax liability versus 43% for the Americans. 

What this all means is that, if the industry has an average profit margin of say 
6%, the effective rate of return for foreign investors may range from 8% to 11% de- 



179 


pending on foreign income tax rates. Considering that some companies in some 
years do much better than 6%, it's not a bad return if you're a foreign carrier paying 
no income tax. Certainiy, the incentive for foreign investors to ieave the industry 
is much iess than for American investors. In short, it is the income tax disadvan- 
tage, more than any other factor that I can identify, that expiains the current condi- 
tion of the American shipping industry. In fact, I understand that income tax iiabii- 
ity piayed a crudai— perhaps decisive— roie in the decision to merge APL into NOL 
instead of the other way around. 

We've got to fix this probiem, and there are any number of ways to do it. Most 
of the attention has centered around restoring Subpart F tax deferrai, which untii 
1986 provided a means for American carriers to defer their income tax iiabiiity on 
shipping income earned using foreign fiag vessels. Congressmen Shaw and J efferson 
have introduced iegisiation that wouid restore the Subpart F exemption, but im- 
prove on it by aiiowing tax deferred money to be invested in U.S. fiag shipping. 
Their biii has broad but not unanimous support within the industry. A variation on 
this approach wouid not just aiiow tax deferred money to be reinvested in U.S. fiag 
shipping, but require such reinvestment as a condition for receiving tax deferrai on 
some or aii of the foreign fiag earnings. Stiii another approach wouid not invoive 
Subpart F at aii, but wouid simpiy adjust the income tax rates of American shipping 
companies engaged exciusiveiy in internationai trade to match the average tax rates 
of our foreign competitors. 

I'm not here today to suggest a specific solution to the probiem. But I wouid iike 
to do two things. First, is to express the hope that the top ieadership of the mari- 
time industry— primariiy seagoing unions and shipping companies— wiii commit to 
make a concentrated effort over the next severai months untii we find a solution 
to this problem. It took a long time, but the entire industry eventually came to- 
gether over MSP and we got a program that has helped insure the survival of Amer- 
ican mariners. We need to make the same commitment to assure the survival of 
American shipping companies, and I am hopeful and optimistic that we will. 

Secondly, I'd like to suggest at least a couple of principles that would help guide 
our work. There are undoubtedly others, but the two that come to my mind are as 
follows: 

First, "Foreign income tax advantages harm all American shipping companies in 
international trade, and must be addressed on an industry wide basis." We simply 
cannot afford to lose time while companies or unions jockey for advantage against 
one another over this issue. If we succeed in fixing the problem, the pie will grow 
maybe a lot and everyone's sustainable, long-term benefit will far exceed what 
might be gained or lost by attempting to rig the system. Let's not beat each other 
up, but let's be fair and work together for tax equity. 

Secondly, 'The solution to this problem must avoid placing burdens on American 
carriers that are not faced by their foreign competitors." This is the whole point of 
the exercise. If we don't stick to that very basic and obvious and important prin- 
ciple, we run a real risk of getting nowhere, or passing legislation that will accom- 
plish nothing, and seethefinal loss of what's left of our industry. 

Thank you very much for your attention, and I 'd be happy to hear your comments 
and answer your questions. 

[Charts are being retained in committee filed.] 


Ernst & Young LLP 
Washington, D.C., 20036 

J uly 7, 1999 

FI on. Bill Archer, Chairman 
Flouse Committee on Ways and Means 
Washington, D.C. 

Dear Mr. Chairman: 

We are pleased have an opportunity to share with the Committee on Ways and 
Means our views on an issue of vital importance to high technology businesses— 
the tax rules regarding bona fide research and development ("R&D") cost sharing 
arrangements. We are concerned that recent interpretations of the R&D cost shar- 
ing rules by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") will make leading edge U.S. based 
companies less competitive than their foreign counterparts and, in some cases, will 
have the effect of encouraging such companies to relocate R&D activities outside the 
United States. We request that this letter be made part of the formal record of the 
Committee's J une 30, 1999, hearing to examine the effect of U.S. tax rules on the 



180 


competitiveness of U.S. businesses as weli as . . the policies (tax or otherwise) 
our international tax rules ought to reflect and implement." 

Background 

The proper allocation of income resulting from research and development activi- 
ties, and the derivation of benefit from the use of valuable intangible property devel- 
oped from those activities, has been a continuing source of controversy between the 
IRS and taxpayers, especially when an affiliate of a U.S. multinational company is 
using the intangible property in a low tax jurisdiction. Prior to 1984, the IRS had 
adopted an administrative ruling position that allowed intangible property devel- 
oped in the U.S. to be transferred in a tax-free transaction under Internal Revenue 
Code ("IRC") section 367 to a foreign affiliate of a U.S. taxpayer provided that the 
intangible property was not used to create products destined for the U.S. market. 
In 1984, Congress ended this practice by enacting section 367(d), which requires 
arm's length taxable compensation on intercompany transfers of intangible property. 

As part of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, Congress amended section 482 by adding 
a sentence that provides, "I n the case of any transfer (or license) of intangible prop- 
erty . . . , the income with respect to such transfer or license shall be commensurate 
with the income attributable to the intangible." The legislative history to this provi- 
sion indicated that by enacting the "commensurate with income" provision. Congress 
did not intend to prohibit use of bona fide R&D cost-sharing agreements, provided 
that such agreements were structured consistently with the intent of the provision. 

Under a cost sharing agreement, related parties agree in advance to share the fi- 
nancial risk (i.e., the costs) of R&D activities in return for agreed-upon rights to ex- 
ploit any intangible property developed as a result of the R&D. Cost sharing pay- 
ments received by a U.S. party conducting R&D reduce the deductible amount of 
R&D expense, while cost sharing payments made by a U.S. taxpayer are a deduct- 
ible expense. A U.S. multi-national company conducting R&D in the U.S. that is a 
party to a cost sharing arrangement with a foreign affiliate gives up the right to 
current R&D deductions to the extent of the cost sharing payment. In return, the 
foreign affiliate attains the right to exploit any valuable intangible property created 
without further payment (other than its annual obligation to fund additional R&D 
under the cost sharing agreement). 

The 1989 Treasury/IRS White Paper on Transfer Pricing and the 1996 cost shar- 
ing regulations enunciated several principles that ought to be taken into account if 
a cost sharing arrangement was to meet the criteria of the commensurate with in- 
come provision. These principles included the following: 

• Costs of R&D should be shared proportionately based upon expected benefits to 
be earned by the participants. 

• Costs should include direct and indirect operating expenses attributable to the 
covered R&D. 

• Provisions should be made in the arrangement to account for material changes 
in actual benefits from expected benefits. 

• Participants entering into a cost sharing arrangement should pay an arm's 
length amount for preexisting and in process R&D (a "buy in") that may take the 
form of a declining arm's length royalty. 

Subsequent to enactment of the "commensurate with income" provision, the IRS 
engaged in a series of litigation challenging transfers of intangible property with 
limited success. These cases have involved such industries and products as contact 
lenses, medical equipment, semiconductors and computer disk drives. ^ The IRS's 
typical position in these cases is to limit the profitability of the offshore affiliate to 
a limited function contract manufacturer's profit and to ignore the fact that arm's 
length parties who make substantial investments to exploit technologies created by 
another expect to receive a reasonable share of the profits to be earned from exploit- 
ing the intangible property. 

In order to avoid the costs^ and risks inherent in licensing intangible property 
for which no exact comparable licensing transactions exist, many taxpayers have en- 
tered into cost sharing agreements. Until recently, most taxpayers believed that 
these agreements would be respected as bona fide by the IRS provided there was 
a reasonable buy-in payment and that U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Prin- 


iBausch & tomb (contact lenses); Perkin Elmer (medical equipment); National Semiconductor 
(semiconductors); Seagate (disk drives). 

^The recent IRS "Report on the Application and Administration of Section 482 "estimates IRS 
litigation costs in two recent cases at $4.6 million and $2.1 million. Taxpayer costs were much 
higher. 



181 


ciples ("GAAP") R&D expenses were shared based upon reasonably expected bene- 
fits of the R&D activity the costs of which were being shared. 

The Issue 

The IRS National Office has recently advanced two new positions for evaluating 
bona fide cost sharing arrangements that have the effect of making the tax cost of 
such arrangements so high that they are uneconomical for U.S. technology-intensive 
companies. These positions are that: 

• Costs to be shared should include stock option "expense" attributed to R&D ac- 
tivities. 

• A buy-in payment should be measured either by the taxpayer's total market 
capitalization less the value of its book assets or by reference to premiums in value 
over book assets in recent M & A transactions. 

Why the IRS's Positions are Unwise Tax Policy 

• The IRS's positions are technically insupportable and conflict with the legisla- 
tive support for cost sharing. 

Congress recognized in the 1986 Tax Reform Act that bona fide R&D cost sharing 
arrangements should be available as an alternative to licensing under the commen- 
surate with income standard. The abuse that Congress sought to eliminate in the 
1986 Act (and in 1984) was that technology developed in the U.S. was being trans- 
ferred outside the U.S. for no consideration to the U.S. developer. However, Con- 
gress neither prohibited transfers of intangible property outside the U.S., nor did 
it outlaw the availability of cost sharing arrangements. 

No party at arm's length would enter into a technology development (cost sharing) 
arrangement where it was required to buy into the agreement by paying a share 
of the U.S. developer's market capitalization. In addition, at any moment, in-time 
market capitalization of an individual company is profoundly affected by the intrin- 
sic volatility of the overall market; the market's view of the industry and the com- 
pany's overall competitive position within that industry: and the anticipated long- 
term earnings power of the company which extends far beyond the useful life of its 
current technology or other intangibles. Thus, market capitalization value is not a 
good benchmark upon which to base a buy-in payment. Furthermore, accounting 
goodwill created in an acquisition is as much a measurement of post-merger synergy 
of the two companies as it is a measure of the intangibles of the acquired company. 

R&D cost sharing is not an uncommon risk sharing arrangement between unre- 
lated joint parties, especially in technology-driven industries. We have never ob- 
served an instance in which unrelated parties have agreed to cost share the com- 
pensation element (i.e., the difference between the fair market value of the stock 
and the exercise price) of stock options attributable to R&D employees, nor do we 
think unrelated parties would even consider sharing such an unpredictable, non- 
cash expense. Thus, we believe that the IRS's position on stock option expense as 
it relates to cost sharing is non-arm's length. 

• These positions will lead to double taxation of U.S. multinationals. 

In our experience, the conventional arm's length methods, all of which are based 
on varying degrees of comparability in third-party transactions, are still the inter- 
national norm for settling cross-border disputes regarding intercompany compensa- 
tion for the use of intangibles. Market capitalization for intangibles is clearly uncon- 
ventional. As a result, a U.S. government position based on market capitalization 
values will lead to irreconcilable differences in competent authority proceedings re- 
sulting in higher incidents of double taxation of U.S. multinationals. 

In a similar vein, the treatment of stock option exercises varies by country. For 
example, the spread between the fair market value of the option and the exercise 
price in not the measure of compensation in all countries, nor is the employee's ex- 
ercise the event which gives rise to the compensation in all countries. Accordingly, 
even in the unlikely event that a foreign country can be persuaded that arm's length 
parties would incorporate a stock option additive into a cost sharing equation, it is 
unlikely that the foreign country would agree on the U.S. definition of the timing 
or amount. Thus, this stock option position, if pursued by the IRS, will also inevi- 
tably lead to double taxation of U.S. multinationals. 

• These positions may encourage U.S. companies to move R&D out of the U.S. 

Simply put, U.S. multinationals just could not afford the tax cost of licensing or 

transferring intangibles to affiliates if today's market capitalization values became 
a proxy for the required arm's length consideration. A U.S. tax-induced limitation 
on the deployment of intangibles will undoubtedly hurt U.S. competitiveness. It 
may, in fact, encourage U.S. multinationals to move their R&D activities outside the 
U.S. where the resulting intangibles can be exploited in a far more tax effective 



182 


manner. Many tax have jurisdictions aiready offer significant incentives to iocate 
R&D in their countries; the I RS position wiii add to those existing incentives. 

Compensation for quaiified U.S. engineers is aiready among the highest in the 
worid. Stock options have become a common incentive for attracting and retaining 
U.S. engineers in this highiy competitive market piace. Cieariy, the tax deductibie 
portion of the stock option spread defrays some of the high compensation costs for 
U.S. engineers. If the deduction is lost because it is required to be charged to cost 
sharing foreign affiliates, the defrayal is lost as well. Absent this much needed de- 
frayal, U.S. multinationals may establish R&D operations outside the U.S., staffed 
with lower cost engineering talent. 

• These positions are an indirect attempt by the IRS to eliminate deferral con- 
trary to Congressional intent. 

Since 1962, Congress has recognized that U.S. multinationals should be allowed 
to defer U.S. tax on active business income earned by affiliates outside the U.S. 
until such income is repatriated in the form of dividends. Rather than undertake 
a direct challenge to deferral, as the IRS and Treasury attempted in Notices 98- 
11 and 98-35, the IRS’s recent adoption of these positions is a back door attack on 
deferral. By imposing excessive charges on foreign affiliates for buy-in and cost 
sharing payments, the IRS intends that there will be little or no profit to defer or 
repatriate. 

I/Wiy Congress Should Act Now 

Cost sharing arrangements are used by some of the most innovative and dynamic 
growth companies in the U.S. The active business profits generated by foreign affili- 
ates of these companies are used to fund overseas expansion. Many of these compa- 
nies are global leaders in their fields. Under the old IRS "contract manufacturer" 
position and its new cost sharing position, the IRS would subject all or nearly all 
of the active business profits of these foreign operations to a "toll charge" of current 
U.S. taxability. The abuse that Congress sought to end in 1984 and 1986 was the 
tax-free transfer overseas of intangible property developed in the U.S., not to end 
deferral for active profits earned outside the U.S. after payment to the U .S. of a fair 
amount for developing the intangible property. 

Under typical IRS dispute resolution procedures, issues like these can take 5-12 
years to resolve. While the issues remain in dispute, taxpayers will be required to 
incur substantial administrative costs and outside adviser fees to defend against the 
IRS's claims.^ In addition, these claims cause substantial financial uncertainty for 
companies since IRS agents often demand several times the amounts they realisti- 
cally expect to obtain. 4 Taxpayers use cost sharing arrangements to avoid the uncer- 
tainties inherent in the "commensurate with income" standard applicable to li- 
censes. Years of uncertainty and inefficiency could be avoided if Congress would 
move now to establish some objective criteria for cost sharing arrangements. 

Our Recommendations. We believe that Congress should: 

• Clarify the cost sharing rules to limit buy-in payments and cost sharing pay- 
ments to amounts that unrelated parties dealing at arm's length would pay. We be- 
lieve that actual transfers of reasonably comparable intangible property are a prop- 
er reference point for buy-in payments and that direct and indirect R&D expenses 
as determined under GAAP are a good reference point for defining R&D costs to be 
shared. 

• Consider whether the "commensurate with income" provision is serving its in- 
tended purpose or whether, as interpreted by the IRS it is being used as a device 
to end legitimate deferral of U.S. tax by U. S. multinationals. 

These views and recommendations are based on our nearly 50 years of collective 
experience with Ernst & Young LLP providing tax advice to many of the leading 
U.S. biomedical and high-tech firms that operate on a worldwide basis. Should you 
wish, we would be happy to meet with you or your staff to discuss these important 


^The recent IRS Report on Section 482 states that IRS costs for resolving two recent transfer 
pricing litigation were $4.6 million and $2.1 million while costs to resolve comlex Advance pric- 
ing Agreements averaged $72,000. 

‘‘According to the I RS report, since 1994, the average amount of Section 482 adjustments pro- 
posed by IRS examiners sustained by Appeals was 27%. In the recent litiigation with DHL, the 
I RS Notice of Deficiency asserted a value in excess of $500 million for the transferred trademark 
and trade name, which value was reduced by IRS to around $300 million at trial, of which the 
Tax court sustained an adjustment of $100 million. 



183 


issues. We can be contacted through Donna Steele Flynn in Ernst & Young LLP's 
Tax Legislative Services group in Washington at 202-327-6664. 

Sincerely, 


Peter Kloet 
Michael F. Patton 
J OHN Wills 


Statement of the Financial Executive Institute, Morristown, NJ 

Chairman Bill Archer and Members of the Flouse Ways and Means Committee: 

The Financial Executives Institute ("FEI") Committee on Taxation appreciates 
this opportunity to present its views on the impact of U.S. tax rules on international 
competitiveness. 

FEI is a professional association comprising 14,000 senior financial executives for 
over 8,000 major companies throughout the United States. The Tax Committee rep- 
resents the views of the senior tax officers from over 30 of the nation's largest cor- 
porations. 

At the outset, FEI would like to thank you, Mr. Chairman, for your support of 
FI.R. 2018, the International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act 
of 1999, recently introduced by Mr. Floughton and Mr. Levin. This legislation builds 
on your previous successful efforts to keep step with the rapid globalization of the 
economy by simplifying and rationalizing the international provisions of the Inter- 
nal Revenue Code (the "Code"). 

Taxation in a Global Economy 

The U.S. international tax regime reflects a balance between two important, but 
sometimes conflicting, goals: neutrality and competitiveness. The U.S. generally 
tries to raise revenue in a neutral manner that does not discriminate in favor of 
one investment over another. At the same time, the U.S. seeks to raise revenue in 
a way that does not hinder, and where possible helps, the competitiveness of the 
American economy, its firms and its workers. 

The current balance between neutrality and competitiveness was struck almost 
four decades ago during the Kennedy Administration. At the time, the rest of the 
world was still in large measure trying to rebuild from the social, physical and polit- 
ical devastation of World War II. The United States was a comparative economic 
giant, accounting for 50 percent of worldwide foreign direct investment and 40 per- 
cent of worldwide GDP. Under these circumstances, policymakers were more con- 
cerned with the impact of tax law on the location decisions of U.S. firms— i.e., neu- 
trality— than on the effect of tax law on the competitiveness of those firms. 

Accordingly, the Code taxes U.S. taxpayers on their worldwide income, with a tax 
credit for taxes paid to foreign jurisdictions. In theory, this approach ensures that 
a given investment by a U.S. firm will experience roughly the same level of taxation 
regardless of location. The Code takes competitiveness concerns into account by de- 
ferring tax on the active income of foreign subsidiaries of U.S. firms until the in- 
come is repatriated. This ensures that active subsidiaries are not more heavily taxed 
currently than their non-U. S. competitors down the street. Over the years, this de- 
ferral has been increasingly limited as competitiveness has taken a back seat to con- 
cerns about tax avoidance by U.S. taxpayers. 

Today, the global economic landscape looks very different than it did during the 
Kennedy Administration. Europe, J apan and a host of other nations have emerged 
as tough competitors. Revolutions in transportation, telecommunications and infor- 
mation technology mean that firms increasingly compete head-to-head on a global 
basis. As a result, the U.S. is fighting harder than ever to maintain its share, now 
down to about 25 percent, of the world's foreign direct investment and GDP, and 
many U.S. firms now focus as much or more on fast-growing overseas markets as 
on the mature U.S. market. 

The U.S. needs to adapt its international tax regime to this new reality. It is no 
longer acceptable merely to strive to treat U.S. taxpayers or their investments in 
a neutral manner. We must also consider how their competitors from other nations 
are taxed by their host governments. For example, while the United States con- 
tinues to tax its taxpayers on a worldwide basis, many of our trading partners tend 
to tax their businesses on a "territorial" basis in which only income earned 
("sourced") in the home jurisdiction is subject to taxation. Even countries which tax 
on a worldwide basis do so with far fewer limitations and less complex rules on de- 



184 


ferral, the foreign tax credit and the aiiocation and apportionment of income, deduc- 
tions and expenses between domestic and foreign sources. 

Making America More Competitive 

With your ieadership, Mr. Chairman, Congress in recent years has taken some 
positive steps to reform the internationai tax ruies and make America more com- 
petitive. Among the important changes: eliminating the PFIC/CFC overlap, simpli- 
fying the 10/50 basket, applying the FSC regime to software, repealing section 956A, 
and extending deferral to active financing income. 

FI.R. 2018 includes many of the necessary next steps for reform. FBI strongly en- 
dorses this legislation and associates itself with the testimony of the National For- 
eign Trade Council with respect to specific provisions of the bill. 

For example, FBI strongly supports the provision in FI.R. 2018 that seeks to treat 
the Buropean Union as a single country. The Buropean Union created a single mar- 
ket in 1992 and a single currency, the euro, in 1999. Yet U.S. international tax rules 
still treat the BU as 15 separate countries. This has made it difficult for U.S. com- 
panies to consolidate their BU operations and take advantage of the new economies 
of scale. Over time, our Buropean competitors, who do not face such obstacles to 
consolidation, will gain a competitive advantage. 

Another example is the provision that would accelerate the effective date for 
"look-through" treatment in applying the foreign tax credit baskets to dividends 
from 10/50 companies. The 1997 tax law allows such look-through treatment for 
dividends paid out of earnings and profits accumulated in taxable years beginning 
after December 31, 2002. This means U.S. corporate taxpayers face an unnecessary 
tax cost until 2003. 


Threats to Competitiveness 

Notwithstanding these positive developments, there have been some ominous 
clouds on the international tax horizon. The Treasury Department early last year 
issued guidance on so-called "hybrid entities" that would have substantially hin- 
dered the ability of U.S. companies to compete abroad (Notice 98-11). Although the 
original "hybrid" rules were withdrawn and we understand that the subsequent no- 
tice (Notice 98-35) is being reconsidered. Treasury has given every indication that 
it will continue to push neutrality concerns over competitiveness, (e.g., seeking lim- 
its on deferral and promoting theOBCD effort on "harmful tax competition"). These 
and other proposals to amend the Code in ways that threaten U.S. competitiveness 
take us in precisely the opposite direction from where we need to go in the global 
economy. 

Consider the effort by some to further limit deferral. Under current law, ten per- 
cent or greater U.S. shareholders of a controlled foreign corporation ("CFC") gen- 
erally are not taxed on their proportionate share of the CFC's operating earnings 
until those earnings are actually paid in the form of a dividend. Thus, U.S. tax on 
the CFC's earnings generally is "deferred" until an actual dividend payment to the 
parent company, just as tax is "deferred" when an individual holds shares in a com- 
pany until such time as the company actually pays a dividend to the individual. 
Flowever, under Subpart F of the Code, deferral is denied— so that tax is acceler- 
ated— on certain types of CFC income. 

Subpart F was originally enacted in 1962 to curb the ability of U.S. companies 
to allocate income and/or assets to low-tax jurisdictions for tax avoidance purposes. 
Today, it is virtually impossible under the Section 482 transfer pricing and other 
rules to allocate income in this manner. Indeed, the acceleration of tax on share- 
holders of CFC operations has no counterpart in the tax laws of our foreign trading 
partners.! Nevertheless, Subpart F remains in the Code, putting U.S. companies at 
a disadvantage. In many instances. Subpart F results in the taxation of income that 
may never be realized— perhaps because of the existence in a foreign country of ex- 
change or other restrictions on profit distributions, reinvestment requirements of 
the business, devaluation of foreign currencies, subsequent operating losses, expro- 
priation, and the like— by the U.S. shareholder. 

Other problems posed by the acceleration of tax under Subpart F and similar pro- 
posals include: 


!For example, according to a 1990 "White Paper" submitted by the International Competition 
Subcommittee of the American Bar Association Section of Taxation to congressional tax writing 
committees, countries such as France, Germany, J apan, and The Netherlands do not tax domes- 
tic parents on the earnings of their foreign marketing subsidiaries until such earnings are repa- 
triated. 



185 


• Acceleration of tax may lessen the likelihood or totally prevent U.S. companies 
from investing in developing countries by vitiating tax incentives offered by such 
countries to attract investment. This result would be counter to U.S. foreign policy 
objectives by opening the door to foreign competitors who would likely order compo- 
nents and other products from their own suppliers rather than from U.S. suppliers. 
Moreover, any reduced tax costs procured by these foreign competitors would likely 
be protected under tax sparing-type provisions of tax treaties that are typically 
agreed to by other nations, although not by the U.S. T reasury. 

• Subpart F adversely affects companies attempting to cope with difficult ex- 
change control and customs issues, frequently encountered in developing countries. 
The risks of controlled currencies and adverse customs results can be avoided if the 
U.S. multinational sells into the country through a controlled subsidiary incor- 
porated in another country. Flowever, the current Subpart F regime results in loss 
of deferral. Non-U. S. competitors are not faced with this additional cost. 

• It may result in double taxation in those countries which permit more rapid re- 
covery of investment than the U.S., because the U.S. tax would precede the foreign 
creditable income tax by several years and the carryback period may be inadequate. 
Moreover, even if a longer carryback period were enacted,, the acceleration of the 
U.S. tax would be a serious competitive disadvantage vis-a'-vis foreign-owned com- 
petition. 

• It would discriminate against shareholders of U.S. companies with foreign oper- 
ations, as contrasted with domestic companies doing business only in the U.S., by 
accelerating the tax on unrealized income. This is poor policy because U.S. multi- 
national companies have been and continue to be responsible for significant employ- 
ment in the U.S. economy, much of which is generated by their foreign investments. 

• It could harm the U.S. balance of payments. Earnings remitted to the U.S. have 
exceeded U.S. foreign direct investment and have been the most important single 
positive contribution to the U.S. balance of payments. The ability to freely reinvest 
earnings in foreign operations results in strengthening those operations and assur- 
ing the future repatriation of earnings. Accelerating tax on CFCs would greatly 
erode this advantage. 

Acceleration of tax on CFCs is often justified by the belief that U.S. jobs will 
somehow be preserved if foreign subsidiaries are taxed currently. Flowever, in re- 
ality, foreign operations of U.S. multinationals create rather than displace U.S. jobs, 
while also supporting our balance of payments and increasing U.S. exports. Foreign 
subsidiaries of U.S. companies play a critical role in boosting U.S. exports by mar- 
keting, distributing, and finishing American-made products in foreign markets. In 
1996, U.S. multinational companies were involved in an astounding 65 percent of 
all U.S. merchandise export sales. And studies have shown that these exports sup- 
port higher wagejobs in the United States. 

U.S. firms establish operations abroad because of market requirements or mar- 
keting opportunities. For example, it is self-evident that those who seek natural re- 
sources must develop them in the geographical locations where they are found, or 
that those who provide time-sensitive information technology products and services 
must have a local presence. In addition, as a practical matter, local conditions nor- 
mally dictate that U.S. corporations manufacture in the foreign country in order to 
enjoy foreign business opportunities. This process works in reverse: it has now be- 
come commonplace for foreign companies like BMW, Flonda, Mercedes, and Toyota 
to set up manufacturing operations in the U.S. to serve the U.S. market. It is not 
just multinationals that benefit from trade. Many small and medium-sized busi- 
nesses in the U.S. either export themselves or supply goods and services to other 
export companies. 

Moreover, CFCs generally are not in competition with U.S. manufacturing oper- 
ations but rather with foreign-owned and foreign-based manufacturers. A very small 
percentage (less than 10% in 1994) of the total sales of American-owned foreign 
manufacturing subsidiaries are made to the U.S. Most imports come from sources 
other than foreign affiliates of U.S. firms. Therefore, a decrease in foreign invest- 
ment by U.S. companies would not result in an increase in U.S. investment, pri- 
marily because foreign investments are undertaken not as an alternative to domes- 
tic investment, but to supplement such investment. 

Indeed, there is a positive relationship between investment abroad and domestic 
expansion. Leading U.S. corporations operating both in the U.S. and abroad have 
expanded their U.S. employment, their domestic sales, their investments in the 
U.S., and their exports from the U.S. at substantially faster rates than industry 
generally. In a 1998 study entitled "Mainstay III: A Report on the Domestic Con- 
tributions of American Companies with Global Operations," and an earlier study 
from 1993 entitled "Mainstay II: A New Account of the Critical Role of U.S. Multi- 
national Companies in the U.S. Economy," the Emergency Committee for American 



186 


Trade ("ECAT") documented the importance to the U.S. economy of U.S. based mul- 
tinational companies. The studies found that investments abroad by U.S. multi- 
national companies provide a platform for the growth of exports and create jobs in 
the United States. (The full studies are available from The Emergency Committee 
for American Trade, 1211 Connecticut Avenue, Washington, DC 20036, phone (202) 
659-5147). 

Proposals to accelerate tax through the repeal of "deferral" are in marked contrast 
and conflict with over 50 years of bipartisan trade policy. The U.S. has long been 
committed to the removal of trade barriers and the promotion of international in- 
vestment, most recently through the NAFTA and WTO agreements. Moreover, be- 
cause of their political and strategic importance, foreign investments by U .S. compa- 
nies have often been supported by the U.S. government. For example, participation 
by U.S. oil companies in the development of the Tengiz oil field in Kazakhstan has 
been praised as fostering the political independence of that newly formed nation, as 
well as securing new sources of oil to Western nations, which are still heavily de- 
pendent on Middle Eastern imports. 


Conclusion 

Current U.S. international tax rules create many impediments that cause severe 
competitive disadvantages for U.S. based multinationals. By contrast, the tax sys- 
tems of other countries actually encourage our foreign-based competitors to be more 
competitive. It is time for Congress to improve our system to allow U.S. companies 
to compete more effectively, and to r^ect proposals that would create new impedi- 
ments making it even more difficult and in some cases impossible to succeed in to- 
day's global business environment. 

We thank you for the opportunity to provide our comments on this extremely im- 
portant issue. 


Statement of Warren Thompson, Director of Tax, Frank Russell Company, 

Tacoma, WA 

My name is Warren Thompson; I am the Director of Tax for Frank Russell Com- 
pany. The testimony offered herein presents Russell's experience concerning the 
manner in which current US tax law seriously impedes the growth potential of the 
US mutual fund industry. I n addition, we would like to register our support of FI .R. 
2430, the Investment Competitiveness Act of 1999. FI.R. 2430 is sensible and long 
overdue legislation that is critical if the US mutual fund industry is to become an 
attractive investment alternative for global investors. The Frank Russell Company 
strongly supports this legislation and commends the bill's sponsors. Representatives 
Crane, Dunn, and McDermott for their efforts to address this issue. 

The Frank Russell Company, headquartered in Tacoma, Washington, is recog- 
nized as one of the premier global money managers and pension consulting firms 
in the world, providing investment strategy consulting worldwide to such institu- 
tional investors as GM, IBM, AT&T, XEROX, Boeing, UAL, Unilever, Shell, Mon- 
santo, and others. From nine offices worldwide, Russell advises clients on over $1 
trillion of investment assets and manages over $50 billion in funds, including mu- 
tual funds (otherwise known as regulated investment companies or "RICs"), common 
trust funds, commingled employee benefit funds, and private investment partner- 
ships. In addition, Russell conducts research on nearly 2000 investment managers 
in more than twenty countries. 

We have found, from our experience around the world, that the US mutual fund 
industry is the most technologically advanced in the world and, therefore, the most 
efficient in delivering services to clients. Flowever, research of the current practices 
of global investment managers shows that global institutional investors and man- 
agers use US mutual funds very sparingly. One of the principle reasons they do not 
use US mutual funds is the withholding tax on dividends and short-term capital 
gains imposed under current US tax law. 

As the Committee is already well aware, current US tax laws have, in many 
cases, failed to kept pace with our increasingly dynamic and competitive US and 
global market, often to the detriment of US companies. I n the case of the US mutual 
fund industry, current US law blocks US-based mutual funds from competing for 
international investment dollars by making it virtually impossible for US mutual 
funds to sell their products outside the United States. Asa direct result, US mutual 
fund companies are forced outside the United States to simply sell their products 
and compete with foreign funds that are not subject to similar withholding taxes. 



187 


Current Tax Rules 

Income earned by a mutual fund is comprised of four eiements: (1) interest; (2) 
short-term capitai gains; (3) iong-term capitai gains; and (4) dividends. Of these 
four, generaiiy, oniy dividend income is subject to withhoiding tax. 

Under current iaw, when the income earned by a mutuai fund is distributed, the 
interest income and short-term capitai gains income are converted into dividend in- 
come, effectively re-characterizing theprincipai earnings of the mutuai fund as divi- 
dend income. When received by a foreign investor, this "dividend income" is subject 
to a 30 percent withhoiding tax. Tax treaties may reduce this rate to 15 percent or 
iess for residents of certain treaty countries. Nonetheiess, this tax significantiy re- 
duces the attractiveness of US-based mutuai funds to foreign investors. 

Interest Income 

The Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 generaiiy repeaied the 30 percent withholding 
tax for portfoiio interest paid to foreign investors on obiigations issued after J uiy 
18, 1984. Tax treaties between the United States and a number of foreign countries 
aiso exempt interest paid to foreign investors from the withholding tax. 

For a US mutuai fund, however, interest income is characterized as dividend in- 
come when it is distributed. The portfoiio interest exemption and reduced treaty 
rates, therefore, do not appiy and aii such income is subject to withhoiding tax when 
received by foreign investors. 

Short-term capital gains 

A US mutuai fund must aiso characterize short-term capitai gains as ordinary in- 
come dividends, making such income subject to withhoiding tax when received by 
foreign investors. In direct contrast, if a foreign investor invests directiy in US secu- 
rities, through a unit-trust, partnership, or foreign mutuai fund, such short-term 
capitai gain income is not be subject to withholding tax. 

Current US Tax Law Creates a Maj or Impediment to Foreign I nvestment 

We have found, in our discussions with potential investors throughout the world, 
that the first fund of choice for a foreign investor is one based in its own country. 
The second choice, all other things being equal, typically is investment in US funds, 
for the following reasons: 

• The US system of regulation is unparalleled in its commitment to investor pro- 
tector. 

• The US fund system uses the most advanced investment management tech- 
nology, including the best accounting and recordkeeping knowledge and expertise. 

• The US mutual fund industry has by far the best marketing and client servicing 
capabilities. 

Until 1980, US-based institutional investors had very few, if any, investments 
outside the United States. Today, these funds invest 15 percent or more of their as- 
sets in overseas equity and debt instruments. Similarly, institutional investors in 
foreign countries, such as those in the United Kingdom, J apan, and Switzerland are 
also increasing their investments outside their home country. These investors in- 
clude insurance companies, banks, trusts, pension funds, reinsurance pools, central 
banks, and government entities. 

The US withholding tax, however, provides a strong disincentive for foreign inves- 
tors for two reasons— it effectively imposes an export tax on the US mutual fund 
industry, making US based funds less attractive from a pricing standpoint: and it 
creates an administrative burden. 

Large, institutional investors have a broad choice of investment vehicles world- 
wide. It has been our experience that these investors will not hesitate to move in- 
vestment assets wherever necessary to obtain the highest after-tax yield available 
at their particular risk-tolerance level. The US withholding rate of 30 percent re- 
duces yields for US mutual funds to levels substantially below world market rates, 
thus creating a significant impediment to US investment managers selling their 
funds outside the US. 

While some foreign investors may be entitled to a refund of the withholding tax 
paid (under tax treaty provisions), the administrative burden and the loss of use of 
the funds (for periods of time frequently in excess of a year) outweigh the expected 
yields. Thus, the foreign investment in US securities is achieved through other 
means. 

Foreign investors can avoid the withholding tax by investing directly in US securi- 
ties. Flowever, our experience is that foreign investors, particularly institutional in- 
vestors, prefer to employ highly experienced professional investment managers to di- 
versify their investments overseas through the use of "pooled" vehicles. Recently, 



188 


Russell conducted a survey of Its potential Investment clients In Europe. We learned 
that, In general, those Investors prefer a pooled vehicle such as a mutual fund for 
their global Investment strategies. This Is no surprise. Pooled Investments represent 
the most efficient way to diversify a portfolio across multiple markets and among 
several currencies. However, because the US tax code Imposes a tax penalty In the 
form of the 30 percent withholding tax, those Investors generally go elsewhere to 
access the global markets. 

This has resulted In the dramatic Increase In Institutional funds located In such 
tax-favored jurisdictions as Luxembourg, Ireland, Bermuda, and the Cayman Is- 
lands. Many of the funds created In these jurisdictions Invest In US securities. For- 
eign-based Institutional Investors find these funds attractive because their Invest- 
ments are not subject to the US withholding tax. 

US Mutual Fund Companies Must Locate Outside the US in Order 

TO Compete 

The 30 percent withholding tax Imposed on US mutual funds can be totally avoid- 
ed by establishing funds outside the US. Since Interest and capital gains earned di- 
rectly (I.e. without being "converted" Into dividends) generally are not subject to US 
withholding tax, funds based outside the US are not subject to the same 30 percent 
cut that Is Imposed on funds located Inside the US. US mutual fund companies, 
therefore, routinely set up "clone" or "mirror" funds of their US-based funds outside 
US borders. This is currently the only way US funds can effectively avoid the 30 
percent tax and compete for foreign investment dollars. 

Frank Russell Company, along with many other US mutual fund companies, 
would prefer not to have to set up operations outside the US to make their products 
attractive to foreign investors. Keeping these operations at home would allow US 
companies to benefit from their existing operations and systems. It would also allow 
us to avoid additional taxation and expenses associated with locating in foreign 
countries and it would allow us to develop jobs at home rather than abroad. 

Russell's experience in Canada exemplifies this point and the impact of the US 
withholding tax. 

R ussell 's Experience 

In 1992, Russell entered into an arrangement to provide a series of investment 
funds to be marketed to the individual retirement account market in Canada by a 
Canadian brokerage. The US withholding tax made Russell's existing US mutual 
funds unattractive investment vehicles for Canadian investors. 

Russell was thus forced to create a new Canadian-based family of funds (that are 
essentially "clones" of existing Russell US-based mutual funds), solely for the pur- 
pose of providing a tax efficient pooled investment vehicle to Canadian investors 
who wish to invest a substantial portion of their retirement portfolio in US securi- 
ties. These funds became fully operational in J anuary 1993, and grew to over $100 
million (Canadian) in assets in less then six months. They have since grown to over 
$2 bi 1 1 1 on in assets. 

One reason these funds are so successful is because, increasingly, foreign inves- 
tors are attracted to Russell's "multi-style, multi-manager" investment approach. 
This investment approach is particularly attractive to investors with a long-term 
asset/liability management focus, such as pension funds, individual retirement 
plans, and insurance pools. In using the investment technology it has developed 
over the last 25 years advising some of the world's largest investment pools, Russell 
is regarded as possessing cutting edge global investment technology. This propri- 
etary technology and "know-how" represents a quantum leap over other investment 
products available in the global market. 

Yet, these funds— managed in Canada but substantially invested in US securi- 
ties— employ Canadian accounting, custodial, trustee, and recordkeeping services 
and pay investment management fees to select Canadian investment managers. 
Russell's Canadian affiliate pays Canadian corporate income tax on its earnings 
from this operation. 

It is worth noting at this point that several foreign jurisdictions have enacted 
"magnet" legislation to attract the pooled investment business to their countries. 
Ireland is a recent example of this trend, having enacted l^islation to permit pure 
"pass-through" treatment for funds located there, and significantly lowering the in- 
come tax rate for investment management firms that conduct funds operations in 
Dublin. Such foreign legislation thus creates a double incentive to locate US funds 
businesses off shore. 



189 


H.R. 2430, The Investment Competitiveness Act of 1999 

If H.R. 2430 had been in place at the time Russell was organizing its funds in 
Canada, there would have been no need for Russell to create a separate set of 
"clone" funds in Canada. 

In general, H.R. 2430 effectively removes the 30 percent penalty imposed on US 
mutual funds by allowing interest and short-term capital gains income to retain 
their original character when distributed to a foreign shareholder. Rather than 
being converted to dividend income subject to the 30 percent withholding tax, inter- 
est earned by a US mutual fund would flow through to foreign shareholders as in- 
terest income. Likewise, short-term capital gains income would flow through as 
short-term capital gains income. This would permit US mutual funds to sell their 
investment products to investors outside the US without the withholding tax im- 
pediment. 


Policy Issues Relating to H.R. 2430 

Competitive Considerations. US mutual funds, such as those sponsored by Frank 
Russell Company, should be placed on a level playing field with foreign mutual 
funds. The international funds business is highly competitive and marked by very 
narrow profit margins. Often, mere basis points (hundredths of a percentage point) 
separate the bidders for institutional investment business. The US fund industry, 
if allowed to compete on level ground with foreign funds, could employ its produc- 
tion efficiencies and cutting edge technology to attracting significant foreign capital. 
Under current US tax law, companies like Frank Russell cannot compete, and the 
foreign investment dollar is left to a foreign fund, with little or no direct benefit ac- 
cruing to the United States. 

Neutraiity of Tax Law In Investment Decisi ms. Foreign investment in US securi- 
ties may be accomplished in several ways: directly, or indirectly, through foreign or 
US vehicles. Current US tax law favors direct investment or indirect investment 
through foreign funds. Effectively, US tax law compels a particular investment ap- 
proach by foreign investors, which denies US mutual funds access to the market. 
We do not believe sound tax policy is served by the current tax structure. Tax law 
should be neutral with respect to its impact on investment decisions. We believe 
that such tax neutrality would permit taxpayers such as Frank Russell Company 
the ability to fully benefit from the technological and strategic advantage we have 
worked hard to develop over the years. 

Applicatim of the 1984 Act. In the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984, Congress ex- 
empted from US withholding tax certain payments to foreign direct investors and 
exempted investments in the underlying obligations from US estate tax. Congress 
enacted these provisions to promote capital formation and substantial economic 
growth in the United States. This bill would continue to foster capital formation and 
economic growth by providing wider access for US mutual funds to the billions of 
foreign investment dollars currently lodged in foreign mutual funds. 

Conclusion 

During the last decade, the US mutual fund industry has become one of the fast- 
est growing segments of the US financial services industry. US mutual fund assets 
now total over $2 trillion. Such a thriving domestic industry must be allowed to 
flourish on an international level as well. Yet, the current tax environment prevents 
this industry from exporting its product. H.R. 2430 would create a worldwide mar- 
ket for US mutual funds, thus unleashing additional flows of international capital 
into US investments. For the Frank Russell Company, H.R. 2430 adjusts US tax 
law to reflect today's dynamic, international financial services market. It is legisla- 
tion that it critically important from both a business and policy prospective. 


Statement of M. David Blecher, Principal, Hewitt Associates, LLC 

Introduction 

Hewitt Associates is a global management consulting firm specializing in human 
resource solutions, with 10,000 associates worldwide, and 73 offices in 34 different 
countries, including 27 offices across the U.S. We have been recognized by Business 
I nsurance magazine as the largest U.S. benefits consulting firm and the second-larg- 
est benefits consulting firm worldwide. Our clients include over 75 percent of For- 
tune 500 companies. 



190 


Our primary business faiis into three main areas: 

• Strategy, design, and impiementation of human resources, benefits, and com- 
pensation programs both domesticaiiy and giobaiiy. 

• Finandai and performance management of programs inciuding actuariai serv- 
ices, cost quaiity, empioyee satisfaction, measurement, and anaiysis for aii retire- 
ment and heaith-reiated benefits. 

• Ongoing administration of programs inciuding outsourced deiivery. For exam- 
pie, we manage aii aspects of empioyee benefits pian administration, inciuding co- 
ordination with third parties (e.g., individuai heaith pians) and improve customer 
service for empioyee benefits pian participants. 

Both in our capacity as a giobai empioyer and in our capacity as a consuitant to 
companies with internationai interests, we have, over time, become aware of various 
probiems with U.S. tax iaws, probiems caused in some instances by the contents of 
the iaws and in other instances by the way the iaws are enforced. 

Some of our concerns have been abiy addressed in the materiais fiied by witnesses 
at the J une 30 hearing. Specificaiiy, we endorse the need to correct probiems cre- 
ated by subpart F, section 911, the foreign tax credit ruies, and the aiternative min- 
imum tax, and we generaiiy support the current efforts to reform these areas of the 
iaw. Some of the items that we have found especiaiiy troubiesome are iisted, with- 
out discussion, as "Other I mportant Items" toward the end of this statement. 

Rather than use up our iimited space in reiterating arguments that have aiready 
been cogentiy made, we wouid iike to focus on some specific probiems that, as far 
as we are aware, have not been raised before the Committee. These reiate to the 
effect of tax ruies on individuais rather than corporations. In their way, they con- 
tribute toward the reduction in giobai competitiveness of U.S. companies. 

Summary 

In our current age of increasing giobaiization, U.S. companies more than ever be- 
fore need empioyees with internationai experience. Increasingiy, this need is no 
ionger confined to corporate executives, but is felt at a much broader level than for- 
merly. Features of the tax code and its application, however, militate against the 
transfer of employees overseas; indeed, they encourage companies to operate abroad 
employing non-U .S. employees. We believe that the effect of this is to impair the 
competitiveness of companies in the United States. 

The problem stems from the requirements of the Internal Revenue Code relating 
to individuals living and working outside the United States. In addition to sub- 
stantive rules that we would consider anti-competitive, the Code's provisions are 
complicated and make compliance difficult. The complicated tax law, lengthy forms, 
and cost to individuals and companies for tax preparation services encourages com- 
panies to eliminate U.S. employees from the candidate pool when considering inter- 
national assignments. The converse is true, too; we have seen U.S. employees refuse 
overseas assignments because of their complicated and unpleasant tax implications. 
Without international work and living experiences, U.S. employees will become less 
competitive in the global workforce. 

Topics that illustrate the problems we perceive are the complex tax filing require- 
ments, the tax-related costs typically borne by U.S. employers (and, if not the em- 
ployer, then the U.S. employees), and the rules relating to retirement benefits for 
expatriate employees; each of these we discuss briefly below. While these issues may 
not in themselves cause a company to take such drastic action as establishing head- 
quarters outside the U.S., they do contribute to overall anti-competitiveness and 
could be addressed without major overhaul of the Internal Revenue Code. 

Recommendations for Further Study by the Committee 

Our suggestions of areas for further study by the Committee with respect to the 
taxation of individuals include: 

1. Review tax forms such as Forms 673, 2555, 5471, and W-4, with a view to re- 
ducing their complexity or even eliminating forms where administrative costs out- 
weigh the benefits of the information contained in theforms. 

2. Consider legislation under which the U.S. would enable expatriate employees 
participating in foreign retirement plans to be treated for U.S. income tax purposes 
as if the employees were participating in U.S. qualified plans, provided the foreign 
plans are genuine retirement plans and are qualified under the laws of the host 
country. Tax-deferred rollovers or transfer of distributions from foreign retirement 
plans to U.S. plans should be included in any such rules. 

3. Consider negotiating tax treaty provisions that would prevent expatriate em- 
ployees from being taxed in the host country when they continue to accrue benefits 
under U.S. plans while on assignment in the host country. 



191 


4. Explore ways of encouraging states to adopt uniform provisions for the con- 
sistent tax treatment of individuals on international assignments. 

In addition, we suggest the Committee consider addressing the items listed as 
"Other Important Items" toward the end of this statement pertaining to both busi- 
ness and individual taxation. 


Filing Requirements 

The filing requirements for expatriates have been made somewhat simpler in re- 
cent years. Form 2555EZ, on which a taxpayer claims relief under the foreign 
earned income exclusion of Code section 911, is more straightforward than the 
standard Form 2555, although the bookkeeping requirements to complete the form 
are substantial— the taxpayer must carefully track when he is in and out of the 
U.S., and what he was doing when he was in each location (work versus personal 
time)— and the "EZ" form cannot be used if the taxpayer also wishes to claim the 
foreign housing exclusion. 

In addition to tracking travel and work days, the employee must complete Form 
673, Statement for Claiming Benefits Provided by Section 911 of the Internal Rev- 
enue Code. This form provides written documentation to the employer that the em- 
ployee is eligible for the section 911 exclusions, and provides the amounts by which 
income may be reduced before withholding is necessary. The employee may also 
need to complete a revised Form W-4 to take into account the foreign tax credit 
or a statement indicating that the employee is subject to tax withholdings in the 
host country, so that no federal withholding is necessary. Both Form 673 and Form 
W-4 are difficult to understand and complete: the average taxpayer is unable to 
complete either form without professional assistance. 

The U.S. filing complexity is eclipsed only by the various states' requirements for 
residents on international assignments. Much of the difficulty of state tax filings 
would be eliminated if unnecessary federal filing requirements were curtailed or if 
the states could agree on a uniform approach to the taxation of employees on inter- 
national assignments. 


Tax-Related Costs 

Many U.S. taxpayers on international assignments are paying some income tax 
required by the U.S. tax code even though they did not earn the income in the U.S. 
Because the majority of U.S. multinational companies have a policy of tax-equali- 
zation (the employees will pay only as much in taxes as they would have paid had 
they remained at home), this cost is borne by U.S. corporations. On top of the tax 
cost, we must consider the cost to administer payroll (calculating appropriate 
withholdings, reviewing documentation for payroll, etc.) and the cost of tax return 
preparation services relating to employees' overseas employment. 

In our professional experience, we have seen companies decide not to transfer U.S. 
citizens or residents because of the additional costs and complexities involved. If 
they are to continue to succeed in the global economy, U.S. companies need employ- 
ees with international experience. In short, the U.S. tax code may adversely affect 
the competitiveness of U.S. companies by making international assignments prohibi- 
tively expensive and complicated. 

Retirement I ncome 


(a) U.S. Plans v. Foreign Plans 

The U.S. system of taxing its citizens and residents on their worldwide income 
has some adverse effects in the area of retirement benefits. For example, if a com- 
pany transfers a U.S. citizen abroad, the expatriate employee may continue to be 
covered in his or her U.S. retirement plans (commonly the case where the employee 
is transferred for a relatively short-term assignment) or the employee may cease 
participation in U.S. plans and, instead, become a member of one or more plans in 
the host country. These two scenarios have different tax results: 

(1) Continued participation in U.S. plans. Under current law, if the expatriate em- 
ployee continues to participate in U.S. plans, the U.S. tax treatment will be essen- 
tially the same as if he or she were still in the U.S. Specifically, contributions on 
the employee's behalf to, and benefits under, U.S. qualified plans will not normally 
be taxable to the employee until he or she receives a distribution of benefits from 
the plans. The problem for U.S. expatriate employees is that the employee may well 
find that the host country is subjecting the employee to taxation on his or her U.S. 
benefits, such as 401(k) deferrals or benefit accruals under a pension plan, on the 
basis that they represent income with a host-country source and that U.S. plans do 
not qualify for favorabletax treatment under the host country's laws. 



192 


When this occurs, U.S. law may afford the employee a foreign tax credit to offset 
those taxes, but the way the foreign tax credit works, it will not always operate to 
fully avoid double taxation of the individual. 

(2) Participation in host country pians. If an expatriate employee participates in 
retirement plans in the host country, the employee may escape current taxation in 
the host country if those plans are qualified for favorable tax treatment in that 
country. From the U.S. perspective, however, it is close to certain that the foreign 
plans will not contain all the provisions needed for them to be qualified in the U.S. 
To the extent, therefore, that an expatriate's overseas accruals are vested, the U.S. 
will subject the individual to current rather than deferred taxation of the benefits. 
This gives rise to complicated tax calculations when the individual eventually re- 
tires, having already been taxed on the overseas benefit and being likely taxed by 
the host country at the time of payout. 

It would be much simpler, and should involve no significant (if any) loss of rev- 
enue if the U.S. and foreign countries could work out a system of reciprocity under 
which an expatriate participating in tax-qualified retirement plans in the host coun- 
try could have the home country deem the host country plans to be tax-qualified 
in this situation. 

This kind of arrangement is not unprecedented. The income tax treaty between 
the U.S. and Canada contains a provision (Article XVII I, section 7) that enables ex- 
patriate employees (e.g., U.S. citizens working in Canada and participating in Cana- 
dian retirement plans) to defer the taxation of retirement income in the home coun- 
try until the time the employee actually receives a distribution of that income. 

In addition, in the United Kingdom, the Inland Revenue (without reciprocity from 
the U.S.) has a procedure under which U.S. retirement plans can be submitted for 
"corresponding approval" under U.K. law. In order to obtain such approval, a plan 
need not demonstrate that it complies with all the requirements for a U.K. "ap- 
proved scheme." 

We believe that the U .S. should seriously consider establishing similar procedures 
under which the Internal Revenue Service could deem foreign retirement plans to 
be qualified for purposes of deferring taxation of U.S. citizens and residents. 

(b) Rollovers and Transfers of Benefits. 

Under current rules, benefits from a nonqualified retirement plan cannot be rolled 
over or transferred to a qualified retirement plan without jeopardizing the qualifica- 
tion of the latter plan. As virtually no foreign plans are qualified for U.S. purposes, 
this effectively precludes an employee who is transferring to (or back to) the United 
States from transferring any benefits he or she may have received from a qualified 
foreign plan to the U.S. qualified retirement plans in which the employee partici- 
pates. Such transfers, if permitted, would facilitate the transfer of needed employees 
to the U.S. This would, however, require careful investigation and might be best 
handled through reciprocal arrangements in income tax treaties. 

The coordination of retirement benefits for mobile employees is a complicated 
topic. We do not claim to have all the answers. We do believe, however, that it is 
an issue that will affect the competitiveness of U.S. companies, particularly as other 
regions of the world tackle this issue. We follow with interest the movement in the 
European Union toward pan-European pensions and the ability of workers to move 
among European countries without adversely affecting their pensions. While Europe 
has not yet achieved these goals, there are forces committed to their achievement. 
If and when this happens, companies may have one more reason to site operations 
in Europe rather than the United States. With this in mind, we believe that the 
U.S. should pay serious attention to the tax problems confronting U.S. citizens and 
residents working abroad. 


Other Important Items 

Additional items that we, in our experience, would classify as anti-competitive 
from a U.S. perspective include: 

• the complexity of the foreign tax credit rules, which place an undue admin- 
istrative burden on U.S. taxpayers; 

• the alternative minimum tax; 

• the inequity of the rules under which unused foreign tax credits can be car- 
ried forward only five years and backward only one year, while overall foreign 
losses (which operate to reduce the credits) are carried forward without limit; 

• lack of a "deemed paid" foreign tax credit for non-corporate taxpayers, with 
the result that U.S. corporations can take a U.S. tax credit for foreign taxes 
paid directly by corporate subsidiaries, while non-corporate U.S. taxpayers (such 
as partnerships) are denied such a credit; 



193 


• the mind-numbingly complex deemed dividend rules (e.g., under Subpart 
F), which are effectively tax traps for the unwary: and 

• the requirement to file costly and extremely burdensome annual "Informa- 
tion Returns" (e.g., Form 5471) for certain foreign corporate and partnership 
subsidiaries— forms, in our view, of which the cost to taxpayers far outweighs 
the benefit of their contents to the government. 

Conclusion 

We thank the Committee for giving us the opportunity to express our views on 
this subject. We would be happy to work with the Committee in further under- 
standing the ramification of the issues discussed in this statement. 


Statement of Timothy A. Brown, President, International Organization of 

Masters, Mates & Pilots, Linthicum, MD and Lawrence H. OToole, Presi- 
dent, Marine Engineers' Beneficial Association 

Mr. Chairman and Members of the Committee: On behalf of the International Or- 
ganization of Masters, Mates & Pilots (MM&P) and the Marine Engineers' Bene- 
ficial Association (MEBA), we thank you for the opportunity to submit this state- 
ment specifically addressing our proposal to make section 911 of the Internal Rev- 
enue Code applicable to certain American merchant mariners. The MM&P primarily 
represents Masters and Licensed Deck Officers working aboard commercial vessels 
operating in our nation’s foreign and domestic shipping trades. The MEBA primarily 
represents Licensed Engineers working aboard commercial vessels also operating in 
our nation's foreign and domestic shipping trades. 

We would first like to emphasize our support for the views presented at the J une 
30 hearing by Mr. Peter Finnerty, Vice President for SeaLand Service, Inc, in sup- 
port of Fi.R. 2159, the "United States-flag Merchant Marine Revitalization Act of 
1999 " vve agree wholeheartedly that changes to the existing Capital Construction 
Fund as embodied in FI .R. 2159 will help increase the competitiveness of the United 
States-flag merchant marine by facilitating the accumulation of capital necessary for 
the construction of new, modern commercial vessels in American shipyards for oper- 
ation under the United States-flag. We similarly urge its favorable consideration by 
the Committee. 

At the same time, we believe it is equally important that Congress examine ways 
to increase the employment of American merchant mariners aboard commercial ves- 
sels in the foreign and international trades. We are convinced that extending the 
same foreign earned income exclusion available to other American workers to Amer- 
ican mariners working aboard commercial vessels operating outside the United 
States will help American merchant mariners compete more equally with com- 
parably qualified non-American mariners for these jobs. 

As the Committee is well aware, under section 911 of the Internal Revenue Code, 
American citizens employed outside the United States may exclude from their gross 
income for Federal income tax purposes up to $74,000 of their foreign-earned in- 
come. American merchant mariners, working aboard United States-flag or foreign 
flag commercial vessels in the foreign or international trades, are not qualified to 
take advantage of the foreign earned income exclusion primarily because they are 
not deemed to be working in a foreign country as defined in Internal Revenue Serv- 
ice regulations. 

We strongly believe that changing the definition of "foreign country" and altering 
the "foreign residence" test for merchant mariners to better reflect the true nature 
of their employment, and making section 911 applicable to merchant mariners, will 
be consistent with the important purposes and objectives of the foreign earned in- 
come exclusion. 

Clearly, one of the primary goals of section 911 is to promote America's national 
interests through the employment of American citizens outside the United States. 
Ensuring that the United States has a sufficient number of loyal, trained American 
merchant mariners to crew the government-owned and private vessels needed dur- 
ing war or other national or international emergency is a key component of Amer- 
ica's sealift capability. Making section 911 applicable to merchant mariners, and in- 
creasing the opportunity for Americans to compete for employment on commercial 
vessels, will augment America's available seapower force. As in the case of other 
Americans seeking employment in the international marketplace, it is extremely dif- 
ficult for American mariners, who are subject to the full range of American tax law, 
to secure employment opportunities outside the United States. 



194 


Similarly, extending section 911 to American mariners will have a direct and posi- 
tive impact, not only on the ability of Americans to secure employment on foreign 
vessels, but also on American companies operating vessels in the international ship- 
ping arena. Presently, vessel owners must pay an American mariner more than they 
would pay mariners from other nations so that American mariners may retain a 
comparable after-tax income. All too often, in the maritime industry as in other in- 
dustries, the employer is unwilling to pay this premium, even when the American 
mariner is more qualified, more professional and more productive than his foreign 
counterparts. 

Today, privately-owned United States-flag commercial vessels are forced to com- 
pete for cargoes in an environment largely dominated by heavily subsidized and for- 
eign state-owned fleets, and fleets registered in tax-haven countries, such as Libe- 
ria, Honduras, and Vanuatu. These fleets have significant economic and tax advan- 
tages as compared to American shipping companies. In reality, some of these dis- 
crepancies will continue to exist for the foreseeable future. For example, American 
companies extend health and welfare benefits that foreign governments rather than 
foreign companies provide to their nationals, and Americans are subject to a wide 
range of U.S. government-imposed rules and regulations generally not applicable to 
their foreign competitors. Extending section 911 to American mariners is one thing 
that Congress can do so that it will no longer mean an economic penalty or burden 
if a vessel operator— American or foreign— chooses to employ American mariners. 

Today, despite the efforts of our organizations and other maritime labor organiza- 
tions, American mariners are at a significant competitive disadvantage and are 
being priced out of their foreign markets— employment on commercial vessels oper- 
ating outside the United States in the foreign or international trades— because pro- 
spective employers must provide more income to American mariners to compensate 
them for the tax burden that is not faced by foreign mariners. 

We would point out that other nations are pursuing changes in their tax laws to 
increase employment opportunities for their merchant mariners. It has been re- 
ported that the Government of Ireland has decided to make concessions in its tax- 
ation of seafarers to make it more attractive to use Irish seafarers on Irish vessels 
and that a draft Government of India shipping policy includes, among other things, 
a proposal to provide "income tax exemptions for Indian seafarers, to attract talent 
to the field." 

Similarly, both Great Britain and Germany announced at the end of 1998 that 
they were each exploring a variety of tax-related measures and incentives, including 
those relating to their merchant mariners, in order to revitalize their fleets and in- 
crease employment for their nationals. Germany is specifically addressing whether 
they can attract more young Germans to seafaring jobs by further exempting from 
taxes a portion of the wages of new seafarers. 

Indeed, it is also worth noting that some foreign nations have already exempted 
their mariners from their national income tax, including Cyprus, Denmark, the 
Netherlands, Norway, and Spain. 

We believe that Congress can help achieve the dual objective of enhancing the 
competitiveness of United States-flag commercial vessels operating in international 
and foreign commerce, and increasing the opportunity for American merchant mari- 
ners to secure employment aboard foreign and American commercial vessels. We 
recommend that Congress make section 911 applicable to American mariners work- 
ing aboard either a United States-flag commercial vessel or aboard a vessel docu- 
mented under the laws of a foreign country, to the extent the income earned by the 
American mariner is attributable to employment performed outside the territorial 
waters of the United States. 

We thank you and your Committee for your consideration of this proposal and we 
stand ready to provide whatever additional information you or your staff may re- 
quire. 


Statement of the I nterstate Natural Gas Association of America 

The Interstate Natural Gas Association of America ("INGAA") is a non-profit na- 
tional trade association that represents virtually all of the major interstate natural 
gas transmission companies operating in the United States. These companies handle 
over 90 percent of all natural gas transported and sold in interstate commerce. 
INGAA’s United States members are regulated by the Federal Energy Regulatory 
Commission pursuant to the Natural Gas Act, 15 U.S.C. §§ 717-717w, and the Nat- 
ural Gas Policy Act of 1978, 15 U.S.C. §§3301-3432. 



195 


In recent years a number of INGAA’s members have become engaged in the de- 
sign, construction, engineering, ownership and operation of major pipeiine and 
power piant projects outside the United States. Investments are made in these for- 
eign projects generally by foreign subsidiaries of the U.S. companies. These projects, 
which are highly capital-intensive, often involve construction of a natural gas pipe- 
line and related facilities to transport gas from its point of extraction within one 
or more foreign countries for industrial uses, gas distribution and to electric gener- 
ating facilities for use as fuel in the generation of power. The pipeline construction 
project may include the electric generating plant, and in some cases may also in- 
clude an interest in the gas wefls which provide the gas supply. The gas being 
transported in the pipeline may or may not be owned by the pipeline owner. Most 
of these projects are being undertaken in countries in Latin America, such as Argen- 
tina, Bolivia and Chile, in countries in Asia, such as India, Oman, and Abu Dhabi 
and in less developed countries in other parts of the world. 

Generally, large energy projects are awarded through a bidding process. The bid- 
ding is highly competitive, and the economics of such projects are extremely tax sen- 
sitive. In many cases, the country or countries where the project is based impose 
substantial taxes on the project. U.S. tax law currently disadvantages U.S. compa- 
nies vis-a-vis their foreign competitors, including particularly those based in Can- 
ada, Australia, or Europe. 

In announcing this hearing. Chairman Archer stated: "I strongly believe that our 
tax rules must help, rather than hinder, the competitiveness of American busi- 
nesses." I NCAA urges Congress to reform the taxation of foreign oil and gas income 
to eliminate the clear inequities of current law as applicable to foreign pipeline 
projects. It is INGAA's position that the ownership and operation of gas pipelines 
and other immovable assets in foreign countries as described herein should never 
result in Subpart F income, whether or not the activities occur in a country where 
the gas was extracted or consumed, and whether or not the controlled foreign cor- 
poration takes title to the gas being transported, because these activities do not 
produce income which is passive or manipulable. Accordingly, we urge the Com- 
mittee to support FI.R. 1127, introduced by Representatives McCrery and Watkins, 
which clarifies the treatment of pipeline transportation income, and section 105 of 
FI.R. 2018, "International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act of 
1999," introduced by Representatives Floughton and Levin. Both bills would exclude 
income from the transportation of oil and gas by pipeline from subpart F income. 
Companion bills in the Senate, S. 1116 introduced by Senator Nickles and section 
105 of S. 1164 introduced by Senators Flatch and Baucus, would similarly exclude 
active oil and gas pipeline income from subpart F income. At a minimum, current 
law should be amended: (i) to apply both the current law "consumption" and "extrac- 
tion" exceptions to subpart F treatment in the same manner, /.e, their application 
should not be dependent upon whether the controlled foreign corporation takes title 
to the gas it is transporting: and (ii) to apply the high-tax exception to foreign base 
company income to foreign base company oil related income. 

Moreover, the Administration's proposal to revise the tax treatment of foreign oil 
and gas income (the "Proposal") should be rejected. The Proposal would, if enacted, 
exacerbate the current law bias against INGAA members in competing for these 
projects, and would drastically affect the economics of projects already undertaken. 
Accordingly, INGAA also urges Congress to reject the Proposal. 

This statement describes current law, illustrates the inequity of current law to 
INGAA members, and then further illustrates how the Proposal would greatly exac- 
erbate this inequity. 

I . U.S. Taxation of Foreign Pipelines Under Current Law 
A. Subpart F 

Under the Subpart F rules, U.S. "10 percent shareholders"^ of a "controlled for- 
eign corporation" ("CFC")^ are subject to U.S. tax currently on their proportionate 
shares of "Subpart F income" earned by the CFC, whether or not it is distributed 
to the U.S. shareholders.^ Included among the categories of Subpart F income is 
"foreign base company oil related income."^ Foreign base company oil related in- 
come is income derived outside the United States from the processing of minerals 
extracted from oil or gas wells into their primary products; the transportation, dis- 
tribution or sale of such mineral or primary products; the disposition of assets used 


iS 0 = section 951(b). 
2 See section 957(a). 
^Section 951(a). 
‘‘See section 954(g). 



196 


in a trade or business invoiving the foregoing: or the performance of any reiated 
services. 

There are two significant exceptions to the foreign base oii reiated income dass: 

1. The extraction exception: income, inciuding income from operating a pipeiine, 
derived from a source within a foreign country in connection with oii or gas which 
was extracted by any person from a weli iocated in such foreign country is not treat- 
ed as foreign base company oii related income: ^ and 

2. The consumption exertion: income, including income from operating a pipeline, 
derived from a source within a foreign country in connection with oil or gas (or a 
primary product thereof) which is sold by the CFC or a related person for use or 
consumption within the foreign country is not foreign base company oil related in- 
come.® 

In addition, there is a general exception for CFCs which do not produce 1,000 bar- 
rels per day of foreign crude oil and natural gas.'^ This exception, however, often 
is not available because for this purpose all related persons are aggregated, and 
many significant investors in natural gas pipelines and power projects around the 
world own foreign production which exceeds 1,000 barrels per day. Indeed, this lim- 
ited exception is particularly non-competitive as it applies to production in Canada. 

All types of foreign base company income exc^t foreign oil related income may 
be excluded from current taxation under Subpart F if the income is subject to an 
effective rate of local income tax greater than 90 percent of the U .S. corporate rate.® 
No reason is given in the legislative history as to why this high tax exception is 
not applicable to foreign oil related income. 

The Subpart F taxation of foreign oil related income was enacted in the Tax Eq- 
uity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982 ('TEFRA"), P.L. 97-248, September 3, 
1982. The legislative history explaining the tax policy rationale for the Subpart F 
treatment of foreign oil and gas income is as follows: 

[Bjecause of the fungible nature of oil and because of the complex structures 
involved, oil income is particularly suited to tax haven type operations. 

S. Rep. No. 494, 97th Cong., 2d Sess. 150 (1982). 

The only other reference made in the legislative history of TEFRA to any reason 
for including foreign oil related income in Subpart F is the general statement of the 
Finance Committee that "the petroleum companies have paid little or no U.S. tax 
on their foreign subsidiaries' operations despite their extremely high revenue." Id. 
Accordingly, Subpart F taxation was imposed on all foreign oil related income with- 
out analysis of whether such income fit the criteria of Subpart F, i.e, was passive 
in nature or moveable. Income from the ownership and operation of foreign gas 
pipelines is neither passive or moveable. Moreover, it is unlikely that such income 
could have been a target of TEFRA because INGAA members only began building 
pipelines outside the United States in the 1990s. 

As described above, CFCs owned by INGAA members participate in large foreign 
projects which typically involve the construction and operation of gas pipelines and 
related facilities, sometimes include the participation in power plants, and occasion- 
ally also include investment in gas wells. These are all active business activities 
which have become common only in recent years. This foreign income of CFCs 
owned by INGAA members is no more "particularly suited to tax haven operations" 
(as the Senate Finance Committee Report states) than is any foreign manufacturing 
or processing activity conducted by a CFC, such as the manufacture of consumer 
or industrial goods. Surely it is not possible to "manipulate" income earned by a 
CFC from operating a gas pipeline permanently installed in a particular foreign 
country. 

Most U.S. bidders have generally only won projects where either the "extraction" 
or "consumption" exceptions to Subpart F treatment applied. If a pipeline project 
does not qualify for one of these exceptions to Subpart F it is unlikely that a U.S. 
bidder could successfully win a bid for that project against foreign competitors. In- 
deed, such a U.S. bidder is at a competitive disadvantage even for projects with local 
income taxes higher than the U.S. corporate rate because the Subpart F exception 
for high-tax income does not apply. 

Moreover, the exceptions to Subpart F for foreign oil related income apply irra- 
tionally. Consider the example where gas is extracted and processed by persons un- 
related to the CFC in country A. The CFC constructs a pipeline from country A 
through country B and into country C where the gas is delivered to a power plant. 


= Section 954(g)(1)(A). 
® Section 954(g)(1)(B). 
^Section 954(g)(2). 
^Section 954(b)(4). 



197 


Assume that the CFC receives $100 for transportation of the gas in each of coun- 
tries A, B, and C, and that each country imposes tax on the CFC of $35. The U.S. 
taxation of the $300 of income is as foiiows: 

Country A— The $100 is not subpart F income because the extraction exception 
appiies— the income is derived from country A where the gas was extracted. 

Country 6— The $100 is Subpart F income, currentiy taxed in United States be- 
cause the income is not earned either in a country where the gas was extracted 
(Country A) or consumed (Country C). 

Country C— The $100 is Subpart F income if the CFC does not own the gas but 
instead charges a tariff for transportation. Fiowever, if the CFC takes titie to the 
gas and seiis it in country C, the consumption exception appiies and the $100 is 
not Subpart F income. 

As a matter of tax poiicy, different tax treatment of each separate $100 of income 
cannot bejustified. None of this $300 of income shouid be Subpart F income because 
it is not passive or moveabie. Moreover, because, as expiained below, INGAA mem- 
bers are frequently in an excess foreign tax credit position, there are many in- 
stances in which a foreign tax credit is not available to offset the current U.S. tax 
on subpart F income from the operation of foreign pipelines by a CFC, with the re- 
sult that international double taxation occurs. 

B. Foreign Tax Credit 

U.S. persons are subject to U.S. income tax on their worldwide income. To elimi- 
nate international double taxation, i.e, the taxation of the same income by more 
than one tax authority, the United States allows a credit against the U.S. tax on 
foreign source income for foreign income taxes paid.® The amount of credits that a 
taxpayer may claim for foreign taxes paid is subject to a limitation intended to pre- 
vent taxpayers from using foreign tax credits to offset U.S. tax on U.S. source in- 
come.“ The foreign tax credit limitation is calculated separately for specific cat- 
egories of income.ii Generally speaking, the foreign income activities conducted by 
INGAA members, such as operating pipelines to transport natural gas in foreign 
countries, produce "active basket" (sometimes referred to as "general basket") for- 
eign source income. Income from the extraction of oil and gas is also generally "ac- 
tive basket" income, although foreign oil and gas extraction income taxes are cred- 
itable only to the extent that they do not exceed 35 percent of the extraction in- 
come. 12 

The "separate basket" approach of current law was instituted in the Tax Reform 
Act of 1986. In 1986 Congress expressed a concern that the overall foreign tax credit 
limitation permitted a "cross crediting" or averaging of taxes so that high foreign 
taxes on one stream of income could be offset against U.S. tax otherwise due on only 
lightly taxed foreign income. Nevertheless, in 1986 Congress endorsed the overall 
limitation as being "consistent with the integrated nature of U.S. multi-national op- 
erations abroad," and therefore concluded that averaging credits for taxes paid on 
active income earned anywhere in the world should generally be allowed to con- 
tinue. Congress limited the cross crediting of foreign taxes when it would "distort 
the purpose of the foreign tax credit limitation. "i'* For example, one identified con- 
cern was the use of portfolio investments in stock in publicly-traded companies, 
which could quickly and easily be made in foreign countries rather than in the 
United States. I n order to limit the opportunities for cross-crediting. Congress added 
additional baskets for income that frequently either bore little foreign tax or abnor- 
mally high foreign tax, or was readily manipulable as to source. The baskets en- 
acted in 1986 included passive income, financial services income, shipping income, 
high withholding tax interest, and dividends from non-control led section 902 cor- 
poration s.i® 

Current law, which treats all income from the transportation of natural gas 
through a foreign pipeline as active basket income, is clearly the correct result. 
INGAA members, however, are frequently in an excess foreign tax credit position 
because of the substantial interest expense on debt incurred to finance domestic cap- 
ital expenditures which is apportioned to foreign source income, reducing the nu- 
merator of the foreign tax credit limitation which in turn reduces the amount of the 


^Section 901(a). 

Section 904(a). 
bisection 904(d). 

Insertion 907. 

i^General Explanation of the Tax Reform Act of 1986, 99th Cong., 2d Sess. 862 (1986) ("1986 
Blue Book"). 

14 /d. 

15H.R. Conf. Rep. No. 841, 99th Cong., 2d Sess. 564-66 (1986). 



198 


foreign tax credit. Thus, as a practicai matter it is difficuit for a U.S. pipeiine com- 
pany to obtain foreign tax credits with respect to the income earned from its foreign 
operations.^^ Such companies, however, shouid not be preciuded from using avaii- 
abie credits. 


II. The Administration's Proposal 

On February 1, 1999, the Administration put forth the Proposai which wouid re- 
suit in a substantiai change in the taxation of foreign oii and gas income. The Pro- 
posai wouid treat aii foreign income taxes paid by a CFC reiating to oii and gas 
income, inciuding income from the transportation of gas through a pipeiine, as being 
subject to a separate foreign tax credit iimitation instead of being inciuded as part 
of the "generai basket" of active income. 

In the General Explanation of the Proposal, the Treasury Department does not 
articulate any reason for creating a separate basket for foreign oil and gas income 
under the foreign tax credit limitation. In its "Description of Revenue Provisions 
Contained in the President's Fiscal Year 2000 Budget Proposal," issued February 
22, 1999, the Staff of the J oint Committee on Taxation stated that the proposal 
"may provide some simplification by eliminating issues that arise under present law 
in distinguishing between income that qualifies as extraction income and income 
that qualifies as oil related income." 

The policy rationale of simplification does not apply to pipeline companies, which 
do not have extraction income. Accordingly, there is no policy justification for sepa- 
rating foreign oil and gas transportation income from other active income for pur- 
poses of the foreign tax credit limitation. Moreover, separating foreign oil and gas 
income into a separate foreign tax credit limitation basket would be contrary to the 
general principle of the separate basket regime enacted by Congress in 1986 that 
all active business income should be included in one foreign tax credit limitation 
basket to enable the cross-crediting of all taxes on such income. 

The Proposal would materially harm U.S. businesses, affecting U.S. jobs and U.S. 
competitiveness in the global economy. The effect of the Proposal would be to limit 
further the amount of foreign tax credits available to I NGAA members and preclude 
most U.S. investors from successfully bidding for the capital-intensive foreign pipe- 
line projects. This would significantly hinder a thriving business currently available 
to I NGAA members. This business creates a demand for U.S. jobs, particularly engi- 
neering and support services. Elimination of most U.S. pipeline companies from par- 
ticipating in foreign pipeline projects seems to INGAA to be wholly counter- 
productive and misguided tax policy which would cost U.S. jobs. 

In addition, the Proposal would apply to projects already completed and in oper- 
ation. U.S. investors would therefore realize returns different from their economic 
projections, with materially adverse financial statement impacts. In short, enact- 
ment of the Proposal would create profound economic harm for INGAA members 
with foreign pipeline activities. 


III. Recommendations 

A. Rd'orm the Subpart F Taxation of Foreign Oil-Related Income As It Applies to 
Gas Pipelines 

Current law includes all foreign oil related income in Subpart F income. It is 
I NCAA's position that the ownership and operation of gas pipelines and other im- 
movable assets in foreign countries as described herein should never result in Sub- 
part F income, whether or not the activities occur in a country where the gas was 
extracted or consumed, and whether or not the CFC takes title to the gas being 
transported, because these activities do not produce income which is passive or ma- 
nipulable. Accordingly, we urge the Committee to support FI.R. 1127, introduced by 
Representatives McCrery and Watkins which clarifies the treatment of pipeline 
transportation income, and section 105 of FI.R. 2018, "International Tax Simplifica- 


1^1 n the example described above, although the $200 of income frm Countries B and C would 
be subject to U.S. tax under Subpart F, it is unlikely that the $70 of foreign income taxes paid 
to Countries B and C would be available as a foreign tax credit to offset the U.S. tax on such 
income. As a result, there would be international double taxation of the $200 of income. 

Staff of thej t. Com. on Tax., 106th Cong., 1st Sess., Description of Revenue Provisions Con- 
tained in the President's Fiscal Year 2000 Budget Proposal, 310 (Comm. Print 1999). 

i^Shipping and financial services income, which are both active income, were subjected to sep- 
arate basket treatment in 1986, either because the income "frequently" bore little foreign tax 
or abnormally high foreign tax or was manipulable as to source. 1986 Blue Book at 863-64. The 
income from operating foreign gas pipelines is not more frequently subject to either abnormally 
high or low foreign tax than manufacturing income, nor is it manipulable as to source. 



199 


tion for American Competitiveness Act of 1999" introduced by Representatives 
Houghton and Levin. Both biiis wouid exciude income from the transportation of oii 
and gas by pipeiine from subpart F income. At a minimum, (i) the consumption ex- 
ception shouid be amended to appiy in the same manner as the extraction exception, 
/.e, its appiication shouid not be dependent upon whether the CFC takes titie to 
the gas it is transporting, and (ii) the high-tax exception to foreign base company 
income shouid be amended so that it appiies to foreign base company oii related in- 
come as it does to all other foreign base company income. 

B. Rqect the Ad mini strati on Proposai 

The Proposal should be rejected. As applied to foreign gas pipelines, there is no 
tax policy justification for the Proposal. It is inconsistent with the separate basket 
approach of current law and would preclude most U.S. investors from successfully 
bidding for the capital-intensive foreign pipeline projects. It also could result in a 
substantial "tax increase" for INGAA members that own foreign gas pipelines. 

INGAA appreciates the opportunity to provide this statement and would be 
pleased to furnish any information requested by the Committee. 


Statement of the I nvestment Company I nstitute 

The Investment Company Institute (the "I nstitute") ^ urges the Committee to en- 
hance the international competitiveness of U.S. mutual funds, treated for federal tax 
purposes as "regulated investment companies" or "RICs," by enacting legislation 
that would treat certain interest income and short-term capital gains as exempt 
from U.S. withholding tax when distributed by U.S. funds to foreign investors.^ The 
proposed change merely would provide foreign investors in U.S. funds with the same 
treatment available today when comparable investments are made either directly or 
through foreign funds. 

I. The U.S. Fund Industry is the Global Leader 

Individuals around the world increasingly are turning to mutual funds to meet 
their diverse investment needs. Worldwide mutual fund assets have increased from 
$2.4 trillion at the end of 1990 to $7.6 trillion as of September 30, 1998. This growth 
in mutual fund assets is expected to continue as the middle class continues to ex- 
pand around the world and baby boomers enter their peak savings years. 

U.S. mutual funds offer numerous advantages. Foreign investors may buy U.S. 
funds for professional portfolio management, diversification and liquidity. Investor 
confidence in our funds is strong because of the significant shareholder safeguards 
provided by the U.S. securities laws. Investors also value the convenient share- 
holder services provided by U.S. funds. 

Nevertheless, while the U.S. fund industry is the global leader, foreign investment 
in U.S. funds is low. Today, less than one percent of all U.S. fund assets are held 
by non-U .S. investors. 

II. U.S. Tax Policy Encourages Foreign Investment in the 
U.S. Capital Markets 

Pursuant to U.S. tax policy designed to encourage foreign portfolio investment^ 
in the U.S. capital markets, U.S. tax law provides foreign investors with several 
U.S. withholding tax exemptions. U.S. withholding tax generally does not apply, for 
example, to capital gains realized by foreign investors on their portfolio investments 
in U.S. debt and equity securities. Likewise, U.S. withholding tax generally does not 


^The Investment Company Institute is the nationai association of the American investment 
company industry. Its membership inciudes 7,576 open-end investment companies ("mutuai 
funds"), 479 ciosed-end investment companies and 8 sponsors of unit investment trusts. Its mu- 
tual fund members have assets of about $5,860 trillion, accounting for approximately 95% of 
total industry assets, and have over 73 million individual shareholders. 

^The U.S. statutory withholding tax rate imposed on non-exempt income paid to foreign inves- 
tors is 30 percent. U.S. income tax treaties typically reduce the withholding tax rate to 15 per- 
cent. 

^"Portfolio investment" typically refers to a less than 10 percent interest in the debt or equity 
securities of an issuer, which interest is not "effectively" connected to a U.S. trade or business 
of the investor. 



200 


apply to U.S. source interest paid to foreign investors with respect to "portfolio in- 
terest obligations" and certain other debt instruments. Consequently, foreign port- 
folio investment in U.S. debt instruments generally is exempt from U.S. withholding 
tax; with respect to portfolio investment in U.S. ^uity securities, U.S. withholding 
tax generally is imposed only on dividends. 

III. U.S. Tax Law, However, I nadvertently Encourages Foreigners to Prefer 
Foreign Funds Over U.S. Funds 

Regrettably, the incentives to encourage foreign portfolio investment are of only 
limited applicability when investments in U.S. securities are made through a U.S. 
fund. Under U.S. tax law, a U.S. fund's distributions are treated as "dividends" sub- 
ject to U.S. withholding tax unless a special "designation" provision allows the fund 
to "flow through" the character of its income to investors. Of importance to foreign 
investors, a U.S. fund may designate a distribution of long-term gain to its share- 
holders as a "capital gain dividend" exempt from U.S. withholding tax. 

For certain other types of distributions, however, foreign investors are placed at 
a U.S. tax disadvantage. In particular, interest income and short-term capital gains, 
which otherwise would be exempt from U.S. withholding tax when received by for- 
eign investors either directly or through a foreign fund, are subject to U.S. with- 
holding tax when distributed by a U.S. fund to these investors. 

IV. Congress Should Enact Legislation Eliminating U.S. Tax Barriers to 
Foreign Investment In U.S. Funds 

The Institute urges the Committee to support the enactment of H.R. 2430,"^ which 
generally would permit all U.S. funds to preserve, for withholding tax purposes, the 
character of short-term gains and interest income distributed to foreign investors.^ 

For these purposes, U.S. -source interest and foreign -source interest that is free 
from foreign withholding tax under the domestic tax laws of the source country 
(such as interest from "Eurobonds"^ would be eligible for flow-through treatment. 
The legislation, however, would deny flow-through treatment for interest from any 
foreign bond on which the source-country tax rate is reduced pursuant to a tax trea- 
ty with the United States. 

The Institute fully supports H.R. 2430 because it would eliminate the U.S. with- 
holding tax barrier to foreign investment in U.S. funds, while containing appro- 
priate safeguards to ensure that (1) flow-through treatment applies only to interest 
income and gains that would be exempt from U.S. withholding tax if received by 
a foreign investor directly or through a foreign fund and (2) foreign investors cannot 
avoid otherwise-applicable foreign tax by investing in U.S. funds that qualify for 
treaty benefits under the U .S. income tax treaty network. 

The Institute urges the enactment of legislation to make the full panoply of U.S. 
funds— equity, balanced and bond funds— available to foreign investors without ad- 
verse U.S. withholding tax treatment. Absent this change, foreign investors seeking 
to enter the U .S. capital markets or obtain access to U.S. professional portfolio man- 
agement will continue to have a significant U.S. tax incentive not to invest in U.S. 
funds. 


‘‘Introduced by Representatives Crane, Dunn and McDermott as the "I nvestment Competitive- 
ness Act of 1999." 

^The taxation of U.S. investors in U.S. funds wouid not be affected by these proposais. 

^"Eurobonds" are corporate or government bonds denominated in a currency other than the 
nationai currency of the issuer, inciuding U.S. doiiars. Eurobonds are an important source of 
capitai for muitinationai companies. 



201 


J 01 NT Venture: Silicon Valley Network 
San J ose, California, 95113-1605 

J uly 6, 1999 

A.L. Singleton, Chid" of Staff, 

Committee on Ways and Means 
U.S. House of Representatives 
Washington, DC. 

Re: Hearing on the Impact of U.S. Tax Rules on International Competitiveness 

The following comments are being submitted on behalf of J oint Venture: Silicon 
Valley Network. Joint Venture: Silicon Valley Network is a non-profit dynamic 
model for regional rejuvenation. Our vision is to build a sustainable community col- 
laborating to compete globally. J oint Venture brings people together from business, 
government, education, and the community to identify and act on regional issues af- 
fecting economic vitality and quality of life.i 

The Importance of the Global Marketplace 

In order for companies in the high-tech sector to thrive, including those in Silicon 
Valley, they must expand their business outside the United States. One critical rea- 
son for developing worldwide markets is to spread large R&D and other develop- 
mental costs over the largest possible product base in order to keep prices low in 
a highly competitive global economy. Perhaps the most important message that Con- 
gress can give businesses in the United States is through the tax provisions relating 
to the treatment of international operations of U.S. -based companies. Congress can 
encourage or discourage the expansion of U.S. companies outside the United States. 
Congressional action will make a great deal of difference with regard to whether 
U.S. businesses will thrive in the 21st century. Tax policy needs to be formulated 
on a long-term basis and it needs to encourage U.S. businesses, especially those in 
the high-tech sector, to expand outside the United States. Any efforts to modify 
international tax rules should consider how tax policy— can support trade policy, 
international competitiveness, simplification, and the reality that today's global 
economy is not the one that existed when some of these international rules were 
created years ago. 


U.S. Tax Policy is U.S. Trade Policy 

Tax policy should not impede trade policy. To that end, changes in U.S. tax policy 
should consider global tax trends, such as converging corporate income tax rates, 
and strive for reducing complexity. Converging corporate income tax rates around 
the world make a strong case for territorial-based tax systems, which reduce com- 
plexity. U.S. tax policy should encourage "headquarters" activities, such as research 
and development and non-commodity manufacturing, that will in turn produce high- 
er profits in the future and higher U.S. wages. If changes to the current inter- 
national tax rules are made without full consideration of all factors of today's global 
economy, economic growth in the United States could be adversely affected. Finally, 
U.S. international tax reform should occur within the context of global business and 
economic trends with a goal of designing tax policy that does not impede trade pol- 
icy or is inconsistent with tax trends around the world. 

Economic Tax Models 

An appropriate starting point to understanding international taxation related to 
foreign transactions is to compare the current U.S. system to classic economic tax 


iThis letter represents the collective views of the Tax Policy Group within the Council on Tax 
& Fiscal Policy of J oint Venture: Silicon Valley Network (described on the last page of this let- 
ter), and not necessarily the views of any individual member of theTax Policy Group. This letter 
is a summary of a lar^r Tax Policy Group position paper on International Tax Reform, which 
is expected to be published soon. The primary draftsperson of this letter was William C. Barrett 
(Applied Materials, Inc.). The ideas expressed in this letter represent thejoint efforts of the fol- 
lowing members of the Tax Policy Group: J im Cigler (PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP), Harry Cox 
(Aspec Technology Corporation), Randy George (Adaptec Corporation), Dan Kostenhauder (Hew- 
lett Packard, Inc.), Larry Langdon (Hewlett Packard, Inc.), Suzanne Luttman (Santa Clara Uni- 
versity), Annette Nellen (San J ose State University), Sandra Olsen (Solectron Corporation), and 
Don Scott (Oracle Corporation). 



202 


models. There are two classic economic models in the area of foreign taxation: cap- 
ital export neutrality (CEN) and capital import neutrality (CIN). 

The CEN concept holds that an item of income, regardless of where it is earned, 
should bear a global rate of tax equivalent to the home country tax rate. As applied 
in the U.S., the CEN model allows a foreign tax credit to a U.S. corporation facing 
U.S. taxation on it's worldwide income in order to reduce the risk of double taxation 
of the foreign earnings. Under the CEN model, tax rates are equivalent for investors 
residing in the same country. 

Under a CIN model, tax rates are equivalent for all investment located in the 
same country. If such a model were used in the U.S., foreign income would not be 
taxed in the United States in the year in which it is earned or when received as 
a dividend. Territorial-based tax systems (e.g.. The Netherlands and France) are 
patterned after the CIN concept where a country only taxes income earned within 
its borders. Under CIN, income would be allocated between U.S. and foreign oper- 
ations based on functions and risks performed in the respective geographic locations. 

The U.S. tax system is a hybrid approach with characteristics of both the classic 
CEN and CIN models. Except for certain proscribed activities (e.g., subpart F), the 
U.S. tax system is best described as a system based on deferral, where income 
earned offshore in a separate legal entity is not taxed until distributed (paid as a 
dividend of the foreign earnings) back to the U.S. The U.S. hybrid system includes 
incentives to encourage U.S. -based research, manufacturing, and export. 

Numerous studies exist that debate the relative merits of the CEN vs. CIN eco- 
nomic models.2 Flowever, fewer studies exist that debate the [practical] distinctions 
between the two models. Practical considerations would include thefollowing: 

1. Global tax rates around the world for major trading partners are converging.^ 
This global tax trend leads to the conclusion that, net of foreign tax credit, the U.S. 
government gains little by taxing foreign earnings. 

2. Studies have shown that the amount of foreign taxes paid by U.S. multi- 
nationals are matched closely with the amount of foreign tax credit claimed on their 
U.S. returns.^ Therefore, the amount of U.S. tax revenue generated by taxing for- 
eign earned income may be insignificant. In the interest of simplicity, the extremely 
complex provisions in the Internal Revenue Code that trigger 'deemed' income inclu- 
sions make little sense. 

3. Global mergers involving U.S. companies (e.g., Daimler/Chrysler) are becoming 
more common. Integration of the global marketplace and financial markets portends 
of an increase in these global mergers. These mergers provide an opportunity for 
the parties to re-evaluate their global tax structure and as a result, U.S. companies 
may have the opportunity to create a 'territorial' tax base for U.S. operations when 
the foreign party becomes the parent company of the newly merged global operation. 
Again, poli^ makers should seriously re-evaluate whether the taxation of foreign 
earned income makes any sense (1) when a territorial tax base is possible through 
global restructuring, and (2) under our worldwide-based taxation system with a for- 
eign tax credit operating in a world with converging corporate tax rates. 

4. The IRS and the U.S. Treasury adopted extensive transfer pricing regulations, 
and Congress enacted related penalty provisions, in 1993. Foreign governments in 
turn have adopted many of the conc^ts in these U.S. regulations. In addition, the 
'Advanced Pricing Agreement' program has been used extensively by U.S. multi- 
nationals and the IRS where the IRS and U.S. multinational agree prospectively to 
transfer pricing methodologies. Consistency in global transfer pricing practices por- 


^For example. Overview of Present-Law Rules and Economic Issues in International Taxation, 
J oint Committee on Taxation, March 9, 1999, J CX- 13-99. 

^For example, see J effrey Owens, "Emerging Issues in Tax Reform: The Perspective of an 
International Bureaucrat," Tax Notes International, December 22, 1997. Nominal tax rates tend 
to converge around 30-40%. 

‘‘In an article written by Sarah Nutter, Assistant Professor at George Mason University, and 
attached to the 1997 IRS Statistics of Income Bulletin, Prof. Nutter points out that U.S. multi- 
nationals paid $23.7 billion of foreign taxes in 1993 and claimed $22.9 billion of foreign tax cred- 
its (see Tax Notes International, J anuary 12, 1998, p. 89). The $600 million differential raises 
interesting observations, which seem to lead to the conclusion that the U.S. fiscal gains little 
by taxing foreign earned income of U.S. multinationals. For example, if the assumption is made 
that the $600 million differential are taxes associated with 'low-tax' offshore earnings (e.g., 10% 
tax rate earnings), the base income 'deferred' offshore would be $6 billion. The tax rate differen- 
tial between the 10% and 35% U.S. tax rate would lead one to the conclusion that only $1.5 
billion tax was deferred by U.S. multinationals. If these conclusions are correct, Congress should 
seriously question whether it makes sense to retain unnecessarily complex provisions of the U.S. 
Tax Code, such as subpart F, that tax these foreign earnings. Eliminating subpart F provisions 
of the Code, with the possible exception for incorporation of 'offshore pocket books', or adopting 
a 'territorial' based tax system are equally compelling and would eliminate unnecessary com- 
plication without sacrificing significant tax revenue. 



203 


tends of more efficient transfer pricing audit resolution. These very significant de- 
velopments to proper allocation of cross-border income eliminate many of the con- 
cerns the Kennedy administration had in 1962 when subpart F, and other anti-de- 
ferral provisions, were enacted. 

These practical observations lead to a very compelling argument that when there 
are minimal [practical] distinctions between CEN, CIN, or the U.S. hybrid method, 
the U.S. government should align international tax reform with a model that is the 
easiest to administer. From a U.S. tax revenue perspective, it matters little whether 
foreign earned income is taxed at all in the United States when U.S. tax on this 
income is offset by foreign tax credits that on average, are very close to the U.S. 
statutory tax rate. Repealing anti-deferral provisions in the U.S. tax code would be 
a tremendous tax simplification step with minimal downside tax revenue loss. Aspir- 
ing towards international tax simplification is an attainable pursuit in this increas- 
ingly integrated global economy and convergence of tax rates around the world. 

Global Economic and Business Trends 

The Brookings Institution analyzed the impact that trade barriers have on trade 
balance and export-related jobs.^ The report concludes that trade barriers increase 
the cost of an exported product and, as a result, reduce the number of high-paying 
jobs in export-related industries. Therefore, it stands to reason that by reducing 
trade barriers, U.S. companies are able to support a higher wage base and focus on 
new product innovation that accompanies these higher-paying and export-related 
jobs. Extending the Brookings report logic, U.S. tax policy that increases the tax 
cost of export-related products will suppress high wage U.S. export- related jobs. 

Global business consolidation is a trend seen across numerous industries. This 
trend hints of a more subtle evolution which is the consolidation of core "head- 
quarters" functions. Core "headquarters" functions encompass research and develop- 
ment: centralized corporate functions, such as office of the Chief Executive Officer 
wherein global policy setting occurs for multinationals: and non-commodity manu- 
facturing related to new product development. These functions are primary profit 
drivers for a multinational company and are critical to product innovation.® For 
many companies, there is one centralized headquarters location. Understanding the 
"headquarters" relationship is important in developing tax policy because a tax pol- 
icy that encourages locating these functions in the U.S. will reap a higher U.S. prof- 
it base, higher wages, a stronger local economy, and future U.S. innovation that per- 
petuates the cycle. 

Calls TO Abolish "Corporate Welfare" Miss the Point 

"Anti -deferral" legislation (eg., "runaway plant" type legislation) is popular within 
protectionist camps."^ The concern from these groups is that when U.S. multi- 
national corporations invest in offshore manufacturing locations it is being done 
solely to reduce U.S. labor costs. The protectionist fears are largely unfounded con- 
sidering the global trends discussed above and should be resisted. Multinationals 
will locate major income-producing functions (i.e., "headquarters" functions) where 
they can achieve the highest rate of return in terms of both human capability and 


^Globaphobia: The Wrong Debate Over Trade Policy, by Robert Z. Lawrence and Robert E. 
Litan, September 1997, http:/ / www.brook.edu/ comm/ pdicybrid's/ pb024/ pb24.htm. The Brook- 
ings report states that export reiated jobs on average pay 15% more than the average U.S. wage. 
The Bank of Montreai pubiished a survey (Trade And Investment In The Americas, Survey of 
North American Businesses, Bank of Montreai/H arris Bank) reveaiing that after impiementa- 
tion of NAFTA, 47% of aii North American businesses have gained empioyees whiie another 41% 
empioy about the same number of empioyees. Oniy 11% of the surveyed firms iost empioyees. 
Further, the Hudson I nstitute has pubiished a sequei to its study Workforce 2000 that reinforces 
many of these conciusions (Workforce 2020, Work and Workers in the 21st Century, Hudson I n- 
stitute, Indianapoiis Indiana, 1997). 

®Gary Hufbauer, U.S. Taxation of I nternationai Income, Blueprint for Reform, Institute for 
International Economics, October 1992, characterizes "headquarters" activities as "incubators of 
human capital." "Non-commodity manufacturing" is used in this context to distinguish between 
lower profit "commodity" manufacturing. In an increasingly global marketplace, sound business 
governance dictates that to remain competitive in selling commodity products, business must 
seek lower cost production sites, leaving higher profit and higher paying wage jobs associated 
with "non-commodity" high-tech products in the United States. 

^See for example, S. 1597 as proposed by Senator] ohn Dorgan (R-S. Dakota.) in March 1996 
and Amendment No. 5223 (Sept. 11, 1996). S. 1597 would have taxed offshore income associated 
with the sale of goods back into the U.S. The Asian economic crisis has heightened concerns 
from economists and business leaders that politicians may respond to price reductions with pro- 
tectionist legislation which might in turn lead to deterioration of the global economy (see for 
example Wall Street J ournal, J anuary 5, 1998, editorial page). 



204 


financial return on investment and it is these "headquarters" functions that attract 
economic income. Concerns about losing low- wage/low-tech jobs misinterpret global 
trends and the factors that promote economic growth and improve wages in the 
United States. 

The ongoing debate about whether to further restrict deferral is engaged in by 
parties that view the world from different perspectives. There are those who believe 
that eliminating deferral for the foreign earnings of U.S. -based companies while the 
foreign earnings of foreign-based competitors obtain the advantages of tax-sparing 
treaties or territorial tax systems puts U.S. companies at a major competitive dis- 
advantage that works to the detriment of the entire U.S. economy. On the other side 
are those who focus on the potential loss of U .S. manufacturing jobs that could occur 
because U.S. companies would be attracted to foreign, low-tax jurisdictions. 

Perhaps the most interesting way to think of these alternative views is through 
the prism of trade policy. The U.S. has been a leader since the middle of this cen- 
tury in dropping barriers to the free flow of goods and services across international 
boundaries. It is generally recognized that such a liberal trade policy has provided 
great economic benefits to all the countries of the world, including the Unites 
States. I n the same vein, it is likely that allowing capital to flow more freely across 
borders will have a beneficial impact on U.S. and global economies. If some of the 
proposed anti-deferral legislation were adopted, the United States would be the first 
major country to eliminate deferral of income from active business activity. This 
would make U.S. companies less competitive without providing significant offsetting 
benefits. 


Contact Information 

Any questions on our comments should be directed to either Bill Barrett, Chair 
of the Tax Policy Group's International Tax Reform Subcommittee at (408) 235- 
4389 or barrett— bill@!\MAT.com, or Annette Nellen, Chair of the Tax Policy Group, 
at (408) 924-3508 or anellencgynn.com. 

Sincerely, 

Larry Langdon 

Vice President: Tax, Licensing, & Customs 
Hewlett Packard 
Co-Chairs, Council on Tax and Fiscal Policy 

J ane Decker 
Deputy County Executive 
County of Santa Clara 

J oint Venture: Silicon Valley Network (www.jointventure.org) is a non-profit dy- 
namic model for regional rejuvenation. Our vision is to build a sustainable commu- 
nity collaborating to compete globally. J oint Venture brings people together from 
business, government, education, and the community to identify and act on regional 
issues affecting economic vitality and quality of life. One of OUl initiatives is the 
Council on Tax and Fiscal Policy. 

Council on Tax & Fiscal Policy and the Tax Policy Group: The mission of 
the Council on Tax and Fiscal Policy is to bring together Silicon Valley's public and 
private sectors to identify common tax and fiscal needs and to work for mutually 
beneficial policy change at the regional, state, and federal levels. The Council cham- 
pions reform by crafting legislation, supporting legislation, conducting special anal- 
ysis, and serving as an educational forum. The Council's Tax Policy Group consists 
of individuals from high tech industry, government, and academia who analyze var- 
ious state and federal tax rules and proposals to consider the impact to local govern- 
ments and high tech industries. The Group's current work encompasses inter- 
national tax reform, worker classification, R&D incentives, major federal tax reform, 
incentives for donations of technology to K-14, and sales tax issues of electronic 
commerce. The Group works to promote better understanding of tax and fiscal 
issues of significance to the Silicon Valley economy, through distribution of its re- 
ports and quarterly tax and fiscal newsletter, sponsorship of seminars and discus- 
sion forums, and submission of testimony to legislators and tax administrators. 



205 


NED Holdings Corporation 
Whippany, NJ , 07981 

J une28, 1999 

The Honorable Bill Archer, Chairman 
Committee on Ways and Means 
US. House of Representatives 
Washington, DC. 

Re: Hearing on International Tax Rules, J une 30, 1999 

Dear Representatives Archer and Rangel: 

We greatly appreciate your efforts to examine the United States' international tax 
policy and its impact on U.S. -control led shipping companies. Your attention to this 
matter, as well as the Shaw-J efferson bill, H.R. 265, which is pending before the 
Committee, are the first vital steps toward strengthening the U.S. -controlled for- 
eign-flag shipping industry and restoring the United States' competitive opportuni- 
ties internationally. 

General Ore International Corporation Limited (GOIC Ltd.) is one of the largest 
American-controlled industrial shippers of iron ore and liquid petroleum products in 
world markets, and it is one of the last corporations, privately-owned by U.S. citi- 
zens, that operates foreign-flag vessels. Nevertheless, GOIC Ltd. is a very small op- 
erator compared to its international competitors. 

Our continued success is dependent upon our ability to compete fairly and openly 
in the international market. However, burdensome U.S. tax policies have hindered 
our ability to compete. Shipping income earned by GOIC Ltd. is subject to taxation 
under Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code regardless of whether that income 
is reinvested in the business. 

Subpart F, enacted in 1962, imposes taxes on certain U.S. -owned businesses oper- 
ating abroad that are more onerous than if those businesses were operating in the 
United States. As originally enacted, U.S. -control led foreign shipping companies 
were not subject to Subpart F and were taxed no differently than their competi- 
tors— their earnings were not taxed until they were repatriated. In 1975, this 
changed. Congress amended Subpart F to limit the deferral of foreign flag shipping 
income so that income not reinvested into shipping operations was taxed currently. 
As a result, the industry and the tax revenues it produced began to decline. 

In 1986, Congress eliminated the deferral for reinvested income. Now the income 
from the U.S. -control led foreign fleet is subject to U.S. tax whether or not those rev- 
enues are realized. This places companies like ours at a competitive disadvantage 
relative to our competitors, which are not subject to these taxes. Further, the United 
States cannot compete effectively in international markets with its major trading 
partners that have adopted tax policies and incentives to support their international 
shipping industries and, through them, their exports. 

Extending Subpart F to shipping income has devastated the U.S. -control led for- 
eign shipping industry. Before 1975, U.S. -owned foreign-flag shipping companies 
controlled 25 percent of the world's fleet. Because of the tax burdens imposed by 
Subpart F, that number has declined to less than 5 percent today. This anti-com- 
petitive tax regime has reduced new ship acquisition, and it has resulted in U.S. 
owners becoming minority owners in the vessels they once owned and operated. 

The U.S. government has gained nothing from extending Subpart F to shipping 
income. While the tax imposed upon this industry was originally designed to gen- 
erate revenues, it has cost the U.S. Treasury millions of dollars. Please see the en- 
closed analysis by KPMG Company. In addition, U.S. national security is eroding 
with the declining sealift capability. 

The U.S. Congress must take action to restore the industry's competitive opportu- 
nities with its foreign trading partners. We encourage the Ways and Means Com- 
mittee to move H.R. 265 through the House. Under the proposed legislation, taxes 
would be deferred, not exempted, and would be paid into the U.S. Treasury when 
repatriated. The bill allows growth in the U.S. -control led fleet and restores the abil- 
ity of U.S citizens to be active competitors in the global market. Without immediate 
action, the United States risks losing the few remaining U.S. -controlled shipping 
companies to countries whosetax laws are more favorable. 

Thank you for your attention to this matter. We look forward to working with you 
and the Ways and Means Committee to address this important issue. If you or your 



206 


staff would like any additional information, please contact my Washington counsel, 
Warren L. Dean of Thompson Coburn LLP, at (202) 508-1004. 

Very truly yours, 

Richard W. Neu 

[Attachment is being retained in Committee files.] 


Seaboard Corporation 
Washington, DC, 20006 

J uly 7, 1999. 

Hon. Bill Archer, Chairman, 

House Ways & Means Committee, 

Washington, DC 

Re: J une 30, 1999 Committee Hearing on the Impact of U.S. Tax Rules on Inter- 
national Competitiveness 

Dear Chairman Archer: 

Seaboard Marine commends the Chairman and Committee for holding its recent 
hearing on the international tax regime. We appreciate the opportunity to submit 
this statement regarding critical changes that are necessary in the U.S. tax code. 
Seaboard is in agreement with the testimony that Prof. Warren Dean provided] une 
30 on behalf of the Subpart F Shipping Coalition, of which we are part, and provides 
this separate statement because of the urgency and significance of these issues. 

Seaboard Marine, based in Miami, is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Seaboard Cor- 
poration. It is one of the few remaining U.S. -owned shipping lines. Our company is 
one of the nation's premier carriers to the Carribean Basin, Central America and 
the west coast of South America. Additionally, Seaboard Marine is the largest car- 
rier operating out of the Port of Miami, the world’s leading shipping port to the 
Carribean Basin and Central America. 

Seaboard Marine competes internationally with carriers from around the world. 
Our ability to compete, however, is significantly hampered because of oppressive 
and repressive U.S. tax and regulatory policy. These rules and regulations favor for- 
eign shippers at the expense of the U.S. maritime industry, creatinga lopsided play- 
ing field. The imposition of punitive taxes on U.S. -owned international shipping 
companies has decimated the maritime industry. Specifically, the current provisions 
of Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code have made it virtually impossible for 
Seaboard Marine and other U.S. -owned shipping companies to remain competitive 
in the global marketplace. 

As one of the last remaining U.S. -owned shipping lines, we urge the Committee 
to approve H.R. 265, sponsored by Congressmen Clay Shaw (R-Fla.) and William 
J efferson. (D-La.) This proposed legislation would restore the competitive opportuni- 
ties for U.S. -controlled foreign-flag corporations by excluding shipping income from 
Subpart F of the Internal Revenue Code. Under H.R. 265, taxes would be deferred, 
not exempted, and would eventually be paid into the U.S. Treasury when repatri- 
ated. If the current provisions of Subpart F are not amended and corrected, the 
American maritime industry faces extinction. 

Besides employing more than 500 U.S. citizens and generating revenues in excess 
of $300 million. Seaboard Marine tangentially affects the employment of thousands 
of other American workers who are necessary to the inherent capital-intensive na- 
ture of the marine shipping industry. These ancillary businesses include trucking, 
warehousing, banking and manufacturing industries, and freight forwarders. More- 
over, the vast portion of the capital assets that Seaboard Marine utilizes in its busi- 
ness are produced in the United States, such as flat racks, refrigeration equipment, 
chassis and forklifts. For Seaboard Marine, the loss of Subpart F protection has 
meant not only decreased revenues, but also a disincentive to reinvest and expand. 

If this disincentive were eliminated, the industries upon which the maritime in- 
dustry depends for goods and services also would benefit. Finally, Seaboard Marine 
provides a critical trade link to key countries in Latin America, such as Guatemala, 
Honduras, El Salvador, Nicaragua and the Dominican Republic. For these countries, 
the United States is the principal source of trade, of which Seaboard Marine plays 
a major role. The U.S.' ability to maintain its dominance in this important trade 
zone will be enhanced by the reinstitution of Subpart F protections for our industry. 

Besides the specific implications for Seaboard Marine, the ramifications of current 
Subpart F provisions are far-reaching for the U.S. maritime industry. It is not incor- 



207 


rect or an exaggeration to say that the American maritime industry faces extinction 
if the current provisions of Subpart F are not amended and corrected. 

Aiarmingiy, the U.S.-controiied fieet has deciined from representing more than 
twenty-five (25) percent of the worid fieet in 1975, when Subpart F was first aitered, 
to iess than five (5) percent today. American carriers’ share of the market of the 
U.S. import/export cargoes feii by ha/f between 1990 and 1996, according to the U.S. 
Maritime Administration. Equaiiy striking is that in 1975, U.S. carriers owned 
neariy 22 miiiion of the 85 miiiion gross registered tonnage in the worid fiag-of-con- 
venience fieet. This accounted to approximately 26 percent of the world fleet. By 
1996, however, the world-flag-of-convenience fleet had almost tripled, to 241 million 
tons, while U.S. carrier ownership fell almost by half. 

The downfall of the American shipping industry is directly attributable to the dev- 
astating income tax burden that the U.S. government imposes upon it. American 
carriers pay income tax at a base rate of 36 percent. Most foreign carriers, however, 
pay little or no income tax. 

A study conducted by Crowley Maritime Corp., which also submitted a statement 
to the Committee regarding its J une 30 hearing, illustrates the disparity of the tax 
ramifications between U.S. and foreign shippers. The Crowley study found that on 
average, the foreign carriers sampled received a net tax credit in 1996, while Amer- 
ican carriers sampled paid more than 45 percent of their profits to the U .S. govern- 
ment in taxes in 1996; 43 percent in 1997. 

With this tax disparity in mind, there is little wonder why the American shipping 
industry is struggling for survival. 

Before the protection of Subpart F was stripped away, the once-proud U .S. -owned 
fleet controlled a quarter of the world's fleet. Flundreds of millions of dollars were 
generated in annual tax revenues as a result of the voluntary repatriation of earn- 
ings. The associated infrastructure generated billions of additional dollars of taxable 
economic activity. After the 1975 alteration to Subpart F, the once significant U.S.- 
owned fleet was forced to expatriate to remain competitive. Related industries, such 
as insurance brokerage, ship management, surveying, chartering, technical 
consultancies, etc., who serviced the maritime industry, followed. 

Conversely, foreign shippers have taken advantage of a favorable tax regime both 
in the U.S. and abroad. This has a given them a great advantage and thus a stran- 
glehold on the industry. Consequently, the economic leadership of the United States 
in this critical sector of the economy has been lost. This has been painfully dem- 
onstrated and made obvious by recent international maritime transactions. 

In 1997, for example, the American President Lines, a bastion of the American 
maritime industry for more than 100 years, was sold to Neptune Orient Lines Ltd. 
of Singapore. Shortly thereafter, Lykes Steamship Company, another prominent old- 
line shipper, sold its assets to Canadian Pacific Ltd. In short, these venerable lines 
fell into foreign hands because of the repressive and noncompetitive tax burdens the 
U.S. government placed on the lines' American owners. 

The elimination of the exclusion for shipping income from Subpart F of the Inter- 
nal Revenue Code is thus illogical. The current provisions of Subpart F do not 
achieve the objective for which they were created. This repressive tax burden has 
not generated the tax revenues which were expected. Instead of increasing the tax 
revenue from the 1975 level of slightly more than $200 million to a projected rev- 
enue of almost $800 million in 1998, the revenue has, in fact, plummeted to 
(approx.) a meager $50 million. 

The decline of the maritime industry has additionally weakened the national de- 
fense, threatened existing maritime jobs and prevented the creation of new job op- 
portunities. America's national defense is weakened because the military has his- 
torically relied upon the U.S. fleet to meet its marine transportation requirements. 
We must now depend upon ships under foreign ownership. 

The current provisions of Subpart F threaten thousands of U.S. maritime jobs, 
and prevent the creation of countless others because of the disincentive for Amer- 
ican investment or reinvestment in shipping enterprises. Relieving the onerous bur- 
den that Subpart F presently imposes on the U.S. maritime industry not only would 
secure existing American jobs, but would no doubt be conducive to the creation of 
new job opportunities. 

As one of the last surviving players in the American maritime industry. Seaboard 
Marine urges you to give close and careful scrutiny to the ramifications of FI .R. 265. 
Without the repeal of the repressive provisions of the current Subpart F legislation, 
the extinction of the U.S. maritime industry is inevitable. 



208 


Seaboard Marine appreciates the opportunity to contribute to this vitai tax de- 
bate. Our industry has been made to suffer by repressive taxation. It is time to halt 
and correct this crippling of a vital American industry. 

Sincerely, 

Ralph L. Moss 
Director, Government Affairs 


Statement of the Section 904(g) Coalition 

Mr. Chairman, the Section 904(g) Coalition commends you for holding this hear- 
ing on the impact of U.S. tax rules on the international competitiveness of U.S. busi- 
nesses. Foreign competition faced by U.S. businesses has intensified with the accel- 
eration of globalization. Over the years. Congress has revised the Internal Revenue 
Code to address the expanding activities of U.S. businesses in overseas markets. 
Unfortunately, a number of those revisions have negatively impacted the ability of 
U.S. businesses to compete in the global marketplace. One such provision. Section 
904(g), enacted as part of the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984, can result in double 
taxation of income earned by a foreign subsidiary of a U.S. company. This testimony 
describes the situation in which double taxation can arise under Section 904(g) and 
proposes a narrow amendment to prevent such a result. 

1. Background 

The members of the Section 904(g) Coalition are fully integrated U.S. -based multi- 
national companies that engage directly and through domestic and foreign sub- 
sidiary corporations in the discovery, development, manufacture, marketing and sale 
of products. The foreign subsidiaries manufacture finished products from materials 
supplied by the U.S. parent company ("Parent") or other affiliates, and market, sell 
and distribute such products in their local markets. A number of these foreign sub- 
sidiaries also conduct research and development activities locally through their own 
research staffs, while others may fund research by third parties or affiliates on their 
behalf or pursuant to bona-fide cost sharing agreements within or outside their 
home countries. These foreign subsidiaries are incorporated in developed countries 
with which the U.S. has a tax treaty. All locally funded research and development 
expenses are deducted in their home country, foreign tax returns and expensed for 
local statutory accounting purposes. Consequently, worldwide patent rights that re- 
sult from these efforts and expenses are owned by the foreign subsidiary. 

Quite often the foreign patent owner does not have a manufacturing plant. The 
decision about where to locate such a plant is based on a variety of business, legal 
and political considerations. Building a manufacturing plant often requires a very 
significant investment in capital, and approval of the local government is often re- 
quired for the siting, design and construction of the plant. In addition, manufac- 
turing often involves specialized manufacturing know-how that the subsidiary may 
not possess. The foreign subsidiary would also need to recruit and train a manufac- 
turing work force, which could require a significant investment of time, expense and 
management effort. In many cases, even if the subsidiary were willing to expend 
the time, expense and effort to acquire this capability itself, it could not construct 
a new manufacturing plant in time to meet the anticipated launch date for a par- 
ticular product. 

For these reasons, worldwide patent rights owned by a foreign subsidiary ("Licen- 
sor") may be licensed at an arm's-length royalty rate to another affiliate ("Licensee") 
that already owns and operates a manufacturing plant and has the capacity and 
know-how to manufacture the patented product. 

2. Internal Revenue Code Section 904(g) 

Under Code section 861 (a)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code ("Code"), royalties re- 
ceived for the use of a patent in the U.S. are U.S. source income. As a result, royal- 
ties paid by Licensee to Licensor for sales of product in the U.S. will generally be 
considered U.S. source income to Licensor. Moreover, under Code section 904(g), 
when Licensor pays an actual or deemed dividend to Parent, the dividend will be 
U.S. source income to the extent Licensor's earnings and profits are attributable to 
the U.S. source royalties. Any such dividend paid by Licensor will carry foreign tax 
credits at rates that may equal or exceed the U.S. statutory rate, but none of the 
royalty component of the dividend will be foreign source income. 



209 


Alternatively, Section 904(g)(10) would permit Parent to avoid Section 904(g) 
resourcing if such resourcing would be inconsistent with an income tax treaty be- 
tween the U.S. and Licensor's country of residence. Two r^uirements must be satis- 
fied for Section 904(g)(10) to apply: (i) the treaty must give the foreign jurisdiction 
the right to tax dividends paid by Licensor to Parent (notwithstanding the divi- 
dend's domestic source under U.S. law), and (ii) the treaty must contain a special 
source rule that treats dividends that Licensor's jurisdiction may tax as arising in 
Licensor's jurisdiction for U.S. foreign tax credit purposes (see, e.g.. Article 23 of the 
U.S. -UK Income Tax Treaty). Section 904(g)(10) relief, therefore, is contingent on 
the right of Licensor's country to impose withholding tax on dividends paid to Par- 
ent, rather than its right under the treaty to tax Licensor on its U.S. source income. 
Thus, for example, if the new U.S. -UK treaty (now under renegotiation) should no 
longer permit the U.K. to tax dividends paid to Parent (or, alternatively, no longer 
contain a special sourcing rule). Section 904(g)(10) relief would be unavailable even 
though Licensor has paid full U.K. corporate income tax on its royalty income. Loss 
of Section 904(g)(10) relief is a very real possibility in the U.K. because dividend 
withholding tax may be entirely eliminated under U.K. internal law. Moreover, 
resourcing provisions are now contained in only a limited number of treaties (per- 
haps a dozen), and United States treaty policy has generally been to reserve for the 
U. S. the right to apply Section 904(g) in post-enactment treaties (see, eg. Treasury 
Department Explanation to Article 25 of the new U .S. -Luxembourg treaty). As 
newer treaties supersede older treaties. Section 904(g)(10) relief will become increas- 
ingly rare. Section 904(g)(10) also requires that the dividend income attributable to 
the resourced royalty be placed in a separate foreign tax credit limitation basket. ^ 

Thus, the choices available to Parent under current law are: (1) to rely on the pos- 
sibility of cross-crediting all the foreign income taxes in the five-year carry-forward 
period in its general limitation basket, or (2) to choose the benefits of a treaty, 
where available, and credit foreign taxes paid up to the effective U.S. tax rate but 
permanently lose the ability to credit local taxes in excess of the U.S. rate.^ If the 
product is generating substantial U.S. royalty income that is subject to tax in the 
foreign jurisdiction, it is extremely unlikely that Parent would be ableto cross-credit 
the foreign taxes in its general limitation basket. Thus, either choice will result in 
serious double taxation for Parent. The separate basket approach also unfairly pre- 
vents a taxpayer from using other available credits to satisfy any residual U.S. tax 
liability on U S. source royalties taxed at a foreign rate below the U.S. statutory 
rate. 

As discussed below, the Coalition believes, based on the legislative history of Code 
section 904(g), that Congress did not intend this result. Conceding for purposes of 
argument that Congress did intend when it enacted Section 904(g) in 1984 that divi- 
dends paid by Licensor to Parent be treated as U.S. source income to the extent 
Licensor's earnings and profits were attributable to U.S. source royalties, evolving 
foreign business requirements during the intervening 14 years and the need for U.S. 
companies to compete in foreign markets should cause Congress to revisit and revise 
subsection (g). 


3. Legislative History 

The legislative history to the Deficit Reduction Act of 1984 ("the 1984 Act") ex- 
presses concern that, under existing law, a corporation could receive U.S. source in- 
come and subsequently repatriate the income as foreign source by flowing the in- 
come through an intermediate foreign corporation. By thus inflating foreign source 
income, U.S. companies with excess foreign tax credits could reduce U.S. tax on 
what would otherwise be U.S. source income and thus distort the foreign tax credit 
limitation. Congress also wanted to eliminate any competitive advantage to U.S. 
taxpayers that exported capital to be invested in the United States to foreign sub- 
sidiaries rather than investing it directly. J oint Committee Print, H.R. 4170, 98th 
Congress, Public Law 98-369, pp. 346-54. 

Examples in the J oint Committee Print make it clear that the abuse Congress 
was targeting was the conversion of U .S. source income to foreign source income by 
routing the income through a foreign subsidiary set up for that purpose: where, in 
other words, there was no business reason for the activities in question to be carried 


^Section 904(g)(10) is further limited where Parent has dividend income under Subpart F by 
requiring treaty protection at each level of ownership where there are intermediary holding com- 
panies. Section 904(g)(10)B. 

2|n practice the capacity to credit taxes within a separate 904(g)(10) basket will be limited 
to rates below the U.S. statutory rate because of the allocation of expenses under Reg. Sec. 
1.861-8. 



210 


on by a foreign subsidiary instead of a U.S. subsidiary or the U.S. parent itself, and 
the primary reason for the establishment of a foreign subsidiary was tax avoidance. 
The example given by the J oint Committee is a foreign insurance subsidiary of a 
U.S. company that earns all its income from insuring U.S. risks of U.S. companies 
and distributes its profits to its parent as foreign source income. 

4. Application Of Code Section 904(g) Appears Contrary To 
Congressional Intent 

As discussed above, Congress had two concerns when it enacted Code section 
904(g) in 1984: the export of capital and the manipulation of the foreign tax credit. 
Neither of these concerns applies to the activities of Licensor in the circumstances 
described above. 

First, there is no export of capital involved in the ownership and commercializa- 
tion of product by a foreign subsidiary where the patent is either discovered in the 
foreign jurisdiction and/or funded from Licensor's local business profits,^ and all the 
R&D expenses are deducted in its local tax return. In these circumstances, no U.S. 
capital is exported, directly or indirectly, to Licensor for the discovery and develop- 
ment of the product. The patent rights to the product are clearly the property of 
Licensor, and Licensor therefore has no choice but to report the full profits from ex- 
ploiting the patent in its local tax return. In any event. Code section 367(d), also 
enacted in 1984, put an end to the practice of transferring appreciated intangibles 
from a U.S. parent to a foreign subsidiary in a tax-free exchange. Under Code sec- 
tion 367(d), the intangible is treated as having been transferred in exchange for a 
royalty or other payment commensurate with the income earned on the intangible. 
Since the royalty would be U.S. -source if the intangible were used in the U.S., the 
outbound transfer would no longer result in either a deferral of income or a conver- 
sion of income from U.S. to foreign source. 

Second, there is no manipulation of the foreign tax credit. If Licensor had manu- 
factured the product itself. Licensor's income from sales of product into the U.S. 
would be foreign source income. Because Licensor has no manufacturing plant, it 
will license worldwide patent rights to an affiliate that does have such a plant in 
return for an arm's length royalty. Thus, the decision to license to an affiliate is 
made for sound business reasons. Moreover, all of Licensor's income, including roy- 
alties, is subject to full local taxation in its jurisdiction of residence. Even if Parent 
had a choice about where to report the income from exploiting the patent, it could 
not obtain a foreign tax credit benefit by routing U.S. source income through a full 
tax-paying foreign jurisdiction. On the contrary. Parent's foreign tax credit capacity 
is reduced to the extent it incurs local tax in excess of the U.S. tax rate. Because 
the Licensor that the Coalition is focused upon is incorporated and residing in a de- 
veloped country with which the U.S. has a tax treaty, there is little or no oppor- 
tunity for manipulation of the foreign tax credit rules. 

Finally, it appears that Code section 904(g) would apply even if Licensor had actu- 
ally imported capital into the U.S. by manufacturing product and selling it in the 
U.S. through a U.S. branch— a structure clearly not designed either to export capital 
or distort the foreign tax credit limitation. In that case. Licensor would be subject 
to a 35% U.S. federal tax on its income, plus a 5% branch profits tax. Licensor 
would also be subject to full local income tax less a credit for U.S. taxes incurred. 
A dividend from Licensor under these circumstances would likewise be subject to 
Code section 904(g), and, thus, a pro rata portion would be U.S. source income. Con- 
sequently, Parent would face the same foreign tax credit problem discussed above. 

In sum. Parent has not attempted to transfer a U.S. asset or business to a foreign 
jurisdiction to convert U.S. source income into foreign source income. The capital to 
create the asset is of foreign origin, all R&D expenses are deducted in Licensor's 
local tax return, and Parent has never owned the asset. The foreign subsidiary that 
owns the patent is incorporated and residing in a country with which the U. S. has 
a tax treaty. The foreign tax jurisdiction, moreover, has very reasonable expecta- 
tions that any profit resulting from commercialization of the patent will be subject 
to full income taxation in that jurisdiction. U.S. tax policy actually endorses this ex- 
pectation through income tax treaties by ceding primary taxing jurisdiction to that 
other country on royalty income that is U.S. source income under Section 861 prin- 
ciples. There is no valid U.S. tax policy objective in these circumstances for limiting 
utilization of foreign tax credits under Section 904(g). 


^A formula can be developed to assure that funds expended for R&D were derived from 
Licensor's own profits rather than from capital contributions made by Parent. 



211 


5. Evolving Foreign Business Conditions Necessitate Modifications to 

Section 904(g) 

There is language in the attached J oint Committee Print to the effect that Con- 
gress intended to preserve full U.S. tax on U.S. source income earned by foreign 
subsidiaries of U .S. corporations upon repatriation to the U.S. regardless of the rate 
of tax paid by the foreign subsidiary on the income. Thus, the Committee Print ap- 
pears to reflect U.S. tax policy concern even where the U .S. source income is subject 
to high rates of foreign taxes, the cost of which the taxpayer then seeks to shift to 
the U.S. government through the foreign tax credit mechanism. The Coalition be- 
lieves, however, as discussed earlier, that Congress was principally concerned with 
situations where the high rate of local tax results from the U.S. parent company 
having either transferred a U.S. source-income-generating-asset to the foreign sub- 
sidiary or having allowed the subsidiary to conduct business in the U .S., rather than 
engaging in the U.S. business activity itself. 

Clearly, Congress was not focused on a foreign subsidiary that was developing 
worldwide patent rights to a product and would eventually license such patent to 
another foreign affiliate. In today's global economy, U.S. parent companies are in- 
creasingly designating foreign subsidiaries as centers to undertake a portion of their 
research. These decisions are dictated by business necessity in today's international 
business climate. Increasingly, foreign governments are looking for strengthened 
local business ties as a prerequisite for important local business opportunities. 
These may include enhanced patent protection under local law, expedited review of 
new product applications, and pricing decisions in countries where these decisions 
are controlled largely by local governments. 

The increased "nexus" local governments are more increasingly focused on is the 
funding of research costs for particular products. This requirement is based on the 
expectation that increased R&D will lead to the recruiting of local scientists and ul- 
timate ownership of worldwide patent rights if the research efforts should prove suc- 
cessful. It is imperative that U.S. companies be free to compete with their foreign 
counterparts in meeting these local business requirements without subjecting them- 
selves to the potential risk of future double taxation. The Coalition believes that this 
result is clearly inconsistent with broader goals of U.S. tax policy. 

6. Code Section 904(a) Discourages Repatriation, Resulting In Net 

Revenue Loss 

Because repatriation of earnings could put Parent in an excess foreign tax credit 
position. Licensor could reasonably decide not to pay a dividend to Parent. Retaining 
earnings in the foreign jurisdiction would defer the repatriation of local tax credits. 
Profits from reinvested capital would be subject to tax in the foreign jurisdiction but 
not in the U.S., with a corresponding loss of U.S. tax revenue. The loser in this sce- 
nario is the U.S. government because capital imports are diminished, and profits 
from reinvested capital are subject only to foreign tax, not to U .S. tax. 

7. Recommendation 

It is recommended that Code section 904(g) be amended to prevent its application 
when the owner who has funded development of a patent or other intangible re- 
ceives a royalty or other income from exploiting an intangible and such income is 
subject to tax in a country with which the U.S. has an income tax treaty, which 
treaty permits the foreign country to tax such U.S. source income. The fact that the 
United States has entered into an income tax treaty with that other country is in- 
dicative that a tax haven jurisdiction is not being availed of and foreign tax credit 
manipulation is not involved (compare, e.g., Bermuda captive insurance or finance 
companies). The royalty income would, in any event, be subject to U.S. tax under 
subpart F if it is taxed at a rate that is less than 90% of the U.S. rate. See Section 
954(b)(4). 

The Coalition believes that if Code section 904(g) is amended as suggested above, 
there will be no additional export of capital from the U.S. or manipulation of the- 
U.S. foreign tax credit rules. 


‘*50= page 348 of the J oint Committee Print which states that: 'The [pre 1984] source ruies 
arguabiy aiiowed the circumvention of the foreign tax credit iimitation. The creation of foreign 
income that either attracted high foreign taxes directiy or absorbed foreign tax credits that arose 
from unrelated high-taxed foreign income passed the cost of high foreign taxes from the U.S. 
taxpayer to the U.S. government. The [Deficit Reduction] Act [of 1984] prevents that result by 
its general rule that ensures full U.S. tax when U.S. source income flows through a U.S.-owned 
foreign corporation." 



212 


[Attachment is being retained in Committee fiies.] 


Tax Council 
Washington, DC, 20005 

J uly 7, 1999 

The Honorabie Biii Archer, Chairman 
Committee on Ways and Means 
US. House of Representatives 
Washington, D.C. 

Dear Mr. Chairman: 


On J une 30, 1999 the Ways & Means Committee held a hearing on the Impact 
of U.S. Tax Rules on International Competitiveness. The Tax Council commends you 
and the other members of the committee for scheduling the hearing on this issue 
which is so important to American workers and businesses. 

In addition to Representatives Houghton and Levin, you heard from 16 out- 
standing private sector witnesses who possess an unprecedented amount of exper- 
tise and knowledge regarding taxes and international business. All of the witnesses 
presented convincing and well thought out statements that justify the urgent need 
to reform and simplify the U.S. international tax laws. Over half of the witnesses 
you called to testify represent members of The Tax Council and we would like to 
state for the recorcf that we, as an association, strongly support their collective call 
for international tax reform. 

In particular, we support the provisions in H.R. 2018 that would accelerate the 
effective date for look-through treatment in applying the foreign tax credit baskets 
to dividends from 10/50 companies; repeal Section 907 with its excessively burden- 
some record keeping requirements: apply look-through rules on sales of foreign part- 
nerships: and provide a permanent subpart F exemption for active financing income. 
In addition, we recommend the recently proposed legislation that would treat Ad- 
vance Pricing Agreements as confidential return information. These provisions 
would help to simplify the tax code and assist U.S. companies to compete more effec- 
tively against foreign-based competitors. 

The Tax Council is a nonprofit association that has been in existence since 1966 
and has 110 major companies and businesses as members. In addition to providing 
an ongoing forum for the discussion of important tax policy questions, it supports 
efforts to assure that all federal tax laws are based on sound tax and budget poli- 
cies. 

The Tax Council, which has been actively involved in the debate on international 
tax reform for a long time, urges the Committee to move as quickly as possible on 
the recommendations that were presented during this hearing. If we can be of any 
assistance, please do not hesitate to call upon us. 

Sincerely, 


Roger J . LeMaster 

E xecuti ve Di rector 


Tropical Shipping 
Riviera Beach, FL, 33404-6902 

J uiy 6, 1999 

A.L. Singleton, Chid" of Staff 
Committee on Ways and Means 
U.S. House of Representatives 
Washington, D.C. 

Re: J une 30, 1999 Committee Hearing on I mpact of U.S. Tax Rules on International 
Competitiveness 

Dear Mr. Singleton: 

The current U.S. international tax regime is contributing to the de-Americani- 
zation of U.S. industry because the U.S. owned fleet is being forced to expatriate 
to remain competitive. An unintended result of the 1986 and 1975 tax law changes 
has been the near complete removal of U.S. investment from the Ocean Shipping 
industry leaving the cargo trades of the United States almost entirely in the hands 
of foreign owned and foreign controlled shipping companies. Overall, U.S. ownership 



213 


of the world fleet has declined from 25% of world tonnage In 1975 when Congress 
enacted the first tax code change affecting shipping, to less than 5% today! 

This unintended consequence has profound Implications for the United States, as 
International trade and commerce of goods have historically been Influenced by the 
national Interests of the country of ultimate ship ownership. 

Tropical Shipping Is a U.S. -owned container shipping company (CFC) with a busi- 
ness focus on serving ports of call In the Caribbean, the only region In the world 
In which the United States has a balance of trade surplus. The exports to this re- 
gion create numerous jobs throughout the U.S. agricultural and manufacturing sec- 
tors as well as our own company’s employment of over 500 people In the United 
States. 

The existence of the U.S. balance of trade surplus with the Caribbean Is no coinci- 
dence. This region Is the last area In the world where U.S. owned shipping compa- 
nies dominate the carriage of general cargo and this contributes to the success and 
promotion of U.S. exports. Our company, and our U.S. owned competitors, are active 
every day, putting Caribbean buyers In touch with U.S. exporters which Is beneficial 
for Tropical Shipping's long term Interests. 

Our tax laws force U.S. companies to become acquired by foreigners because their 
countries have adopted tax policies to ensure that their international shipping in- 
dustry is competitive in world markets. Our foreign-owned competitors have a great 
advantage in their accumulation of capital, as they are not taxed on a current basis 
and generally only pay tax when the dividends are repatriated. It is inevitable that 
mergers of U.S. companies with foreign companies will leave the resulting new com- 
pany headquartered overseas. Examples of this are found in the decrease of the U.S. 
controlled fleet and the foreign acquisition of American President Lines and Lykes 
Steamship Co. Because of the adverse consequences resulting under the current 
U.S. international tax system, U.S. shipping companies are being forced out of the 
growing world market for the carriage of cargo. 

Buying and operating ships is capital intensive. U.S. owners in this capital inten- 
sive and very competitive shipping industry, have sold out, gone out of business, and 
not invested in shipping because they just cannot compete due to the unintended 
consequences of the U.S. international tax regime. It is simply this regime that 
places U .S. owners at a distinct disadvantage in the global commerce of ocean trans- 
portation. U.S. owners can compete in all other respects. 

In the containerized shipping industry, U.S. owned participation in the carriage 
of U.S. trade has steadily declined to an all time low of 14.2% of the container trade 
in 1998. The decline is not in the economic interest of the United States and weak- 
ens U.S. exports contributing to fewer U.S. based jobs. It will be a sad day indeed 
if all the ocean commerce created in the growing market of the Americas as a result 
of NAFTA and the FTAA ends up benefiting foreign owners with no chance for U.S. 
investors to participate. 

Please correct the tax code so that the U.S. will increase their global competitive- 
ness, expand and stabilize itself in the international shipping industry and strength- 
en U.S. exports which would result in more U.S. based jobs. FI.R. 265, introduced 
by Congressman Shaw and co-sponsored by Congressman J efferson, is an important 
response to this problem. 

Sincerely yours. 


Richard Murrell 
President and CEO. 


Statement of LaBrenda Garrett-Nelson, and Robert J . Leonard, Washington 

Counsel, P.C. 

Washington Counsel, P.C. is a law firm based in the District of Columbia that 
represents a variety of clients on tax legislative and policy issues. 

Introduction 

The provisions that make up the U.S. international tax regime rank among the 
most complex provisions in the Code. This statement discusses section 308 of the 
International Tax Simplification for American Competitiveness Act of 1999 (FI.R. 
2018, introduced by Reps. Floughton and Levin), a proposal to reduce complexity in 
this area by repealing the little used regime for export trade corporations ("ETCs"). 
The ETC rules were enacted in 1962 to provide a special export incentive in the 
form of deferral of U.S. tax on export trade income. The rationale for the proposed 
repeal is that the special regime for ETCs was, effectively, repealed by the 1986 en- 



214 


actment of the passive foreign investment company ("PFIC") ruies. At the same 
time, the proposai wouid provide appropriate (and prospective) transition reiief for 
ETCs that were caught in a bind created by enactment of the PFIC regime. 

I. The Overlap Between the ETC Regime and the PFIC Rules Effectively Nullified 
the ETC Rules For Many Corporations 

Aithough the PFIC rules were originally targeted at foreign mutual funds, the 
Congress has recognized that the scope of the PFIC statute was too broad. Thus, 
for example, the Taxpayer Relief Act of 1997 eliminated the overlap between the 
PFIC rules and the subpart F regime for controlled foreign corporations. Similarly, 
in the 1996 Small Business J obs Protection Act, the Congress enacted a technical 
correction to clarify that an ETC is excluded from the definition of a PFIC. 

The 1996 technical correction came too late, however, for ETCs that took the rea- 
sonable step of making "protective" distributions during the ten-year period between 
the creation of the uncertainty caused by enactment of the PFIC regime and the 
passage of the 1996 technical correction. Although U.S. tax on distributed earnings 
would have been deferred but for the ETC/PFIC overlap, these ETCs made distribu- 
tions out of necessity to protect against the accumulation of large potential tax li- 
abilities under the PFIC rules. Thus, the PFIC rules, in effect, repealed the ETC 
regi me. 

II. Congressional Precedents for Providing Transition Relid'for ETCs 

The proposal would simplify the foreign provisions of the tax code by repealing 
the ETC regime. When the Congress enacted the Domestic International Sales Com- 
pany ("DISC") rules in 1971, and again when those rules were replaced with the 
Foreign Sales Corporation ("FSC") rules in 1984, existing ETCs were authorized to 
remain in operation. Moreover, ETCs that chose to terminate pursuant to the 1984 
enactment of the FSC regime were permitted to repatriate their undistributed ex- 
port trade income as nontaxable previously taxed income (or "PTI"). 

The Proposal also provides a mechanism for providing prospective relief to ETCs 
that were caught in the bind created by the PFIC rules. Consistent with the transi- 
tion rule made available in the 1984 FSC legislation, the proposal would grant pro- 
spective relief to ETCs that made protective distributions after the 1986 enactment 
of the PFIC rules. Essentially, future (actual or deemed) distributions would be 
treated as derived from PTI, to the extent that pre-enactment distributions of export 
trade income were included in a U.S. shareholder's gross income as a dividend. Note 
that the proposed transition relief would provide only "rough justice," because taxes 
have already been paid but the proposed relief will occur over time. 

Conclusion 

Repeal of the ETC provisions would greatly simplify the international tax provi- 
sions of the Code, but such a repeal should be accompanied by relief for ETCs that 
were caught in the bind created by the PFIC rules. 


Youngstein & Gould 
London WIM SFQ, 

J une25, 1999 

Ways and Means Committee 
United States FI ouse of Representatives 
Washington, D.C. 

Dear Sirs: 

In connection with hearings which are to be held this Wednesday, J une 30, 1999, 

I enclose a letter by me on 11th December 1998 to the U.K. Inland Revenue and 
U.S. Treasury Department (the "Letter") in connection with negotiations which com- 
menced early this year to modernize the US/UK income tax treaty. The points made 
there are highly relevant to any inquiry into the effect of U.S. tax law on the inter- 
national competitiveness of U.S. workers who are working in countries which also 
impose worldwide taxation of income (e.g. the OECD countries). 

As the Letter illustrates, U.S. citizens who are resident for tax purposes in an- 
other jurisdiction which imposes worldwide income taxation tend to be subject to the 
harshest aspects of the U.S. and foreign taxation systems without the benefit of ei- 
ther system's tax incentives/reliefs (tax exempt pensions, reduced taxation of capital 
gains, etc. etc.). The result is that such individuals pay much higher tax than either 



215 


U.S. citizens who remain in the U.S. or non U.S. citizens resident in the same for- 
eign jurisdiction, as weii as being subject to exponentiaiiy greater compiiance bur- 
dens. The effect is nothing iess than economic "second dass citizenship." 

The Letter notes that a solution to the most severe aspects of this problem would 
be simply to eliminate the "saving clause" which is inserted by theTreasury Depart- 
ment as a matter of rote in all U.S. double tax treaties, providing that U.S. citizens 
resident in the other treaty jurisdictions may not claim relief from U.S. tax under 
such treaties. It is unclear that the policy for inclusion of the saving clause in the 
U.S. treaties has ever been clearly considered, and certainly not by the House of 
Representatives which is not involved in the treaty process. As noted in the Letter, 
it is fallacious to argue that the saving clause is an extension of the policy of the 
U.S. to tax its citizens regardless of residence. 

Also as noted in the Letter, the inclusion of the saving clause in treaties implies 
a level of responsibility of the Treasury Department to recommend and Congress to 
adopt domestic taxation provisions for U.S. citizens resident abroad which mitigate 
the harsh consequences of the denial of treaty relief, yet neither the Treasury De- 
partment nor Congress appear to appreciate that this responsibility exists. Clearly 
it has not been fulfilled. 

The position of U.S. citizens resident in other countries imposing worldwide tax- 
ation deserves your urgent attention. It would undoubtedly improve the morale of 
expatriate Americans if your Committee would acknowledge the problems which 
exist and assume responsibility for developing and implementing a solution. 

Yours sincerely. 


J EFFREY L. Gould 


Youngstein Si Gould 
London WIM SFQ, 

Dec. 11, 1998 

Bob Wightman Esq 

Inland Revenue I nter national Division 

London WC2R IHH 


J oseph H Guttentag Esq. 

Deputy Assistant Secretary (International Tax Affairs) 

U.S. Treasury Department 
Washington, D.C. 

Dear Mr. Wightman and Mr. Guttentag: 

I understand from our tax publications that the Inland Revenue and I RS have an- 
nounced plans to modernise the UK/US double taxation convention for income taxes. 


I . Background 

A. As a U.S. lawyer who has practised in London for the past 20 years, special- 
izing in taxation matters, I have had occasion to advise on many aspects of the cur- 
rent treaty. I am aware of many areas where "modernization" is certainly required, 
to take into account developments in the domestic taxation rules and commercial 
environments of the two countries since the present treaty was agreed. I would like 
to focus on one area in which I am aware of a desperate need for a more sensible 
approach, namely the taxation by the U.S. of its citizens who are resident in the 
U.K. without affording the benefit of "dual resident relief" provided, for example, in 
the OECD Model I ncome Tax Treaty. 

B. As indicated below, the effect of the present treaty is a sort of "second class 
citizenship" for U.S. Expatriates resident in theU.K., who are unable to lead a fis- 
cally "normal" life because they have to face the harshest aspects of both the U.K. 
and the U.S. systems without the mitigating effects of the reliefs offered in either 
country. 


II . The Problem Areas 

A. The fact that the U.S. imposes taxation of the worldwide income of its nation- 
als, regardless of residence, raise unique problems particularly for U.S. citizens who 
are resident in countries like the U.K. which impose their own worldwide taxation. 
The "International" solution to such problems, as exemplified by the OECD Model 
IncomeTax Treaty, is found in the "dual resident" provisions under which in cases 
of an individual who is fiscally resident in both treaty countries, the country with 
the greater claim to imposing worldwide taxation is accorded the status of the coun- 
try of residence for treaty purposes while the other country may impose worldwide 
taxation but subject to the reliefs given under the treaty. The U.S. rejects this solu- 



216 


tion in the case of its nationais residing overseas ("U.S. Expatriates") through re- 
quiring the inciusion in its doubie taxation treaties of "saving dauses" reserving to 
the U.S. the right to tax its nationais without regard to treaty reiiefs. 

B. Unfortunateiy, the U.S. domestic tax iaw offers nothing for U.S. Expatriates 
who are subject to woridwide taxation in another country to take the piace of duai 
resident treaty reiief. As a resuit, the oniy protection against doubie taxation of such 
U.S. Expatriates rests in daiming foreign credits. Reiief from doubie taxation by 
way of credit or exemption is a feature of the domestic tax iaw in virtuaiiy every 
other OECD country as weii, but such reiief deariy has been considered inadequate 
to deai with the probiems of woridwide doubie taxation, as evidenced by the aimost 
uniform inciusion of "duai resident" provisions in treaties between OECD countries 

C. The sometimes Draconian consequences to U.S. Expatriates of the U.S. ap- 
proach are proof of the wisdom of the OECD approach. With oniy the foreign tax 
credit to reiy upon, U.S. Expatriates residing in the U.K. are unabieto obtain any 
benefit from tax-favored transactions in either country because of inconsistency in 
approach. For exampie: 

1. Whiie the U.S. offers a rate of capitai gains tax which is one-haif that of the 
U.K., the U.S. taxes capitai gains which are exempt under U.K. ruies, such as the 
annuai exemption from U.K. capitai gains tax, gain from the disposai of a principai 
residence and gain which wouid quaiify for U.K. retirement relief. The U.S. Expa- 
triate who is resident in the U.K. must pay U.K. capital gains tax at the U.K.'s 
higher rate on those gains which are not exempt, and U.S. capital gains tax at the 
U.S.’s lower rate on gains which are exempt from the U.K. capital gains tax. Thus 
the U.S. Expatriate obtains the benefit of neither system's taxation of capital gains. 

The difference in tax treatment of gain from the sale of a residence is exacerbated 
by an unenlightened U.S. tax policy regarding currency gains and losses realized on 
foreign currency (eg. pound sterling) mortgages. 

2. The U.S. and U.K. rules for tax-deferred pension and profit sharing plans are 
similar, but each impose different specific requirements as a result of which no U.K. 
exempt approved pension scheme will meet U.S. requirements for a qualified plan, 
and vice-versa. The U.K. at least offers the possibility of "corresponding relief" for 
certain U.K. residents who are covered by U.S. plans, but the vast majority of U.S. 
Expatriates who are resident in the U.K. are unable to avail themselves of such re- 
lief 

U .S. Expatriates participating in U.K. pension plans may be liable to U.S. tax not 
only on employer contributions but also on a pro rata share of any income and gain 
realized in the pension fund. As this income is not liable to tax in the U.K., no cred- 
its for U.K. tax are available to offset the U.S. liability, while on the other hand 
when benefits are received, they will be largely tax-free in the U.S. (having already 
been taxed) while U.K. tax will then be due. The result is that in the extremely im- 
portant area of pension planning U.S. Expatriates uniquely are unable to benefit 
from tax deferred pensions and are likely to suffer true double taxation if they are 
so ill-advised as to participate in a U.K. exempt approved scheme. 

3. Tax incentives for charitable giving differ between the U.S. and U.K. and it is 
difficult to get them to match. 

D. A similar problem has arisen from proliferation of U.S. anti-avoidance legisla- 
tion, which is frequently focussed on overseas activities of U.S. taxpayers but always 
from the point of view of preventing avoidance by U.S. resident taxpayers. In fact, 
it is U.S. Expatriates who are most often affected by these rules, and in ways not 
intended by Congress. 

1. For example, the "passive foreign investment company" ("PFIC") rules penalize 
minority investment in foreign companies which are organized to earn passive in- 
come. To prevent the last scintilla of avoidance, the term PFIC is so broadly defined 
as to include many purely active commercial ventures. Similarly, very restrictive tax 
credit provisions are embodied in the PFIC rules, which are inconsistent with the 
principles of double taxation relief as contained in Article 23 of the present UK/US 
treaty. The result is that U.S. Expatriates who are resident in U.K. are subject to 
anti-avoidance rules when making investments in U.K. companies in circumstances 
where there is no tax avoidance, resulting both in punitive rates of U.S. tax and 
denial of effective relief for U.K. taxation imposed on the same incom^gain, i.e. true 
double taxation. 

2. Other U.S. anti -avoidance provisions such as the "controlled foreign corpora- 
tion" rules may result in attribution of income of a foreign entity to a U.S. Expa- 
triate prior to the time when that income would be taxed to him in the U.K., cre- 
ating a potential mismatch of credits and, once again, the possibility of true double 
taxation. 

3. A further problem of certain anti-avoidance rules both in the U.K. and the U.S. 
is the attribution of income to someone other than he who has earned it. The fre- 



217 


quent result will be that income is taxed to one person by the U.K. and to another 
by the U.S., so that once again the foreign tax credit becomes an inadequate shield 
against double taxation. 

E. Many of the above problems would be avoided if a U.S. Expatriate residing in 
the U.K. were able to claim relief from the U.S. taxation under the US/UK double 
tax treaty. 


III. The Solution 

A. The most comprehensive solution to these problems would be to eliminate the 
saving clause from the new US/UK income tax treaty. A U.S. Expatriate resident 
in the U.K. and eligible for relief from U.S. tax under the new treaty would, for the 
most part, be able to plan his affairs on the basis of being liable to tax on his income 
only in the U.K. and therefore have the same possibility as any other U .K. resident 
to mitigate his tax liability through adoption of acceptable forms of planning such 
as pensions. It is true that, because of the absence of a provision which deals with 
capital gain, the present treaty would not afford U.S. Expatriates relief from incon- 
sistent treatment of capital gains even if there were no saving clause. However, the 
U.S.'s unilateral approach to treaty claims by U.S. resident aliens (pursuant to 
Treasury Regulations Section 301.7701 (b) -7) would satisfactorily address this 
problem. 

B. It therefore seems to me high time for the IRS to reexamine the wisdom of 
incorporating the saving clause into its treaties. So far as I am aware, the saving 
clause has no congressional sanction. Presumably, the rationale for requiring the 
saving clause is to serve the U.S. policy of taxing its citizens on a worldwide basis, 
but there is no reason why this policy should be any stronger than U.S. policy of 
taxing its resident aliens on a worldwide basis, yet resident aliens are freely able 
to claim the benefit of "dual resident" provisions of U.S. treaties when applicable. 
The difficulties faced by a U.S. Expatriate residing in a country like the U.K. amply 
demonstrate that the U.S. has not taken responsibility in the drafting of its domes- 
tic legislation for the impact of the saving clause on such individuals. 

C. Another reason to reconsider the saving clause is that, in practice, the saving 
clause operates to the disadvantage of the U .S.'s treaty partners. Although typically 
(as in present US/UK treaty) the saving clause is drafted so as to afford either trea- 
ty partner the ability to tax its own nationals as if the treaty had not come into 
effect, it is only the U.S. which reaps a fiscal benefit from the saving clause because: 

1. the U.S. is the only country which impose worldwide taxation of its nation- 
als: and 

2. in those cases where a country such as the U.K. could avail itself of the 
saving clause to deny treaty relief (i.e. in relation to claims of U.K. nationals 
resident in the U.S.), in practice it does not do so, either because it is not geared 
to enforce a "one-off" provision which is inconsistent with its normal treaty obli- 
gations or for cultural reasons. 

D. If the Treasury Department is not persuaded that it should take a fresh look 
at this issue, an alternative which certainly should be considered is a series of spe- 
cific treaty provisions to deal with specific problems (e.g. pensions, capital gains, 
charitable contributions). This is less than ideal, both because of the difficulty of 
drafting all the provisions that ought to be included and because of the risk of rapid 
obsolescence. Nonetheless, "half a loaf" would be far better than none. 

IV. Conclusion 

It would be a very positive development if the re-negotiation of theUS/UK income 
tax treaty could pave the way for a more considered treatment of U.S. Expatriates 
in future treaty negotiations (or indeed, unilateral relief through U.S. domestic leg- 
islation wholly or partly overriding saving clauses in existing U .S. treaties). 

I would be very interested in assisting the Inland Revenue and /or the IRS during 
the course of these discussions, both in relation to the problem of U.S. Expatriates 
and generally. Please do not hesitate to contact me if I may be of service. 

Yours sincerely. 


o 


J EFFREY L. Gould 



