-. 
y 
a 


1) 9% +325 KAY 27 1997 


OFFICE OF THE CLERK 
No. 


In The 
SUPREME COURT of the UNITED STATES 


October Term 1997 


Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per 


Petitioner 


PaineWebber Incorporate 


Respondent 


On Petition For Writ of Cetiorari 


To The United States Ninth Appellate Court 


PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI 


Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per 

329 Parkview Circle 

Taft, California 93268 
88 


5 
< 


Phone: 805 763 1 


ee oe en as 


1 
QUESTIONS PRESENTED 


1. Isn’t it unconstitutional and against the constitution of 
the United States of America for the NASD arbitration’s 
arbitrators to rule alive claims filed with the NASD 
arbitration as stale and for the NASD arbitration arbitrators 
to deprive victimis of criminal conduct of receiving justice 
because the National Association of Securities Dealers 
Arbitration does not need to conform with the “statute 
laws,” being the governing laws of our society? 


2. Isn’t it against the Rules of Fair Practice of the NASD 
arbitration and the constitution of this United States that a 
NASD arbitrator’s very fraudulent ruling deprives victims 
of a corporate criminal from receiving any justice for vile, 
deliberate crimes done to the victim by a corporate criminal 
who violates the laws governing their business? 


3. Isn’t it against the laws for a corporate criminal to 
demand NASD arbitration with a petition to a federal court 
inorder to use NASD arbitration for promoting the criminal 
conduct of the dishonest corporation for depriving victims 
of the corporation of their legal right to be protected by the 
laws that govern that corporations business? 


4. Shouldn’t a ruling of claims as being alive by the 
United States Ninth Appellate Court in a U. S. Federal 
Ninth Circuit Court memorandum filed November 8, 1993 
pertaining to claims that is court record NO. 40 of CV F 90 
450 REC. confirming that Painewebber Inc. VIOLATED 
securities laws of the state of California with me BE 
SUFFICIENT TO OVERRULE a fraudulent decision of 
any NASD arbitrators who were most probably bought by 
Painewebber Inc. for the purpose of defrauding me? 


5. Does the CONSTITUTION allow the NASD 
arbitration to continually defy and ignore the written LAW 


ee 
i 


& LEGAL statute of laws applying to the crimes filed with 
the NASD arbitration against a corporate criminals? 


anrardsF 
6. Is the United States supreme Court awar@ that the laws 
are allowing criminals to use arbitration for the promotion 
of their crimes with the public? 


7. Is the United States Supreme Court aware that the 
NASD arbitration is fraudulently dismissing very alive 
claims filed with the NASD arbitration as being stale in 
favor of vile corporate criminals who deliberately violate 
our laws and who motion the NASD arbitration that the 
very alive claims filed with the NASD arbitration which are 
mandated by law only to be heard with the NASD and filed 
with the NASD arbitration legally waiting to be heard with 
the NASD arb:tration are being fraudulently dismissed as 
“stale” because the corporate criminal is allowed to use the 
NASD arbitration for depriving their victims of receiving 
any justice for the vile, deliberate crimes of the corporate 
criminal? 


8. Does the 1987 Mc Mahon Decision allow the NASD 
arbitration to fraudulently dismiss alive claims and defraud 
people fall within the legal boundaries of our Constitution 
and deprive those mandated by law to file the criminal acts 
of dishonest brokerages with NASD arbitration? 


9. Shouldn’t it be very very unconstitutional for the 
NASD arbitration arbitrators to use a different statute of 
laws for ruling claims filed with the NASD as being alive or 
stale than the lawful written statutes written in the legal 
books of law governing the laws of our country? 


10. Is the U. S. Supreme Court aware that the Federal 
Arbitration Act is being used by corporate criminals who 
have arbitration clauses for avoiding prosecution from our 
courts for serious deliberate crimes done to victims by these 
vile corporate criminals? 


iii 


1]. Because the NASD arbitration dismissed 
Painewebber’s March 1, 1991 discovery day crimes of 
FRAUD the breaches of fiduciaries crimes with the March 
1, 1991 discovery day as stale from March 15, 1991 NASD 
arbitration claim 91 00986 on December 9, 1991 AS 
BEING STALE does this fact confirm that all NASD 
arbitration claims filed with the NASD arbitration inorder 
to be LEGAL FOR STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS when 
filed with NASD arbitration must be filed with the NASD 
arbitration before 15 days from the time of discovery 
has lapsed or the claim will be rules as “STALE” and dead 
by the NASD arbitration? 


12. Can the NASD arbitration legally and lawfully 
dismiss any claims filed with the NASD arbitration as being 
“STALE” when the laws of our land that are written 
governing the CRIME filed with the NASD arbitration 
confirm the claims filed with the NASD were filed within 
the proper statute of limitations in OUR courts of law? 


13. Is the U. S. Supreme Court aware that Painewebber 
Inc. uses the NASD arbitration for HAVING persons 
fraudulently and unlawfully CONVICTED of being a 
VEXATIOUS LITIGANTS that want a HEARING on alive 
claims filed with the NASD arbitration that according to 
California state laws and federal laws are very alive claims 
of the state of California and federal government filed with 
the NASD arbitration? 


14. Is the Supreme Court aware that Painewebber Inc. 
uses the NASD arbitration for receiving money from those 
who they violate in the form of sanctions being granted to 
Painewebber for depriving their victims of a hearing on 
Painewebber crimes that Painewebber Inc. did not want 
heard with the NASD arbitration? 


iv 


15. Is Painewebber Inc. allowed by law to set to motion 
in a court of law CLAIMS mandated by law ONLY to be 
heard in arbitration FILED with the NASD arbitration? 


16. Is Painewebber allowed to set to motion in a 
California state court ANY Painewebber VERY ALIVE 
crimes filed with the NASD arbitration as required by ALL 
laws ALSO being very alive PaineWebber CRIMES that the 
NASD arbitration has scheduled for hearing with the 
NASD inorder that Painewebber can claim “res judicata”? 


17. Is Painewebber Inc. allowed to set to motion in a 
court of law CLAIMS mandated by law and a FEDERAL 
COURT ORDER only to be heard in arbitration? 


18. Is Painewebber Inc. allowed by law to deprive any 
person of a hearing.on any very alive Painewebber Inc. 
crime of the Federal Government or the State of California 
filed with the NASD arbitration that Painewebber Inc. does 
not want heard at the NASD arbitration? 


19. Shouldn’t the court intervene and make a just ruling 
that conforms with our laws for those persons who have 
been forced by law to take the crimes of criminal 
Painewebber Inc. to the NASD arbitration against their 
good judgment but have filed with the NASD arbitration 
because of the laws mandating arbitration for CRIMES and 
then deprived of justice at the NASD arbitration for crimes 
that according to OUR lands written lawful statute of 
limitations are very alive CRIMES for the crimes that 
pertain to the crimes according to our written laws of the 
state of California and Federal laws governing the crimes? 


20. Can Painewebber be in contempt of court and set to 
motion for hearing in a. court of law any NASD arbitration 
filed Painewebber Inc. crite or crimes prior to the legal 
lawful written dismissal of that NASD arbitration claim 
where by law all the claims are filed being CRIMES 


Painewebber Inc. petitioned & mandated the federal court 
to ORDER all Painewebber’s crimes heard ONLY in 
arbitration because of PWI’s arbitration clause in PWI’s 
contract that MANDATED Painewebber’s crimes can only 
be heard in arbitration? 


Vv 


21. Can Painewebber claim RES JUDICATA by being in 
CRIMINAL contempt of court by unlawfully setting to 
motion claims filed for hearing with the NASD arbitration 
in a court of law before NASD arbitration dismissal? 


22. Can Painewebber “say” to the NASD arbitration that 
Painewebber wants Painewebber’s crimes filed with NASD 
arbitration heard in a court of law inorder to defraud 
someone who Painewebber has violated? 


23. Can a brokerage corporation violate their clients 
agreement contract to use the mandatory arbitration clause 
for CRIME and for violating civil nghts laws? 


24. Is Painewebber Inc. allowed by law to announce at 
the NASD arbitration that Painewebber will take care of 
their vile California crimes that are filed with the NASD 
arbitration scheduled for hearing with the NASD arbitration 
in a California state court inorder to have somebody 
convicted of being as a vexatious litigant? 


25. When Painewebber PUBLICLY ANNOUNCE on 
November 20, 1991 at NASD arbitration 91 00986 that 
Painewebber wanted Painewebber’s California crimes filed 
with NASD arbitration claim 91 00986 heard in California 
state court was Painewebber Inc. violating the Federal 
Arbitration ACT? 


26. When the NASD arbitration heard and knew that 
Painewebber Inc. announced publicly on November 20, 
1991 that Painewebber wanted Painewebber’s California 
crimes filed with NASD arbitration claim 91 00986 heard 1 


vi 


in California state court should the NASD arbitration move 
Painewebber’s crimes filed with the NASD arbitration 
claim 91 00986 to California state court or should BY 
LAW Painewebber have moved their VERY ALIVE crimes 
filed with the NASD arbitration to California state court? 


27. When Painewebber told me and NASD arbitration on 
Nov. 20, 1991 that Painewebber wanted their California 
crimes heard in California state court was PaineWebber 
using the Federal Arbitration Act for CRIMES? 


28. Shouldn’t the NASD arbitrators of NASD arbitration 
claim 91 00986 be libel for part of the many costs of 
Painewebber’s crimes remaining in our court system for 
years longer than should have been necessary because of 
NASD’s involvement with Painewebber defrauding me and 
NASD’s failure of properly moving Painewebber’s very 
alive NASD arbitration filed crimes to the California state 
court system and not fraudulently dismissing PWI’s very 
very alive California crimes filed unlawfully as being 
STALE inorder that Painewebber would use the process of 
law for the promotion of PWI crimes for corrupting our 
justice system for the next six years? 


29. Isn’t Painewebber a felon for taking commission 
money from my Painewebber account UNLAWFULLY by 


defrauding me? 


30. When Painewebber publicly announced on Nov. 20, 
1991 at NASD arbitration claim 91 00986 that Painewebber 
wanted Painewebber’s VERY ALIVE California crimes 
heard in California state court for the purpose of claiming 
“stale”, “res judicata” and “vague” was Painewebber Inc. in 
criminal contempt of court in Kem County Superior Court 
and using the Federal Arbitration Act for crimes? 


vii 


31. Can Painewebber Inc. deprive any of their victims of 
justice legally using the Federal Arbitration Act unlawfully 
for the promotion of their vile, deliberate crimes? 


32. Can Painewebber use the NASD arbitration for the 
crimes of getting money in the form of sanctions from those 
who they deprive of a hearing on their crimes? 


33. Can Painewebber Inc. viciously deprive anyone from 
having a hearing on any very very alive Painewebber crimes 
because Painewebber Inc. has deliberately corrupted the 
process of law? 


34. Can a Painewebber lawyer legally motion for 
dismissing very very alive Federal and California 
Painewebber crimes filed with the NASD arbitration and 
get the crimes dismissed by “paying” or “buying” the 
NASD arbitrators to dismiss ALIVE legally filed 
Painewebber Inc. crimes filed with NASD arbitration from 
the NASD arbitration which are mandated by law only to be 
heard in arbitration? 


35. Isn’t it unconstitutional for the NASD arbitration to 
deprive any person of justice for the crimes of a dishonest 
brokerage because the dishonest brokerage demands that 
the many alive crimes claims filed with a NASD arbitration 
claim legally and being crimes that are very alive must be 
dismissed from the NASD arbitration? 


36. Was the purpose of enacting the Federal Arbitration 
Act inorder that CRIMINALS could evaid our laws using 
arbitrators who would fraudulently dismiss alive claims as 
being stale when the claims filed with the arbitration are 
very alive claims according to federal and state law statutes? 


viii 


37. Can the NASD arbitration discriminate against 
people in PRO PER because the NASD arbitration must 
HATE persons in PRO PER who file claims against a 
dishonest brokerage corporation who supports their 
organization? 


38. Can a dishonest brokerage corporation who has an 
arbitration clause in their contract for arbitrating their 
crimes with NASD arbitration file motions with courts for 
demanding NASD arbitration for their crimes for SLX years 
demanding that ONLY by law their crimes CAN ONLY be 
heard with the NASD arbitration and MANDATING 
NASD arbitration for SIX years before the court has any 
authority to STOP granting corporate criminals with 
arbitration clauses arbitration for crimes that need to be 
prosecuted by a court? 


39. Will the United States Supreme Court make a law 
that will HELP victims of criminal brokerages with 
arbitration clauses in their contracts to be able to receive 
some justice and NOT be forced by law to take CRIMES to 
arbitration? 


40. CV F 90 450 REC. is filed under the protection of 
S.E.C. Rule “1164” being a Securities and Exchange Ruling 
that I was lead to believe GAVE the United States Federal 
Distinct Court jurisdiction for hearing and prosecuting 
Painewebber Inc.’s federal securities crimes and other 
serious gross crimes, does S.E.C. Rule “ii64” give the 
United States Supreme Court also jurisdiction for hearing 
and finalizing Painewebber’s crimes done to me? 


41. Is ita duty of the U. S. Supreme Court to disbar 
lawyers who have failed to abide with proper RULES of 
ethics and standards demanded by the legal profession? 


ix 


42. Isn’t it true that only those lawyers who have the 
highest moral and ethical character are allowed to come 
before the United States Supreme court? 


43. Would the U. S. Supreme Court Justices allow any 
person who lacked creditability to come before them? 


44. Can corporations have lawyers whoes CONDUCT 
when practicing law does not comply with standards of 
those set in the American Bar Association’s book of rules? 


45. Is what I read TRUE that the American Bar 
Association’s code of ethics laws governing lawyers 
demands them to certain standards of conduct when the 
lawyer has any dealings with a preson not represented by 
one of the legal profession? 


46. Are Painewebber’s lawyers allowed to deprive me of 
justice by using our laws unlawfully for causing gross 
errors in our courts? 


47. PaineWebber’s lawyers Mr. Scott M. Ratchick, Ms 
Catherine J. Pratt and Ms Judy Louit-has each filed LEGAL 
DOCUMENTS in OUR courts of law with me that were 
filed by Painewebber Inc. to degrade the dignity of law and 
obstruct justice because THEY each have uses the process 
of law unlawfully ARE the three Painewebber lawyers 
assigned to my claims against Painewebber suitable lawyers 
to be appearing infront of the United States Supreme 
Court? 


48. Is the United States Supreme Court aware that the 
three Painewebber lawyers assigned to my claims has each 
LIED? 


49. Is the United states Supreme Court going to disbar 
the Painewebber lawyers assigned to my claims? 


aii 


50. Is Painewebber’s Consumers’ Affairs Department 
allowed by law to do COVER UP investigations into 
problems that Painewebber may have? 


51. Is PaineWebber ALLOWED to LIE to the S. E. C. 
in LETTERS such as they did on November 25, 1991 to 
Ms Janis A. Leyden of the SE.C in Los Angeles? 


52. Have the Justices of the United States Supreme court 
read PaineWebber’s letter to Ms Janis A. Leyden of the 
Securities and Exchange Commission dated November 25, 
1991 that is Califomia COURT RECORD FO18582 
companion case excert of records page 312 - 313? 


53. Is Painewebber Inc.’s MAIN Corporate Executive 
Office Mr. Donald Marron by law allowed to INSTRUCT 
Painewebber’s Consumers Affairs Department to do cover 
up investigations? California COURT RECORD FO 
18582 companion case excerts of record page 296. 


54. Is the personal PROPERTY INFORMATION of a 
person whom Painewebber has defrauded a DEFENSE for 
Painewebber Justifying Painewebber’s crimes? 


55. Shouldn’t is be unlawful for a lawyer to file a motion 
in a court of law like Painewebber Inc. did on June 30, 
1992 in Kem County Superior that unconstitutionally has a 
person declared as a vexatious litigant wrongfully? 


56. Did Painewebber commit a felony on June 30, 1992 
in Kem County Superior Court by filing legal documents in 
the court that violated my civil and legal nghts done by 
Painewebber for unlawfully receiving MONEY in the form 
of sanctions for MAKING me a victims of their CRIMES? 


57. Was Painewbber comitting FRAUD and violating the 
laws of California on July 1, 1992 when Kem County 
Superior Court filed Painewebber’s June 30, 1992 dated 


xi 


docquments that were for DEFRAUDING the court and 
ME using the court for CRIME of PaineWebber violating 
civil rights laws and comitting fraud at the Kern County 
Superior Court, Bakersfield, California in July 1992? 


58. Can a Painewebber Inc. lawyer use a California court 
for filing legal documents which are unconstitutional? 


59. Can Painewebber insert the word “it” in a letter 
written to them by ME and use the letter in a United States 
Federal court as a true legal docqument? 


60. Can a Painewebber lawyer use the federal mail for 
serving legal documents to a court of law that are 
UNLAWFUL TO FILE IN A COURT OF LAW because the 
legal docquments violate civil nghts laws? 


61. Is Painewebber Incorporate a brokerage corporation 
THAT YOU consider as being a reputable place of 
business that does business honestly with the public? 


62. Can Painewebber legally motion to a court for 
Painewebber to receive sanctions from a court of law from a 
party who Painewebber has violated without BREAKING 
our laws? 


63. When Painewebber petitioned the Federal District 
Court in October 1994 inorder for the NASD arbitration to 
validate the legality of the statute of limitations on the 
Federal Securities Claim against PaineWebber ruled 
reversed and remanded back to the district by the Ninth 
Appellate Court on Nov. 1, 1993 was Painewebber making 
a frivolous motion? 


64. Can lawyers of those who violate our laws file a 
motion against a person who the corporation has violated 


xii 


for receiving money in the form of “sanctions” from a party 
that Painewebber has deprived of a legal right such as 
Painewebber’s lawyers have done? 


65. Does the U. S. Supreme Court think that the state of 
California has good cause to SUE Painewebber for what 
they did in Kern County Superior Court? 


66. Does the U. S. Supreme Court think the NASD 
arbitration should take action against Painewebber Inc. for 
using arbitration unlawfully? 


67. Does the U. S. Supreme Court think that the 
FEDERAL court should send Painewebber a very big BILL 
for using up their time foolishly and wasting the lives of 
everyone and our time for OVER the past seven years? 


68. My claims against Painewebber Inc. filed in 
California state court for violating California contract laws 
and other California laws and My claims filed in U. S. 
Federal Court for violating federal securities laws and 
FEDERAL CIVIL RIGHTS laws are ALL civil criminal 
complaint law suit claims filed BY me against PaineWebber 
Inc. for violating LAWS governing their business with ME 
a true FACT that every claim reveals and known to ALL 
courts where Painewebber’s crimes are filed; will the 
Supreme Court please tell me WHY arbitration was granted 
to PaineWebber for their federal securities crimes by the 
Federal District Court on October 2, 1990 when the 
Federal District Court knew FOR SURE that the July 17, 
1990 Federal Securities Fraud claim CV F 90 450REC. I 
filed was a CRIMINAL COMPLAINT against Painewebber 
for CRIMES of federal securities fraud? 


69. Does the U. S. Supreme Court condone Painewebber 
LYING to the Securities and Exchange and the Nebraska 
Banking Authorities concerning their undeniable unlawful 
business practices done to me, a person of the public? 


xiii 


70. Will the U. S. Supreme Court give me and my family 
some justice for the YEARS of HELL that Painewebber has 
forced our family to endure? 


71. Will the justices of the U. S. Supreme Court use my 
case against Painewebber Inc. a purpose in making NEW 
laws that will correct some of the “PITFALLS” in contracts 
containing arbitration clauses with employers, employees 
and persons of the public who have a contract containing an 
arbitration clauses that deprives the victims of criminal acts 
to be forced by law to take the crimes of probable criminals 
and violators of our laws to an arbitration forum? 


72. Will the court make a retroactive law granting any 
victims of a criminal acts who HAVE been forced to take 
the criminal act of a violator of our laws to an arbitration 
forum because of a clause in a contract with the violator the 
legal nght GRANTING all victims the right to take the act 
of crime to a court of law where the criminal act can be 
prosecuted? 


73. Will the court MAKE a law that reinstates all claims 
dismissed fraudulently by an arbitration forum that did not 
conform with the wiiten laws governing our land and 
dismissed claims in violation with our written laws that 
these ALIVE CLAIM for the crimes of CRIMINALS with 
arbitration clauses in their contracts are prosecuted by a 
court of law? 


74. Is PaineWebber Incorporate allowed to use the 
SAME certified mail number TWICE when sending 
certified mail to anyone for use in a court of law? 


75. Are the U. S. Supreme Court Justices aware that there 
are a great number of persons whoes nghts to be protected 
by the laws are deprived because of laws allowing cnminals 
to hide their crimes behind the door of an arbitration 
forum? 


xiv 
LIST OF PARTIES 


PETITIONER/APPELLANT 
Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per............ an individual with 
no corporations or subsiduaries inviolved. 


The Solicitor General of the United States Department of Justice 


The Attorney General of the State of California and the 
California Department of Justice 


The Federal Bureau of Investigation 


The Secunties & Exchange Commission of the United 
States 


The California State of Corporations 

The Nebraska Department of Justice 

The Nebraska Department of Banking & Finance 

The National Association of Securities Dealers Arbitration 
The Kern County District Courts 

The California Fifth District Appellate Court 

The California Supreme Court 

The U. S. Federal Eastern District Court of California 


The U. S. Ninth Circuit Appellate Court 


RESPONDENTS/APPELLEE 
Painewebber Inc........... a corporation with the following 
parents, subsidiaries and affiliates, 


XV 
RESPONDENTS/APPELLEE 


Painewebber Inc........... a corporation with the following 
parents, subsidiaries and affihates, 


PaineWebber Inc. Group, Inc. 
PaineWebber International Bank, LTD. 
PaineWebber Intemational (UK), LTD. 
Mitchell Hutchins Asset Management Inc. 
Mitchell Hutchins International Investors Inc. 
PaineWebber Capitol Inc. 

Paine Webber Development Corporation 
PaineWebber Properties Incorporate 
PaineWebber Trust Corporation 
PaineWebber Specialists Inc. 
PaineWebber Life Insurance Company 


xvi 


TABLE OF CONTENTS 
Pages 
Questions —. i 
ListofParties 4. XIV 
TableofContents XV1 
Table of Appendix XV 
List of Citations & Authorities __ xx 
Petition of Writ of Certiorari ] 
U. S. Supreme Court Has Jurisdiction 
Over These Cases, Rules 10. 1] & 
28 USCA 210] (e) apply ] 
1. Statement of Jurisdiction 2 
2. Statement of Cases 5 
A Dec.5,1994 20 
B. PWI MADE A CONTRACT 21 
. Fae Cee 22 
l. PWI uses arbitration for crimes .. 22 
2. NASD is promoting crimes ....... 22 
3. Painewebber uses MAIL for crime 23 
a Painewebber LIES continually .... 23 
5. PWI does cover up investigations 23 


xvii 


Page 

6. PWI corporate officers ARE party 23 
D. I have been denied justice ....... 24 

3. Reasons for Granting Petition .......... 27 


Relief Requested .o.......ccceeeceseeeeereeees 29 


xviii 


TABLE OF APPENDIX 


Appendix @ ....... Ninth Circuit Appellate Court 


Nov. 8, 1993 filed 92 16 894 
Memorandum forC VF 90450REC. la 


Appendix b ....... Ninth Circuit Appellate Court 
June 28, 1994 filed 93 16337 
Memorandum for CV F 935370REC. __. 8a 


Appendix C ...... Ninth Circuit Appellate Court 
October 17, 1994 filed 93 16337 

Order for June 8, 1993 filed CIVIL RIGHTS claim 

for unconstitutionally having me convicted 

Unconstitutionally being a vexatious 

litigant & sanctioned UNCONSTITUTIONALLY to 

pay the criminal PaineWebber Inc. BIG money for 

being dishonest, claim CV F 93 5370 REC. .. lla 


Appendix d .... CA 5 District Appellate Court 
OPINION (suitable for publiishing) filed Oct. 27, 1994, 
CA Sth Appellate case FO 18582 for June 22, 1990 filed 
CA Civil Code of Proceedure Section 337 four (4) year 
Statute of limitations claim 220662 against Painewebber 
for writing unlawful sales contracts in C'A and gross failure 
to conduct business AS allowed by law and PaineWebber’s 
continual failure to monitor an office and employees who 
Painewebber knew needed MONITORING. ... 12a 


1Xx 


Page 


Appendix € ..... Ninth Circuit Appellate Court 
Feb. 20, 1997, 1997 filed 96 16169 
Memorandum 7/17/90 filed CV F90450 REC. 14a 


Appendix f.... Ninth Circuit Appellate Court 
April 10, 1997 filed 96 16169 
Order for 7/17/90 filed FEDERAL SECURITIES FRAUD 


claim CV F 90 450 REC ©... 17a 


xx 
CITATIONS & AUTHORITIES 


A. G. Edward and Son Inc. v. Mc Collough 
967 f . 2d 1401, 1402, (9th Cir 1992) (per cuniam) 


Robuck v. Dean Witter and Co. 
649 f.2d 641, 644 (1980) 


Davis v. Burr Wilson & Co. 

839 f . 2d 1369, 1369 - 70 

(9th Cir 1988) 

Sheet Metal Workers Int’] Ass’n Local Union 359 
v. Madison Indus., 

84 f .3d 1186, 1190 (9th Cir. 1996) 


Miller v. Maxwell’s Int’! Inc., 
991 f . 2d 583, 585. (9th Cir 1993) 


Rose v. United States 
905 f. 2d 1257, 1259. (9th Cir. 1990) 


CONSTITUTION of the UNITED STATES 


CALIFORNIA CIVIL CODE OF PROCEEDURE 
SECTION 337 and 338 (4) 


CIVIL RIGHTS ACT under 42 USCS 
Civil Rights Action for Deprevation of Rights 


Congress enacted section 27 A of 
15 US C section 78 aa - | 


Federal Deposit Insurance Act 12/19/91... Section 476, 


Secuntties & Exchange 10 “b” Rules 


xxi 
FEDERAL CIVIL RIGHTS ACT OF 1985 


Federal Civil rights Act under USCS “Conspiracies” 


“Equal protection of the NN ivassaversxineonvnss Section 264 
“Right to be free of CONSPIFACIES”........-..-0 Section 265 
28 USCA Section 2403 (a) & (b) 


28 USCA Section 2101 


28 USCA Section 1651 (a) 

U. S. Supreme Court Rule “20” 

U. S. Supreme Court Rule “10” (a) & (c) 

U. S. Supreme Court Rule wt i 

Federal District Court Rule “11” 

California Civil Code of Proceedure Section 128.5 
28 USCA Section 1253 

28 USCA Section 1254 


Federal Arbitration Act TITLE 9 USCA Sections 1 thro- 14 


CIVIL RIGHTS under 42 USCS 
“Color of the law”"GENERAL ........... Section 56 
“Federal Civil Rights Act” ..........+ . Section 59 


FEDERAL CIVIL RIGHTS ACT of 1983 


l 
PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI 


The U. S. Supreme Court has jurisdiction over this 
case because the Federal Arbitration is being used for the 
promotion of the crimes of corporate criminals with 
arbitration clauses. 


Dishonest corporations are making contracts 
containing arbitration clauses with their victims inorder to 
deprive their victims of their CIVIL RIGHT of being 
allowed to be protected by our laws that govern the 
business of dishonest corporations who do not conduct 
their business with the public according to the laws that 
govern the corporation’s business. 


Legal documents filed with MY claims against 
Painewebber Inc. contain undeniable facts of vicious 
crimes and GROSSLY vicious dishonest conduct done by 
Painewebber continually to me for depriving ME my civil 
and legal rights given to me by the Constitution. 


All letters, documents, memo’s, teleconferences, 
transcripts, being all of everything that was ever filed in the 
courts against Painewebber and BOTH NASD 91 00986 
and NASD 95 00357 arbitration claims apply including the 
October 4, 1991 NASD 91 00986 teleconference with 
Painewebber and the NASD arbitration are for the United 
States Supreme Court records for reviewing the CRIMES 
done to me; everything ever filed anywhere applies to this 
Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per vs. Painewebber Incorporate 
CRIMINAL case for the U. S. Supreme Court records. 


U. S. Supreme Court Rules 10, 11 and 28 USCA 
2101 (e) apply because I petitioned for nght for Wnt of 
Certiorari in September 1994 to the varying courts where 
Painewebber’s crimes are filed because the GROSS CIVIL 
RIGHTS VIOLATIONS were continually done to me. 


1. STATEMENT OF JURISDICTION 


I Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per on September 12, 
1994 wrote legal letters to all the appellate courts where 
Painewebber’s crimes are filed for permission for the right 
to Petition for Writ of Certiorari, this is a fact of truth that 
on September 12, 1994 I requested permission of ALL the 
appellate courts where Painewebber’s crimes are filed 
telling the each of the courts that I Juanita W. Childs, Pro 
Per wanted Painewebber’s crimes of violating CIVIL 
RIGHTS LAWS filed with the United States Supreme 
Court for hearing because cf the very egregious nature of 
Painewebber's very many civil rights crimes done to me. 


On October 24, 1994 I filed legally an appeal with 
the U. S. Ninth Appellate Court for the order of October 17, 
1994 for 6/8/93 filed MY civil nghts claim against criminal 
Painewebber Inc. for their crime of unconstitutionally 
having me convicted of being a vexatious litigant on 
September 1, 1992; on June 8, 1993 I filed the Civil Rights 
¢laim CV F 93 5370 REC. against Painewebber Inc. for 
unlawfully having me convicted of being a VEXATIOUS 
litigant 9/1/92 and SANCTIONED by the court to pay 
Painewebber BIG BUCKS for being a CRIMINAL who 
deprived me of my civil rights to be protected by the laws of 
OUR land; these Painewebber Incorporate crimes have a 
September 1, 1992 discovery day, being the day that the 
criminal Painewebber had the court unlawfully have me 
convicted of being a vexatious litigant and sanctioned by 
the court to pay the criminal Painewebber Inc. big money 
for depriving me of MY legal rights to be protected by the 
laws of OUR land ALL being another serious CRIME to 
add to all the other vicious crimes done to me by the 
CRIMINAL Painewebber Inc. . 


3 


October 19, 1994 Painewebber filed a motion with 
the United States District Court unlawfully STAYING ALL 
MY CLAIMS depriving me not to be able to go forward 
with the September 12, 1994 REQUEST of mine for filing 
for WRIT of Certiorari sent to the appellate courts where 
Painewebbers CRIMES were filed on 9/12/94 asking them 
for the right to have Painewebber’s crimes heard with the 
United States Supreme Court for being finalized. 


September 12, 1994 I wrote the letters to the 
appellate court requesting permission for the RIGHT TO 
PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI because I 
thought that Painewebber Inc.’s crimes of using mandatory 
arbitration laws and their Painewebber arbitration clause in 
Painewebber’s contract called “Clients Agreement” for 
depriving PWI VICTIMS of their right to be protected by 
our laws was such a very egregious vicious PWI crime I 
knew should only be addressed in the very HIGHEST court 
of our land for the safety of our people. 


Painewebber Inc. uses their arbitration clause in 
their “Clients Agreement” contract with their VICTIMS 
inorder to avoid prosecution for THEIR deliberate crimes 
by demanding the court MUST grant them arbitration for 
deliberate crimes done to their victims because the clause 
in Painewebber’s “Clients Agreement” contract by law 
grants Painewebber Inc. the legal nght for arbitration for 
ALL the crimes which Painewebber does to anyone. 


Painewebber does not seem to recognize any of our 
laws as being laws which apply to Painewebber Incorporate 
and considers VILE, unlawful deceit done by Painewebber 
as being exceptable business practices for PWI's business; 
also PW1 insists that CRIMES done by them are disputable 
and calls them “disputes”; also Painewebber Inc. insists our 
laws governing the brokerage business are NOT laws 
applying to Painewebber’s brokerage business. 


4 


Painewebber Inc. is using the PWI’s “Clients 
Agreement” contract for the egregious crimes of depriving 
their victims of crimes of their legal rights to be protected 
by our laws which is deliberate DEPRAVATIONS OF 
CIVIL RIGHTS LAWS; the NASD arbitration is used by 
PWI forse aiding Painewebber in the DEFRAUDING of 
Painewebber’s victims, then NASD arbitration aids PW1 in 
the PROMOTION of their CRIMES by ruling ALIVE 
claims as STALE infavor of the criminal Painewebber Inc. 
depriving Painewebber victims receiving any 4 justice. 


The issues governing the October 17, 1994 order 
and April 10, 1997 Order of the U. S. Ninth Appellate 
Court are GROSS depravation of civil rights done to me, 
Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per continually by CORPORATE 
criminal Painewebber Inc. who has continually violated 
ALL the laws governing their business with me including 
the TRUTH that Painewebber VIOLATED ALL OUR 
LAWS including that PWI wrote unlawful sales contracts 
with me on August 27, 1986 and May 6, 1987 being 
Painewebber CA CONTRACT crimes filed June 22, 1990 
in Kern County Court that are protected by California laws 
and California Civil Code of Procedure Section 337. 


California Civil Code of Procedure HAS a FOUR 
year statute of limitations; on June 22, 1990 I filed 
Painewebber’s California crimes for writing unlawful sales 
contracts in California in a four year statute of limitations 
claim in Kem County against Painewebber Inc. for violating 
California laws with me and this very alive very legally filed 
claim against the criminal Painewebber Inc. HAS NEVER 
BEEN ADDRESSED because of Painewebber has deprived 
me of MY civil rights of having the VERY very alive legally 
filed Painewebber Inc. California crimes of writing 
UNLAWFUL sales contracts in California heard anywhere 
because of Painewebber GROSS civil rights violations of 
our laws done to me by PWI to deprive me of MY civil and 
legal nights, DONE by the criminal PWI using the Federal 


5 


Arbitration Laws for the promotion of the criminal acts of 
the criminal Painewebber Inc., Painewebber’s very alive 
legally filed California crimes of writing unlawful sales 
contracts in the state of California with me are protected by 
California Civil Code of Procedure Section 337 and were 
filed for hearing with the NASD on Dec. 17 and 18, 1991 
with March 15, 1991 filed NASD 91 00986 claim but on 
Nov. 20, 1991 Painewebber Inc. ANN OUNCED at NASD 
9] 00986 that PWI did not want Painewebber CA contract 
crimes heard with NASD 91 00986 at the NASD scheduled 
Dec. 17 and 18, 1991 hearing for ALL of Painewebber’s 
very alive NASD 91 00986 filed Painewebber crimes; all 
the PWI crimes were scheduled by the NASD on October 
23, 1991 for hearing & were very alive om PWI crimes on 
12/9/91 when the NASD arbitration claim 91 00986 was 
fraudulently dismissed as stale and with prejudice by the 
NASD inorder to DEFRAUD me; the wrongful dismissal of 
NASD 91 00986 has distroyed my life, health & the lives of 
my enitre family costing everyone many many thousands of 
dollars & allowed PWI to use the process of law for crime 
for 6 years degrading the dignity of our judicial process. 


2. STATEMENT OF THE CASE 


On April 12, 1990 I learned that Painewebber Inc. 
was a criminal prior to April 12, 1990 I did not KNOW that 
Painewebber was a CRIMINAL who violated our laws, if I 
had KNOWN before April 12, 1990 that Painewebber Inc. 
was violating our laws I would have ASKED Painewebber 
Inc. for restitution for their crimes done to me PRIOR to 
April 13, 1990. 


On April 30, 1990 I wrote Painewebber’s head 
Corporate Executive Office Mr. Donald Marron a certified 
letter telling Painewebber’s head Corporate Executive 
Officer Mr. Marron that Painewebber Inc. had violated the 
laws governing Painewebber’s business with me. 


— 


6 


On May 31, 1990 Painewebber’s Consumers 
Affairs Office wrote me a letter and told me that PWI’s 
head C. E. O. Mr. Marron, the president of Painewebber 
Inc. Mr. Marron had Teceived MY letter and Painewebber 
was investigating MY complaints against Painewebber 


CA court records FO 18582 com. case FO 17864 pg. 137. 


The May 31, 1990 dated Painewebber Consumers 
Affairs letter tells me to contact a “Beverly Williams” 
allious “B.C. W.” Painewebber Consumers Affairs 
Specialist concerning questions about the letter of May 36, 
19905 SERVED to B. C W., PWI Weehawken N J Office. 


On April 30, 1990 Ihad written Painewebber’s 
head C. E. O Mr. Marron telling Painewebber’s head C_ E 
O that HE had crime in his corporation and that I was a 
victim of their crimes and I wanted restitution for being a 
victim of PWI’s crimes and if I did not get restitution for 
being a victim of PWIs crimes I would be suing 
Painewebber FOR the DAMAGES of BEING a VICTIM of 


June 8, 1993, I Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per filed 
Civil Rights claim CV F 93 5370 REC. because PWI used 


EEO 


7 


In April 1990 I wrote the California Department of 
Justice and told them that Painewebber Inc. had violated 
our laws with me and the California Department of Justice 
told me to contact the Nebraska Banking Authorities 
concerning Painewebber’s crimes done to me at the 
Painewebber Lincoln, Nebraska office of Painewebber. 


SEE Court Records for 6/22/90 filed California claims, 
CA court records FO 18582 Com. FO 17864 pgs. 298 - 299 


On May 31, 1990 Painewebber wrote me a letter 
telling me that Painewebber was investigating into my 
problems of Painewebber Inc. violating the laws with me 
on June 19, 1990 Painewebber sent me a letter £8d HE 
Nebraska Banking authorities a letter that was full of LIES; 
the June 19, 1990 letters of PWI to me & the Nebraska 
Banking Authorities were vile deliberate LIES told to us for 
covering up PWI crimes; Painewebber Inc. had NOT done a 
“through investigation” completed on June 19, 1990 
because if this was TRUE Painewebber WOULD know that 
they HAD violated our laws and that PWI DID violate state 
LAWS, that PWI did violate federal LAWS and that PWI1 
did violate their regulatory LAWS all with me. 


Painewebber told the Nebraska Banking 
Authorities that MY complaining about being violated by 
PWI was unfounded and that I harassed them; 
UNFOUNDED when PWI KNEW they had violated the 
California & Nebraska BLUE SKY LAWS with me on 
August 27, 1986; not very unfounded being violated by 
PWL SEE Court Records for California 
California Court records FO 18582 Com. FO 17864, 
Pages 301 through 369 contains undeniable Proof. 


Painewebber Inc. SLANDERED me also telling the 
Nebraska Banking authorities that L Juanita W. Childs 
harassed them at Painewebber, this is slander because PWI 
knew I complained about being violated by Painewebber 


8 


because Painewebber Inc. violated our laws: and to 
complain because of being violated by those who violate 
our laws to the Nebraska Banking Authorities when PW1 
most definitely had violatedgmsy laws with me is vicious and 
a Painewebber LIE; PWI has continually LIED to everyone 
for years including the Nebraska Banking Authorities in 
June 1990 that Painewebber did NOT violate laws 
governing PWI’s business; legal documents filed with 
claims filed against Painewebber Inc. PROVE Painewebber 
Inc. is a LIER who continually LIED and continually 
violated me and that Painewebber Inc. is a very horrible 
vicious corporate criminal who DEPRIVES those who they 
violate of their legal and civil rights to be protected by our 
laws who should not be allowed to conduct business in 
America for the safety of our citizens. 


April 30, 1990 I wrote Painewebber’s head 
corporate executive office Mr. Donald Marron and told him 
by CERTIFIED mail that he had crimes in his company and 
that I would be suing Painewebber Inc. if I did not get 
restitution for the crimes that Painewebber Inc. had done to 
me, Painewebber’s head Corporate Executive Office Mr 
Donald Marron used his Consumers Affairs Department 
for doing a COVER UP INVESTIGATION and for 
deliberately LYING completed on June 19, 1990 confirmed 
with the June 19, 1990 letter to the Nebraska Banking 
Authorities who the California Department of Justice had 
told to contact concerning Painewebber Inc. their crimes 
done to me while I had an account with them. 


Painewebber Inc. continually has LIED to me, 
LIED to those in authority, lied to those who would have 
helped me; Painewebber continually LIED to everyone to 
covered up their crimes and CONTINUALLY DEFIES the 
existence of OUR laws applying to them; Painewebber was 
presented the UNDENIABLE evidence that they violated 
the laws PRIOR TO ME EVER FILING NASD 91 0098€ 


9 


Painewebber defies the existence of our law as laws not 
applying to their brokerage even when presented the 
undeniable, uncontestable evidence that on August 27, 
1986 Painewebber Inc. was UNLAWFULLY soliciting and 
selling Mesa Pf. “a” limited partnership securities to me 
PRIOR to proper registration with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission. 


Painewebber Inc. KNEW that the Mesa Pf. “a” 
limited partnership securities were not registered properly 
with the Securities & Exchange Commission; PWI knew 
the Mesa Pf. “a” limited partnership securities were not 
properly registered with the Securities & Exchange on 
8/27/1986 and that the securities were illegal for soliciting 
to anyone UNTIL September 19, 1986, PWI had done a 
THROUGH investigation completed on June 19, 1990 and 
Painewebber KNEW they UNLAWFULLY solicited the 
Mesa Pf “a” limited partnership securities to me on August 
27, 1986; also I sent PWI this proof PRIOR to filing NASD 
91 00986. 


PWI uses NASD arbitration for the promotion of 
their crimes and demands NASD arbitration continually for 
using the federal arbitration act for crimes and their crimes 
deliberately done to me HAVE DISTROYED MY LIFE, 
HEALTH AND THE LIVES OF MY FAMILY and that 
cannot be replaced with any amount of money, NOBODY 
CAN GIVE ME BACK WHAT THE CRIMINAL PWI HAS 
STOLEN FROM ME AND MY FAMILY. 


Painewebber Inc. on August 27, 1986 was 
unlawfully soliciting and selling Mesa Pf. “a” securities 
prior to proper registration with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission to me in California at my Taft, h7™~ 
California; Painewebber used the telephone for making the 
unlawful sale to me on August 27, 1986 of 1000 shares of 
Mesa Pf. “a” limited partnership securities and this CRIME 
is making an unlawful SALES contract in CA and the crime 


10 


was filed with the state of CA on June 22, 1990 in a CCP 
337 claim having a four year statute of limitation. 


Painewebber on August 27, 1986 was violating 
both Califomia and Nebraska laws with me using the 
telephone unlawfully at the Lincoln, Nebraska Painwebber 
Inc. office on August 27, 1986 when Painewebber Inc. was 
unlawfully soliciting Mesa Pf. “a” limited partnership 
securities TO ME on August 27, 1986, Painewebber made a 
very unlawful sale to me by unlawfully selling me ON 
AUGUST 27, 1986 of the 1000 shares of Mesa Pf “a” 
limited partnership securities PRIOR to proper registration 
with the S. E. C.; this is a VIOLATION of California and 
Nebraska BLUE SKY LAWS done by Painewebber Inc. 
oeing a PWI crime I discovered as a probability on April 12, 
1990 and as a FACT on Oct. 30, 1990 that PWI on August 
27, 1986 was violating S.E.C. laws, CA & NB blue sky 
laws DELIBERATELY me viciously because of GROSS 
PWI greed and for getting an unlawful commission 
violating deliberately violating me. 


The Mesa Pf. “a” limited partnership securities that 
Painewebber Inc. solicited and sold to me on August 27, 
1986 were not properly registered with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission for solicitation to ANY ONE until 
September 19, 1986 who lived in a state protected by 
BLUE SKY LAWS, Painewebber Inc. is a criminal who 
does not conduct business according to OUR laws; 
Painewebber Inc. has CONTINUALLY DELIBERATELY 
LIED TO EVERYONE CONTINUALLY for years and 
years and is a congenital deliberate LIER who should not be 
allowed to conduct business with anyone because they have 
NO accountability, are a public menace and use our laws 
for crime, Painewebber continually has deliberately LIED to 
everyone continually and refuses to recognize our laws as 
applying to the PWI brokerage; Painewebber has 
continually failed to conduct themselves according to our 
laws. 


1] 


PWI uses the Federal Arbitration Act for crimes and for 
unlawfully having their VICTIMS deprive oi their civil 
rights; Painewebber has their victims convicted of being 
vexatious litigants and sanctioned to PAY Painewebber 
! BIG money by using the Federal Arbitration Act for 
violating civil rights laws continually. 


Painewebber uses the Federal Arbitration Act for 
violating civil rights laws inorder that their VICTIMS are 
deprive of a hearing on Painewebber’s very alive legally 
filed crimes filed with the NASD arbitration, Painewebber 
uses their arbitration clause in their contract for CRIMES 
and to corrupt the power of law in our United States, 
Painewebber is a criminal who breaches their corporate 
obligation contract called “Clients Agreement” inorder to 
have their victims declared a vexatious litigant, for getting 
MONEY from their VICTIMS in the form of sanctions for 
depriving them of their civil rights, Painewebber is the 
MOST deplorable corporate criminal and a corporate 
criminal who needs to be PROSECUTED. 


Crime and corruption happened to me continually 
at Painewebber, continually Painewebber deprived me of 
the protection of the laws governing their business and 
continually FAILED to conduct themselves according to the 
laws governing their business with me, court documents 
filed with my complaints against Painewebber prove ALL of 
Painewebber’s horrible crimes and HORRIBLE LIES. 


Painewebber Inc.’s head corporate executive officer 
Mr. Donald Marron is party to Painewebber’s crimes and 
NEEDS to be prosecuted for promoting the crimes of 
Painewebber Inc. by using Painewebber’s Consumers Affairs 
Department and Painewebber’s Legal Department for 
OBSTRUCTING justice and covering UP vicious, deliberate 
Painewebber crimes done to me like the June 19, 1990 
“through investigation” into the fact that Painewebber was 
unlawfully soliciting and selling me Mesa Pf. “a” limited 


2 
z 
¢ 


12 


partnership securities to me that were not properly 
registered with the Securities & Exchange Commission, 
being a PWI crimes I learned Painewebber had POSSIBLY 
done to me on April 12, 1990 being the very first time I ever 
heard the words BLUE SKY LAWS told me as a possibility 
on April 12, 1990 by the attorney who told me that 
Painewebber Inc. was a dishonest brokerage who was not 
conducting business according to the laws governing 
Painewebber’s business and that I had until August 27, 1990 
to filed Painewebber’s 8/27/86 crimes in Califomia...CC? 33] 


“See Davis, 839 F.2d at 1370”: 


On November 20, 1991 at NASD arbitration 9] 
00986 Painewebber’s lawyer Mr. Ratchick ANNOUNCED 
that Painewebber did not want any California crimes filed 
with NASD 91 00986 heard at the scheduled Dec. 17 & 18, 
1991 NASD hearing. 


Painewebber did not want any of California crimes 
of PWI that were filed with NASD 9] 00986 to be heard 
with the NASD arbitration, Painewebber told me and the 
NASD on Nov. 20, 1991 PWI wanted their many many 
California crimes of Painewebber filed with NASD 91 
00986 that NASD had scheduled for hearing on Dec. 17 
and 18, 1991 with NASD 91 00986; PWI very very alive 
crimes scheduled by NASD for hearing at the scheduled for 
hearing on Dec. 17 and 18, 1991 NASD hearing. 


ON March 15, 1991 I had filed ALL the many many very 

very alive crimes of Painewebber were legally filed with the 
NASD arbitration in NASD 91 00986 a very huge legally 
filed NASD arbitration claim with MANY different days of 
discovery of PWI crimes: on August 21, 1991 Painewebber 
unconstitutionally motion the NASD to dismiss all of @0ine? 
NASD 91 00986 for being STALE when the claim was very 
alive. 


- 


13 


PWI on August 21, 1991 motioned the NASD to 
dismiss MY very alive claims as being STALE claims 
inorder to defraud me; on Sept. 26, 1991 PWI threatened 
the NASD 91 00986 arbitrators to violate MY civil nghts. 


NASD knew that MY claims filed with NASD 91 
00986 had many different days of discovery and that IBY 
law was a citizen of California & had a legal right to be 
protected by all of the CA laws and that NASD 91 00986 
was a very alive claim when the NASD dismissed NASD 91 
00986 on 12/9/91 for stale, PWI violated federal securities 
laws in a continual pattern of crimes including Oct. 1989. 


On October 23, 1991 the NASD arbitration had 
scheduled a hearing for all of the many alive crimes filed 
with NASD 91 00986 for hearing Dec. 17 and 18, 1991. 


PWI did not want to attend THIS scheduled NASD 
hearing FOR ALL their many crimes, ALL the crimes done 
by PWI were filed with March 15, 1991 NASD claim 91 
00986; NASD 91 00986 had many different discovery days 
of Painewebber crimes including Painewebber’s March 1, 
1991 discovery day of breaches of fiduciary crimes done to 
me by Painewebber being VERY alive on Dec. 9, 1991 
when the NASD UNCONSTITUTIONALLY DISMISSED 
NASD 91 00986 INORDER TO DEFRAUD ME. 


NASD arbitration 91 00986 contained ALL of everyone of 
the MANY crimes that Painewebber had done to me and 
was a very HUGE NASD arbitration claim that included 
many different discovery days of many different very alive 
crimes that Painewebber had done to me including the PWI 
March 1, 1991 discovery day AGMA received being the 
NASD telling me that Painewebber KNEW the Lincoln, 
Nebraska PWI office and employees who violated the laws 
with me was an office and employee that Painewebber 
KNEW should have under monitor and watch because PWI 
knew they had been previously censured by the NASD for 


14 


not conducting business according to our laws with the 


public on Nov. 14, 1985. Kae, 3-J/- G / from NASI 


On Nov. 20, 1991 PWI told me and NASD attorney 
Mr. Salem that PWI wanted their CA crimes filed with 
NASD 91 00986 heard in Ca state court and on Nov. 21, 
1991 P awfully set to motion all PWI’s CA NASD 
filed crinte® fie&rd in California state court, on Nov. 21. 
1991 PWI unlawfully set to motion PWI’s CA crimes filed 
with NASD 91 00986 in Ca state Court to unlawfully claim 
res judicata and use the Federal Arbitration Act for crimes 
and depriving me of my legal and civil right to be protected 
by our laws for VILE crimes that Painewebber had done to 
me in a continual pattern of crimes. 


On Nov. 21, 1991 Painewebber Inc. was in 
CRIMINAL CONTEMPT OF COURT in Kem County 
Superior Court, Bakersfield, California inorder to use the 
Federal Arbitration Act for the CRIMES of corrupting our 
LEGAL PROCESS for the next six years, COSTING 
EVERYONE TONS OF MONEY & WASTING OUR 
TIME and for TOTALLY distroying MY life, health, the 
lives and health of MY family, MAKING my life into a hell. 


Painewebber used the FRAUDULENT unlawful 
dismissal of NASD arbitration claim 91 00986 that they 
created for the promotion of their criminal conduct 
continually and is a criminal who uses the Federal 
Arbitration Act unconstitutionally for distroying the lives of 
those who they violate. 


On Dec. 9, 1991 three NASD arbitrators who knew 
the LAWS very well and that Painewebber’s California 
crimes filed with NASD arbitration claim 91 00986 were all 
very alive and that Painewebber’s federal securities crimes 
filed with NASD 91 00986 were ALSO very alive because 
PWI had violated federal securities laws in a continual 
pattern of crimes including October 1989 being federal 


sa rime. 


15 


securities crimes of Painewebber filed with NASD 91 
00986 on pages 107 and 108; NASD 91 00986 was ALL 
very alive on 12/9/1991 a fact known to the NASD 91 
00986 arbitrators, the NASD arbitrators also knew that 
PWI was a congenital LIER. and because Painewebber was 
a lier who LIED to me continually that equitable estoppel 
should apply to ALL of Painewebber Inc. crimes filed with 
NASD 91 00986. 


The NASD 91 00986 arbitrators KNEW that 
Painewebber was a congenital LIER who needed to KNOW 
my worth and my husbands worth as a Painewebber defense 
for VIOLATING our laws, a criminal who justifies their 
crimes on the amount of wealth those have who they violate 
has is a CONGENITAL LIER, because the amount of 
wealth a victim of criminal Painewebber has does not 
justify that the criminal Painewebber can violated ariyone. 


On September 26, 1991 Painewebber wrote a letter 
to the NASD 91 00986 demanding the NASD must force 
me to give Painewebber items of my personal business and 
my husband’s business as a Painewebber defense for 
violating our laws with me and that what we owned being 
OUR wealth justified that PWI could be a criminal with me 
and violate me; according to PWI they MUST use for a PWI 
defense that it is OK to violate those who are not driven to 
live in poverty by PWI crimes, read the demand for 
document exchange of Painewebber and I am sure you will 
agree with me that this is WHY the Painewebber brokerage 
makes these demands on those who they violate. 


Claim CV F 93 5370 REC. was filed June 8, 1993 
because the criminal Painewebber on September 1, 1992 
unlawfully had me convicted of being a vexatious litigant 
and sanctioned by the court to pay the criminal PWI big 
bucks, AM NOT A VEXATIOUS LITIGANT 
CONFIRMED BY THE CALIFORNIA FIFTH 
APPELLATE COURT on October 27, 1994 in a document 


16 


suitable for publishing; I filed the CIVIL RIGHTS claim 
June 8, 1993 because the criminal PWI filed unlawful legal 
documents in CA state court on June 30, 1992 inorder that I 
would deprive of my legal right to be protected by laws. 


On Dec. 9, 1991 three NASD arbitrators who 
Painewebber most probably BOUGHT unlawfully 
dismissed the very very very alive NASD arbitration claim 
91 00986 in it’s entirety to DEFRAUD me inorder that 
PWI could claim res judicata F RAUDULENTLY. 


The NASD arbitration is being used for 
CORRUPTING the process of law by corporate criminals, | 
have filed two NASD arbitration claims and both of my 
NASD arbitration claims have been F RAUDULENTLY 
dismissed by the NASD. 


Painewebber was in criminal contempt when they 
petitioned the Federal Court for NASD arbitration on 
September 24, 1990 to use NASD 9] 00986 for the 
Promotion of PWI crimes and when PWI failed to WRITE 
the order of WHAT the Federal court ordered Painewebber 
to write for the order for NASD 1995 as to what could be 
HEARD at NASD 1995 being an ORDER given to PWI at 
the Federal Court Dec. 5, 1994 hearing granting PWI 
arbitration only for VALIDATING the legality of the 
STATUTE of limitations for PWI’s Federal Securities 
crimes remanded back to the U.S. DISTRICT Court by the 
U.S. 9th Circuit Appellate Court in their Nov. 1993 
memorandum for CV F 90 450 REC. 


PWI used NASD arbitration 91 00986 for having 
me unlawfully convicted of being a vexatious litigant, and 
for receiving money from me UNLAWFULLY in the form 

of sanctions granted to PWI for using the Sept. 24, 1990 
Federal Court granted NASD arbitration for the promotion 
of the crimes of PWI at the NASD where PWI continually 
failed to conduct themselves according to NASD rules and 


i tee oe ee 


16 


did not file ANY submission form for NASD 91 00986 as 
is required by NASD rules. 


PWI continually has failed to conduct themselves according 
to our rules and laws and uses the process of law for 


corrupting our legal process and violating civil rights laws. 


PWI uses the NASD for receiving money in the 
form of sanctions from our courts from their victims who 
they have deprive of justice at the NASD arbitration and 
who want a hearing on NASD filed crimes of PWI that PWI 
did not want heard with the NASD arbitration. 


PWT has victims convicted of being a vexatious litigant for 
wanting to have a hearing on the alive crimes that the 
criminal Painewebber Inc. has done that are filed with the 
NASD arbitration that PWI sets to motion in a court of law 
inorder that the NASD arbitration where the ALIVE crime 
of PW1 is located is fraudulently dismissed by the NASD, 
Painewebber unlawfully solicits investments to people to 
get commission money for Painewebber Inc. from those 
who they violate by soliciting and selling investments in 
violation with our laws, getting money from people by 
cheating people and VIOLATING our laws, this is what 
PWI does and PWI sell people horrible investments inorder 
to have plenty of investments for SHORTING the market. 


Painewebber needed eight (8) months to send me MY 
shares of Mesa Pf. “a” limited partnership securities, for 
PWI to hold MY securities that I wanted in MY possession 
for eight (8) months when I wanted these securities held at 
Painewebber in MY possession at MY home is a PWI crime 
of FELONY under California laws and U. S. Federal laws. 


Painewebber knowingly violates our laws and 
condones their crimes with the public as being the way 
Painewebber can do business with the public and when 
PW1 is confronted by their victims about their crimes PWI 


18 


defies the existence of our laws as being laws that apply to 
the Painewebber brokerage 


I learned PWI was a criminal on April 12, 1990 and 
on April 13, 1990 I told Painewebber that I wanted 
restitution for being violated by them and that if I did not 
get restitution for the crimes they had done to me I would 
be SUING Painewebber for violating me. 


PWI VIOLATED me and that is an undeniable fact 
of truth and legal documents filed with MY claims prove 
that Painewebber is a criminal who has continually violated 
our laws with me. 


Painewebber continually defies the existence of 
our laws and COVERS UP THEIR CRIMES, and lies to 
the authorities telling everyone that Painewebber does not 
violate our laws when Painewebber has violated all the laws 
governing their business with me. 


PWI has continually been LYING to everyone, 
continually to everyone, in our courts, in legal documents, 
LYING all the time, PW1 is a horrible public menace; legal 
documents prove this as being a fact filed with MY claims: 
PWI has continually covered up their Painewebber crimes 
done to me, the through investigation of June 19, 1990 
PROVES Painewebber knew that on August 27, 1986 
violated the California and Nebraska Blue Sky laws and 
UNLAWFULLY SOLICITED SECURITIES to me prior to 
Proper registration with the Securities & Exchange 
Commission; on August 27, 1986 the Mesa Pf. “a” 
securities were not registered for soliciting in California or 
Nebraska; on August 27, 1986 the Mesa Pf “a” limited 
partnership securities were NOT properly registered with 
the S. E. C. for soliciting to anyone who lives in a state 
protected by BLUE SKY LAWS because the Mesa Pf. “a” 
limited partnership securities were unlawful for PWI to be 
soliciting until September 19, 1986; this was a fact that 


Th iscteiieateeenedeieiicemnall 


19 


Painewebber KNEW for sure on June 19, 1990 that on 
27, 1986 Painewebber was UNLAWFULLY 
SOLICITING MESA PF. “a” limited partnership securities 

to me in violation with BLUE SKY LAWS. 


On April 12, 19901 learned as a possibility that the 
Mesa Pf. “a” limited partnership securities Painewebber 
solicited and sold to me on 8/27/86 POSSIBLY were 
securities that were not properly registered with the S. E. C. 
when they were sold to me by PWL. 


The securities attorney in Sacramento, Ca told me 
HE thought this because PWI had never provide me any 
disclosure and securities attorney thought possibly PWI 
was selling me securities that were not properly registered 
with the S.E.C.; He told me that if PWI was selling 
securities that were not properly registered with the S.E.C. 
that PW1 was violating CA blue sky laws; April 12, 19901 
learned as a possibility that PWI possibly had sold me the 
Mesa Pf. “a” securities in violation with Ca blue sky laws. 


Prior to April 12, 1990 I had never heard the words 

“blue sky laws” refered to any securities or the Mesa Pf. “a” 
limited partnership securities that the lawyer thougigPWI 
had possibly sold to me in violation with proper 

etration laws of the Securities Exchange Commission 
being @ CRIME I DISCOVERED as a possibility on April 
12, 1990 the day I learned the words “BLUE SKY LAWS”, 
prior to April 12, 19901 has never heard the words blue sky 
laws in MY life; THEN to lear as a FACT on October 30, 
1990 that the Mesa Pf. “a” securities were not properly 
registered with the S. E. C. being a PWI crime confirmed on 
October 30, 1990 when I was able to get the proof of PWI's 
crimes of unlawfully selling me the Mesa Pf. “a” prior to 
proper registration with the S. E. C. on August 27, 1986; 
the Mesa pf. “a” securities were not properly registered 
until September 19, 1986 with the S. E. C. 


20 
A December 5, 1994 


On Dec. 5, 1994 the Federal Court AGAIN granted 
Painewebber another NASD arbitration because on October 
19, 1994 Painewebber inc. NORDER TO OBSTRUCT 
JUSTICE and delay the finalizing of ALL the crimes PWI 
had done to me, PWI crimes which I had petitioned for 
wanting heard in the U. S. Supreme Court on September 12, 
1994 


On Oct. 19, 1994 when PWI filed a motion for 
another NASD arbitration for CV F 90 450 REC. the 
criminal PWI KNEW that all of PWI’s crimes had been 
petitioned to the United States Supreme Court for being 
FINALIZED, this is WHY Painewebber obstructed justice 
on October 19, 1994 when Painewebber Inc. petitioned the 
Federal court that the FEDERAL SECURITIES CRIMES 
ruled legally ALIVE and filed with CV F 90 450 REC. by 
the U. S. Federal Ninth Appellate Court on Nov. 1993 were 
Painewebber crimes that the NASD arbitration by law 
MUST confirm as being ALIVE PWI federal securities 
crimes filed with CV F 90 450 REC. 


On Oct. 19, 1994 PWI filed a motion in U. S. 
District Court inorder to obstruct justice AGAIN with CV F 
90 450 REC., on Dec. {9, 1994 Painewebber mandated the 
U. S. Federal Court to grant PWI another NASD arbitration 
for VALIDATING THE LEGALITY OF THE STATUTE 
OF LIMITATIONS which had been validated by the U. S. 
Ninth Circuit Court as being filed with CV F 90 450 REC. 
and very alive PWI Federal Securities crimes filed with July 
17, 1990 filed U. S. District Court Federal Securities fraud 
claim CV F 90 450 REC. 

Exhibit A. 


Considering that the Ninth Appellate Court justices had 
read until pages 28 and 29 it stands to reason that the Ninth 


21 


Appellate Court justices had READ page three (3) 
confirming the “some year later” as being April 1989 
written @e/ 

stated on page three (3) of July 17, 1990 filed CV F 90 450 
REC. and being a very alive PWI federal securities crime 
filed with CV F 90 450 REC. and a very alive PWI federal 
securities crime known TO everyone. 


On July 17, 1990 when CV F 90 450 REC. was 
filed the legal statute of limitations for federal securities 
crimes was five (5) years; on Dec. 19, 1991 the enactment 
of Federal Deposit Insurance Act Section 476 changed the 
LAWS for PWI Federal Securities crimes done to me as is 
the LAWS of the state of California for any crime of 
FRAUD which is FROM the time of discovery, CA civil 
code procedure Section 338 (4) for PWI securities crimes of 
the FRAUD filed with CV F 90 450 REC. THIS IS THE 
LAW for PWI Federal Securities crimes done to me filed 
with CV F 90 450 REC., crimes done to me before June 19, 
1991 MUST be rules according to the CA laws for fraud. 


PWI has used the FEDERAL EAST. DISTRICT COURT 
of California for obstructing justice and delaying the 
finalizing of CV F 90 450 REC. and PWI must be 
SEVERELY punished for using the Federal Eastern 
District Court of Ca and the Califomia COURTS for the 
promotion of Painewebber criminal conduct DEMANDING 
arbitration for using arbitration for crime is FRAUD. 


B. PWI made a CONTRACT on 12/5/1994 


On Dec. 5, 1994 Painewebber Inc. made a 
CONTRACT with me and Magistrate Dennis L. Beck of U. 
S. Federal Eastern District Court of California, on Dec. 5, 
1994 Painewebber’s lawyer Ms Catherine J. Pratt made a 
VERBALLY contract with U. S. Magistrate Judge Dennis 
L. Beck and me, Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per being that the 


siti 


22 


FEDERAL court would grant PWI another NASD 
arbitration ONLY for establishing the legality of the statute 
of limitations of PWI’s crimes remanded back to the district 
court by the U. S. Ninth Appellate Court in their Nov. 1993 
Memorandum for CV F 90 450 REC., this was the ONLY 
issue that could be addressed at the NASD arbitration 
granted to PWI on Dec. 5, 1994 and on Dec. 5, 1994 the 
COURT ordered Painewebber’s attorney Ms Catherine J. 
Pratt to WRITE the order for the NASD 1995 arbitrator of 
the NASD arbitration 1995 granted to PWI on Dec. 5, 1994 
by the U. S. District Court by Magistrate Dennis L. Beck. 
for NASD 1995 only to validate the legality of the statute of 
limitations of PWI’s securities crimes remanded back to the 
district court by the U. S. Ninth Circuit Appellate Court in 
Nov. 1993. 


On Dec. 5, 1994 PWI’s lawyer Ms Catherine J. 
Pratt WHEN ordered by the court to write the order of the 
court for NASD 1995 was with FULL knowledge WHAT 
was allowed heard at the “1995” NASD arbitration granted 
to PWI on Dec. 5, 1994 by the federal court WHEN 
Painewebber’s attorney WAS ordered by the Federal court 
to write a PROPER ORDER for the NASD 1995 arbitrator 
of NASD arbitration 95 00357, BUT Painewebber’s 
attomey FAILED to write What THE COURT ORDERED 
heard at 1995 NASD arbitration inorder that CRIMINAL 
Painewebber could again used another NASD arbitration 
for promoting PWI crimes and deprive me of my legal and 
civil nghts to be protected by the laws of this land. 


C. FACTS 


1. PWI uses their arbitration clause in their contract 
mandating arbitration for CRIMES. 


2. The NASD arbitration is PROMOTING the crimes of 
vile corporate criminals such as Painewebber by failing to 
tule claims equitably and according to OUR laws. 


23 


3. Painewebber uses the mail for the promotion of PW1 
crimes, continually. 


4. Painewebber LIES continually, and Painewebber has 
violated our laws in a continual pattern of crimes and has 
degraded our legal process using the Federal Arbitration 


Act for the promotion of criminal conduct continually. 


5 Painewebber’s Consumers Affairs Department does 
COVER UP INVESTIGATION and has LIED to the 
Nebraska Banking Authorities who the California 
Department of Justice told me in April 1990 to contact for 
help concerning ME being violated by Painewebber. 


PWI did a cover up THROUGH investigation into 
the crimes that Painewebber had done to me completed on 
June 19, 1990 by Painewebber’s Consumers Affairs 
Department, PWI on June 19, 1990 told the Nebraska 
Banking Authorities and ME a horrible LIE, PWI violated 
our laws: in May 1990 the California Department of Justice 
told me to contact the Nebraska Justice Department 
conceming Painewebber’s defiance of the laws governing , 
their violating our laws. 


Painewebber’s crimes are COVERED UP by PWI’s 
head Corporate Executive Officer Mr. Donald Maron who 
uses his Consumers Affairs Department for covering UP 
Painewebber’s crimes done to the public. 


6. Painewebber’s head Corporate Executive Officers is 
party to the crimes done to me by Painewebber because he 
had his Consumers Affairs Department do the COVER UP 
INVESTIGATION completed on June 19, 1990. 


24 


The corporate officers of Painewebber use the process of 
our laws for the promotes of the criminal conduct of 
Painewebber employees: the Painewebber corporation uses 
it’s employees for crimes and their corporate officers as 
TOOLS for obstructing justice. 


Painewebber uses their corporate executive officers, 
consumers affairs department, legal department and other 
employees in their corporation for DEPRIVING victims of 
their vile deliberate crimes of having JUSTICE for being a 
victim of the CRIMINAL Painewebber. 


D. I HAVE BEEN DENIED JUSTICE 


In October 1994 I was deprive of MY legal rights 
with claim CV F 93 5370 REC. which is Ninth Appellate 
Court claim 93 16337; the October 17, 1994 order of the 
Ninth Circuit Appellate Court was appealed on October 24, 
1994 with the Ninth Circuit Appellate Court BECAUSE I 
was unable to go forward with the Petition for Writ of 
Certiorari UNTIL now because Painewebber on October 19, 
1994 had petitioned for STAYING all of the many crimes 
that the criminal Painewebber Inc. had done to me UNTIL 
THE NASD COULD VALIDATE THE LEGALITY OF 
THE STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS ON PWI’s CRIMES 
REMANDED BACK TO THE DISTRICT COURT in the 
Nov. 1993 Memorandum for CV F 90 450 REC. being a 
legality of statute of limitations that had ALREADY BEEN 
ESTABLISHED by the U. S. Ninth Appellate Court and by 
COURT RECORDS AS BEING. VERY ALIVE PWI 
FEDERAL SECURITIES CRIMES filed legally with CV F 
90 450 REC. that had been wrongfully dismissed as being 
Stale because of Painewebber Inc. crimes; the true fact that 
PAInewebber was petitioning the Federal District Court for 
another NASD arbitration for deliberately delaying justice 
and to cause me to be DEPRIVED of going forward with 
the Writ of Certiorari UNTIL NOW . 


7 


ke ama NN, Bane Ue he yah 4 ai ak. ah 


25 


This is a PETITION FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI 
for both the October 17, 1994 order and the February 20, 
1997 order of the United States Ninth Appellate Court. 


The lawyers of CRIMINALS cannot filed unlawful 
legal documents in our courts for corrupting justice such as 
PAINEWEBBER did on October 19, 1994 for causing 
costly delays in finalizing claims filed with a court of law; 
the lawyers of criminals cannot use the Federal Arbitration 
Act for the promotion of Painewebber’s crimes with the 
public and for obstructing justice such as Painewebber has 
continually done to me, PWI was in criminal contempt of 
court in Kern County Superior Court on November 21, 
1991 when PWI unlawfully set to motion PWI Ca crimes 
filed with NASD 91 00986 that PWI did not want heard at 
the scheduled NASD Dec. 17 & 18, 1991 hearing. 


Painewebber Inc.’s lawyer RATCHICK was in CRIMINAL 
CONTEMPT of court in Kern County on Nov. 21, 1991 
inorder to be able to file unconstitutional legal documents 

in Kern County on June 30, 1992 which were filed by 

PWT’ legal department unlawfully and are unconstitutional 
legal documents Painewebber filed in Kern County 

Superior Court for receiving MONEY unlawfully from me 
and for USING the Kern County Superior Court, 

Bakersfield, California for very vicious crimes of 
UNCONSTITUTIONALLY having me convicted as being a 
vexatious litigant and for receiving money for PWI by 
violating our laws; also on July 1, 1992 Painewebber told 

the California Fifth Appellate Court that PWI wanted a 
SETTLEMENT hearing with me when on June 30, 1992 the. 
had filed UNLAWFUL DOCUMENTS in Kem county 2 
Superior Court for unlawfully having me declared as a a 
vexatious litigant and to receive money from me for being a 


Lawyers who defend criminals cannot also become 
criminals and use the process of law for criminal conduct. 


26 


PWI cannot be THREATENING NASD arbitrators 
such as PWI did with their September 26, 1991 letter. 
Painewebber cannot have people unlawfully convicted of 
being A VEXATIOUS LITIGANT BY CORRUPTING THE 
PROCESS OF LAW. 


I AM NOT A VEXATIOUS LITIGANT, THIS HAS 
BEEN CONFIRMED BY THE CALIFORNIA FIFTH 
APPELLATE COURT with a document suitable for 
publishing; the lawyers of criminals cannot FILE 
MOTIONS for violating people or FOR UNLAWFULLY 
HAVING PEOPLE CONVICTED OF BEING 
VEXATIOUS LITIGANT such as criminal Painewebber has 
done with me; L Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per am the 
VICTIM OF VERY SERIOUS CRIMES done to me by 
Painewebber a criminal and L Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per 
am petitioning the two (2) orders of the Ninth Circuit 
Appellate Court denying me rehearing for MY two very 
alive lawful claims filed with the United States Eastern 
District Court of California to the United States Supreme 
court for finalizing and for receiving justice for being a 
victim of the corporate criminal Painewebber Inc. 


On July 17, 1990 L Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per 
legally filed yf CRIMES of federal securities fraud against 
Painewebber in Federal court claim CV F 90 450 REC. 
because the criminal PWI was threatening ME to remove 
MY June 22, 1990 filed California Civil Code of Procedure 
Section 337 claim from the Kem County Municipal Court: 
the Federal court knows that claim CV F 90 450 REC. IS 
ALSO Ninth Circuit Appellate Court Claim 92 16894. 


The Federal Court also knows that because of 
Painewebber unlawfully having me convicted of being a 
vexatious litigant on September 1, 1992 and sanctioned by 
the Kern County court to pay Painewebber big bucks for 
depriving me of MY civil rights on Sept. 1, 1992 being 
WHY on June 8, 1993 I filed $72 million dollar CIVIL 


27 


RIGHTS CLAIM CV F 93 5370 REC. the claim that is also 
Ninth Circuit Court claim 93 16337. 


This is Writ of Certiorari for the Ninth Circuit 
Appellate courts orders of October 17, 1994 and February 
20, 1997. 


3. REASONS FOR GRANTING PETITION 
FOR WRIT OF CERTIORARI 


1. Laws must be made that criminals cannot be 
using mandatory arbitration clauses in contracts for 
depriving victims of crimes of having those who violate our 
laws prosecuted. 


2. Corporate violators of our laws who use 
arbitration for CRIME must be severely prosecuted befere 
quickly by our courts and their victims must not be made to 
suffer for years and years such as I have been made to suffer 
for being a victims of the criminal PWI who has an 
arbitration clause for promoting their crimes with the 
public. 


3. Arbitration should not be used for DEPRIVING 
PERSONS’ OF THEIR LEGAL RIGHTS TO BE 
PROTECTED BY OUR LAWS that are written to protect 
persons of criminals who are violating the written laws such 
as Painewebber Inc. has used NASD arbitration 91 00986 
and 95 00357 to deprive me of the WRITTEN laws of this 
land that Painewebber Inc. has violated with me in a 
continual pattern of PWI violating the written laws of our 
land with me. 


4. The Ninth Circuit Appellate Court’s order filed 
October 17, 1994 was on October 24, 1994 was legally 
FILED as appealed, the fact that PWI stayed their crimes 
did not deprive me of MY LEGAL nights concerning the 
October 17, 1994 order of United States Ninth Appellate 


28 


Court because I was forced by law not to continue with the 
writ of certiorari for the Oct. 17, 1994 order until NOW. 


The court knows that BY LAW COULD NOT 
proceed ON to the United States Supreme Court on October 
24, 1994 because Painewebber had filed a STAY on all my 
claims with PWI’s petition for STAYING their crimes filed 
with the United States Eastern District of California Court 
on October 19, 1994 being a PWI unlawful legal document 
that prevented me to take the October 17, 1994 filed 
ORDER of the Ninth Appellate Court to the United States 
Supreme Court for Petitioning for Writ of Certiorari until 
NOW. 


5. I Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per am petitioning to the 
United States Supreme Court for BOTH the orders of 
October 24, 1994 and April 10, 1997. 


the U. S. Supreme Court would WANT to grant me, 
Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per a Petition for Writ of Certiorari; 
the October 17, 1994 order of the Ninth Circuit Appellate 
Court was appealed on October 24, 1994 at the Ninth 
Circuit Appellate Court for Civil Rights Claim 93 CV F 
5370 REC. because Painewebber Inc. on October 19, 1994 
HAD FILED A MOTION PETITIONING FOR ANOTHER 
NASD arbitration in U. S. District Court on October 19, 
1994 for July 17, 1990 filed Federal Securities Fraud Claim 
CV F 90 450 REC. that deprive me of going forward with 
the WRIT OF CERTIORARI for CV F 93 5370 REC. until 
now. 


October 19, 1994 Painewebber again petitioned the 
U.S. Federal Court for NASD arbitration for HEARING 
CLAIMS filed with NASD arbitration 91 00986 that 
Painewebber Inc. did not want heard at NASD arbitration 
91 00986 at the December 17 and 18, 1991 hearing that the 
NASD had scheduled for hearing ALL of the very alive 


: 
t 
‘ 
: 
a 


29 


crimes of Painewebber filed with NASD arbitration claim 
91 00986. 


On October 19, 1994 Painewebber filed a motion in 
the federal district court for CV F 90 450 REC. staying all 
MY claims filed against Painewebber Inc. until the 
federal securities violations of Painewebber Inc. that were 
reversed by the Ninth Circuit Appellate Court on Nov. 1, 
1993 as being very alive Painewebber federal securities 
violations REVERSED by the Ninth Circuit Appellate 
Court on page three (3) of July 17, 1990 filed Federal 
Securities Fraud Claim CV F 90 450 REC. KNOWN as 
being April 1989 for DISCOVERY of PWI's the May 7, 
1987 being ALIVE Federal Securities Fraud crime being a 
VERY alive securities fraud claim fraudulently dismissed 
by 3 NASD arbitrators on Dec. 9, 1991 as being a STALE 
Painewebber securities fraud claim THAT WAS A VERY 
ALIVE Painewebber securities fraud claim when dismissed 
by three (3) NASD arbitrators on Dec. 9, 1991 for 
DEFRAUDING me. 


NOTE: The Ninth Appellate Circuit court had read claim 
CV F 90 450 REC. UNTIL PAGE 239, fact is confirmed by 
the Ninth Circuit Appellate Court in their Nov. 1, 1993 
MEMORANDUM, logic tells us the Ninth Appellate court 
justices KNEW that April 1989 was the discovery of PWI’s 
May 1987 securities crime, logic tells us the Ninth Circuit 
Judges had read claim CV F 90 450 REC. atleast UNTIL 
page 29, the Memorandum confirms they knew that April 
1989 was the discovery day for PWI’s May 1987 securities 
crime located on page three (3) of CV F 90 450 REC. 


RELIEF REQUESTED 


L Juanita w. Childs, Pro Per ask the United States 
Supreme court for justice for being a victims of a vicious 
criminal who has distroyed my health, life and the lives of 
my family by not conducting business according io our 


30 


laws, Painewebber has continually used the United States 
Federal District Court and the Federal Arbitration ACT for 
depriving me of justice which has caused the total ruination 
of MY health, life and the health and lives of my family 
causing me and my family GROSS suffering and pain for 
the last seven (7) years; PWI knew in Federal Court on 
September 24, 1990 that PWI had violated the federal 
securities laws with me and that going to arbitration for a 
deliberate, undeniable crime would be wasting everyone’s 
time, money and resources; the continual pursuit of needing 
to try and get some justice for vile, deliberate crimes done 
to me by PWI wanting arbitration for promoting CRIMES 
has caused me to have my LIFE & health completely 
distroyed, MY husband’s LIFE & health distroyed, MY 
families lives distroyed, PWI KNEW on September 24, 
1990 when they demanded at the Federal District court to 
have arbitration for their crimes of not conducting business 
that they would be making a very unlawful motion in the U. 
S. Federal Court, CV F 90 450 REC. is legally filed under 
the protection of S.E.C. Rule “ii64”, on Sept. 24, 1990 the 
U. S. Federal court KNEW Painewebber was demanding 
that I Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per would be taking a 
CRIMINAL LAW SUIT to the NASD arbitration that I 
wanted PROSECUTED by the court because Painewebber 
had violated me; Painewebber petitioned the United States 
Federal Court in August 1990 for arbitrating crimes and 
Painewebber used the arbitration for DISTROYING my 
LIFE, costing everyone TONS of money CORRUPTING 
our process of law for the next seven years, distroying me 
and my family DELIBERATELY making me & my family 
live in HELL, viciously using the laws for promoting crime. 


Respectfully Nm anil ZU, Chol feb, 


Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per 
329 Parkview Circle, 

Taft, California 93268 
Date: August 5, 1997 


ary 


Appendix A-- 


UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT 


JUANITA CHILDS, 
Plaintiff-Appellant 


No. 92 - 16894 


v. 
PAINEWEBBER INCORPORATE, 
Defendant-Appellee 


Nee ee SOY A AY 


United State Ninth Appellate Court November 8, 1993 filed 
MEMORANDUM for FEDERAL SECURITIES FRAUD 
claim CV F 90 450 REC. REVERSING & REMANDING 
DaineWebber’s crimes of federal securities FRAUD of 
October 1989 on pages 28 & 29 of CV F 90 450 REC. also 
being filed with NASD arbitration claim 91 00986 on pages 
107 & 108 and KNOWN to the three (3) NASD arbitrators 
who deliberately DEFRAUDED ME on Dec. 9, 1991 when 
the three NASD arbitrators who KNEW my claim was very 
alive CRUELLY dismissed NASD arbitration claim 91 
00986 AS BEING “STALE” for the very very alive 
FEDERAL SECURITIES FRAUD crimes of criminal 
Painewebber and all the other many many many very very 
very alive California & federal crimes filed with NASD 
arbitration claim in favor of CRIMINAL and VIOLATOR 
of our laws Painewebber Inc. 


The Ninth Appellate Judges reversed and remanded 
Painewebber’s crimes of federal securities FRAUD crimes 
filed with CV F 90 450 REC. back to the United States 
District Court for FURTHER proceedings. 


MEMORANDUM SUBMITTED November 1, 1993 
Before: SCHRODER, D. W. NELSON, & THOMPSON, 
circuit judges of the United States Ninth Appellate Court 


NO. “40” COURT RECORD OF CV F 90 450 REC. 


2a 


The Ninth Circuit Appellate Court ruled CV F 90 
450 REC. according to the applicable California laws for 
fraud stating “ In this circuit the limitations period for 
claims arising under the antifraud provision of the federal 
securities laws in California begins to run at the same time 
as does the California period for fraud.” 


Robuck v. Dean Witter & Co... 649 F. 2d 641, 644 
(1980). 


The Ninth Circuit Appellate Court states on page 3 
“alleged violations of section 10 (b) are subject to the three- 
year statutation for fraud” California Civil Code of 
Procedure Section 338 (4). 


Davis _v. Birr. Wilson & Co. 
839 f.2d 1369, 1369-70 (9th Circuit 1988). 


“The statute of limitations begins to run when the plaintiff 
has actual knowledge of the fraud or knowledge of facts 
sufficient to put a reasonable person on notice.” 


MY discovery day is April 12, 1990 and it is based 
upon the discovery that Painewebber had violated our laws 
& possibly ALSO laws governing registration of securities . 


Painewebber did violate our BLUE SKY LAWS 
with me on 8/27/86 confirmed with facts on October 30, 
1990 as being an undeniable crime of our securities laws. 


The Ninth Circuit Court judges should have ruled 
upon this factor also that PWI had violated registration laws 
a crime with an April 12, 1990 discovery day filed with 
NASD 91 00986, prior to April 12, 1990 I was totally 
unaware of laws governing the securities business or that 
possibly PWI had violated proper registration laws. 


- 
a 


2 act ll tee wt 


3a 


Legal court documents filed with CV F 90 450 REC. 
confirm UNDENIABLY Painewebber Inc. on August 27, 
1986 was violating BLUE SKY LAWS in California and 
Nebraska when PaineWebber Inc. was unlawfully soliciting 
and selling the Mesa Pf. “a” limited partnership securities 
to me prior to proper registration with the S.E.C. being a 
PWI securities CRIME I disvoered as a possibility on April 


the California & Nebraska Blue Sky Laws with me on 
August 27, 1986 with the unlawful solicitation and sale of 
the Mesa Pf. “a” limited partnership securities to me that 
were not PROPERLY REGISTERED for selling or 
soliciting to anyone UNTIL September 19, 1986 


Legally filed with claim CV F 90 450 REC. prior to 
going to NASD arbitration 91 00986 was legally filed the 
undeniable PROOF concerning Painewebber’s August 27, 
1986 UNLAWFUL sale to me of the Mesa Pf. “a” limited 
partnership securities THAT WERE NOT PROPERLY 
REGISTERED WITH THE SEC on August 27, 1986. 


The Mesa Pf. “a” Limited Partnership securities 
were NOT legal for Painewebber Inc. to be selling & 
soliciting to me or ANYONE prior to proper registration 
as PaineWebber Inc. was doing on August 27, 198$and 
LYING about the investment to me Juanita W. Childs when 
they were solicited and sold to me FRAUDULENTLY. 


The Ninth Circuit Appellate Court on November 1, 
1993 remanded Painewebber’s May 1987 federal securities 
violation crimes with the April 1989 discovery day of April 
1989 being on page three (3) is remanded back to the 
district court claim CV F 90 450 REC. for further finding 
as to WHEN was “some year later”. 


4a 


On October 26, 19944, Juanita W. Childs, Pro Per 
confirmed at the MANDATORY SCHEDULING 
HEARING that the discovery day date for “some year later” 
was written on page three (3) as April 1989 being the date 
of April 1989 and that the date of April 1989 for discovery 
of Painewebber’s May 1987 federal securities violations 
filed with CV F 90 450 REC. was very alive for discovery 
of the May 1987 for a PaineWebber federal securities 
violation claim filed with CV F 90 450 REC. on July 17, 
1990. 


On December 9, 1991 the NASD arbitration 
fraudulently dismissed NASD 91 00986 causing the 
fraudulent dismissal of CV F 90 450 REC. 


On September 26, 1991 Painewebber Inc. Legal 
Department had made UNCONSTITUTIONAL demands 
upon the NASD arbitration 91 00986 claim for violating 
MY civil nights, Painewebber Inc. claiming that my personal 
businesss and property WERE a Painewebber defence for 
violating the laws governing Painewebber’s business with 
me. 


MY property and personal business are not a 
Painewebber Inc. defence for anyone at PaineWebber Inc. 
to violate me or to violate our laws. 


On October 19, 1994 PaineWebber AGAIN had the 
GAULL to again petitioned the U. S. Federal District court 
for another NASD arbitration for Painewebber’s FEDERAL 
SECURITIES fraud crimes filed with CV F 90 450 REC. 
that were remanded back to the Federal Eastern District of 
California court on Nov. 1, 1993 by the U. S. Ninth Circuit 
Appellate court being the Painewebber Federal Securities 
crimes the crimes ruled alive by the Ninth Circuit remanded 
back to the district court inorder that ALL the other MANY 
alive crimes of PaineWebber filed with CV F 90 450 REC. 


ce Nala A nc IN Sk Tr Bc nH 


5a 


would be addressed in the court but PaineWebber inorder 
to avoid CONVICTION by the court for their crimes of 
federal securities fraud filed with CV F 90 450 REC. on 
October 19, 1994 petitioned the Federal District Court 
demanding that the NASD arbitration must ACCORDING 
TO LAW validate the legality of the statute of limitations of 
PaineWebber’s federal securities crimes filed with CV F 90 
450 REC. which were FRAUDULENTLY dismissed by the 
NASD arbitration on Dec. 9, 1991 as being stale 
Painewebber federal securities crimes, VILE PWI CRIMES 
that the Ninth Circuit Appellate Court ruled ALIVE federal 
securities crimes in the MEMORANDUM of the U. S. 
Ninth Appellate Court on Nov. 1, 1993. 


Painewebber on October 19, 1994 AGAIN 
petitioned AGAIN the U. S. Federal Court inorder that the 
NASD arbitrators would VALIDATE THE LEGALITY OF 
THE STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS of Painewebber’s 
FEDERAL SECURITIES crimes remanded back to the 
district court by the U. S. Ninth Circuit Appellate Court 
filed with CV F 90 450 REC. because Painewebber inc 
does not think that the Ninth Circuit Appellate our ss 
compedent in knowing the correct law govermung “we statute 
of limitations laws governing that govern the secunis 
business of PaineWebber Inc. 


Painewebber was with full knowledge on Uctoder 
26, 1994 that should Painewebber mandated the federa! 
court to grant Painewebber Inc. another NASD arbitration 
for CV F 90 450 REC. that Painewebber Inc. would be 
using the Federal Arbitration Act AGAIN for the 
promotion of PaineWebber Inc. crimes. 


PaineWebber Inc. HAS used the United State 
Eastern District court of California and the NASD 
arbitration for the promotion of Painewebber crimes with 


me Juanita W. Childs. Pro Pur) Contirnalhy, 


6a 

The NASD arbitration is incapable of ruling claims 
filed with them according to our laws and is continually 
defrauding victims who are being FORCED by law to use 
the NASD arbitration for having their claims heard, the 
NASD arbitration is unlawfully dismissing claims in favor 
of criminals who support the NASD arbitraton organization 
& victims of criminal who are mandated to use the NASD 
arbitration are continually being DEFRAUDED at the 
NASD arbitration, it happened to me TWICE, with NASD 
91 00986 & 95 00357. 


According to laws governing arbitration the NASD 
arbitration does not need to conform to our laws and they 
do NOT have the power to prosecut criminals who violate 
our laws and who NEED to be prosecuted. 


PaineWebber has used the U. S. Federal Eastern 
District Court of California for obstruction of justice and 
using the Federal Arbitration act for crimes with claim CV 
F 90 450 REC. and for deliberately WASTING everyones 
resourses, time, money for at least an additional six years. 


United States Ninth Appellate in 92 16894 
confirms that filed with July 17, 1990 Federal Securities 
Fraud clam CV F 90 450 REC. LEGALLY on pages 28 
and 29 are VERY ALIVE PaineWebber Inc. federal 
securities crimes filed with CV F 90 450 REC. 


The Ninth Circuit Appellate Court on Nov. 8, 1993 
REVERSES and REMANDS the October 1989 Federal 
Securities fraud claims of PaineWebber Inc. that are on 
pages 28 and 29 of Federal Securities Claim CV F 90 450 
REC. and pages 107 and 108 of NASD arbitration claim 91 
00986 being PWI alive crimes remanded back to the Federal 
District Court by the U. S. Ninth Circuit Appellate Court. — 


The Ninth Circuit appellate Court further rules that 


further further proceeding in the court are necessary 
concerning Painewebber’s crimes. 


SE 


Ja 


The discovery day of Pwi’s securities fraud of May 
1987 known to the Ninth Circuit Appellate Court 
justices as being very alvie, legally filed with CV F 90 
450 REC. is on page 3 confirmed as April 1989. 


The Ninth Circuit ruled that CV F 90 450 REC. 
must be ruled according to California Civil Code of 
Procedure 338 (4); page 3 of CV F 90 450 REC.confirming 
the April 1989 date as the time of discovery for the May 
1987 Painewebber VIOLATION of federal securities fraud 
filed with CV F 90 450 REC. 


On Nov. 30, 1993 the Ninth Circuit Appellate 
Court order of Nov. 1, 1993 was filed with the U. S. 
Eastern District of California Court claim CV F 90 450 
REC. and only those FEDERAL SECURITIES crimes of 
Painewebber filed with CV F 90 450 REC. were remanded 
for CV F 90 450 REC. back to the district court to establish 
the time of “WHEN” was the discovery of “some year 
later”for the May 1987 PaineWebber Inc. federal securities 
violation of Painewebber Inc. being written as fact on page 
three of CV F 90 450 REC. confirming that the correct date 
of discovery for the May 1987 PaineWebber federal 
securities crime IS April 1989 for when “some year later” 
occured. 


On October 26, 1994 at the conference hearing for 
CV F 90 450 REC. I confirmed to the court that the 
DISCOVERY DAY of PaineWebber’s May 1987 securities 
crime was on page 3 confirmed as APRIL 1989 for 
discovery of PaineWebber’s May 1987 securities crime. 


The Federal District court and PaineWebber Inc. had 
confirmation as to the very alive April 1989 discovery day 
of Painewebber’s May 1987 federal securities violation 
filed with CV F 90 450 REC. on October 26, 1994. 


lh A hn a ns cm 


8a 
Appendix B -- 
MEMORANDUM filed June 28, 1994 


UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 


FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT 
JUANITA CHILDS, ) No. 93 16337 
Plaintiff-Appellant ) 
v. ) 
PAINEWEBBER INCORPORATE, ) 
Defendant-Appellee ) 


September 1, 1992 discovery day CIVIL RIGHTS CLAIM 


CV F 93 5379 REC. filed June 8, 1993 in the United States 
Eastern District court of California against Paine Webber. 


Appeal from the U. S. District Court for the Eastern District 
of California, Robert E. Coyle, Chief Judge, Presiding 


Submitted June 21, 1994 
Before: Circuit Judges Tang, Pregerson, and T. G. Nelson 


Claim CV F 93 5370 REC. was filed on June 8, 
1993 against PaineWebber Inc. because of GROSS 
CRIMINAL conduct done by PaineWebber to deprive me 
of MY civil rights. 


PaineWebber uses the Federal Arbitration Act 
unlawfully, for crimes, for getting money unlawfully, for 
having persons who want their claims heard convicted of 
being vexatious litigants. 


Claim CV F 93 5370 REC. was filed because Painewebber 
UNLAWFULLY HAD ME SANCTIONED BY THE 


9a 


COURT AND CONVICTED OF BEING A VEXATIOUS 
LITIGANT ON SEPTEMBER 1, 1992. 


PaineWebber is using our laws unlawfully and 
depriving those who they violate from their legal and civil 
nights to be protected by our laws. 

MEMORANDUM FILED JUNE 28, 1993. 


Robuck v. Dean Witter & Co... 649 F. 2d 641, 644 
(1980). 


Davis _v. Birr, Wilson & Co. 
839 f.2d 1369, 1369-70 (9th Circuit 1988). 


“The statute of limitations begins to run when the plaintiff 
has actual knowledge of the fraud or knowledge of facts 
sufficient to put a reasonable person on notice.” 


The U. S. Ninth Appellate Court upheld the U. S. District 
court’s ruling of being “res judicata” to Federal Securities 
Fraud claim CV F 90 450 REC. for the September 1, 1992 
discovery day civil rights crimes of Painewebber Inc. filed 
with CV F 93 5370 REC. of unlawfully having me 
convicted of being a VEXACIOUS LITIGANT for wanting 
a hearing on Painewebber’s California crimes of writing 
UNLAWFUL SALES CONTRACTS with me on August 
27, 1986 and violating California BLUE SKY laws in 
California being a crime of Painewebber that I discovered as 


a possibility on April 12, 1990. 


On Nov. 20, 1991 Painewebber told the NASD 
arbitraton that PaineWebber Inc. wanted their California 
crimes filed with NASD arbitration claim 91 00986 that 
were scheduled for hearing with the NASD arbitration on 
Dec. 17 and 18, 1991 were PWI crimes that PWI wanted 
heard in California state court KNOWING that California 


Se 


10a 


laws mandated arbitration for all of PWI's California crimes 
because of Painewebber’s arbitration clause in the PWI 
opening account agreement contract. 


On Nov. 21, 1991 PaineWebber Inc. Legal 
Department who knew the California laws mandating 
arbitration for all of PWI’s California crimes being in 
CRIMINAL CONTEMPT of court in Kern County Superior 
Court, Bakersfield, California unlawfully set to motion 
PWI’s March 1, 1991 discovery day California crime of 
breach of a corporate obligation contract crime filed with 
NASD arbitration 91 00986 until Dec. 9, 1991 unlawfully 
set to motion by PWI legal department in California on 
November 21, 1991. 


Painewebber Inc. on Nov. 21, 1991 unlawfully set 
to motion all the California crimes of Painewebber Inc. 
filed with NASD arbitration 91 00986 that were scheduled 
for hearing with the NASD arbitration on December 17 and 
18, 1991 to unlawfully claim res judicata, have me 
convicted of being a vexatious litigant and sanctioned to 
pay the criminal Painewebber Inc. BIG money and corrupt 
the process the process of law for the next six years. 


Claim CV F 93 5370 rec. was legally filed on June 
8, 1993 because Painewebber Inc. unlawfully had me 
convicted of being a vexatious litigant and sanctioned to 
pay PWI big money and this claim is not RES JUDICATA 
to any claim any where, the claim was filed in Federal Court 
on June 8, 1993 because PaineWebber Inc. is a very vicious 
criminal who needs to be severely prosecuted by everyone; 
the decision of Ninth Circuit Appellate Court for the 
September 1, 1992 discovery day of Federal Eastern 
District Court CIVIL RIGHTS VIOLATIONS claim CV 93 
5370 REC. as being res judicata to CV F 90 450 REC. was 
affirmed with Ninth Circuit Appellate court claim 93 16337 
submitted on June 21, 1993. . 


cal 


lla 
Appendix C -- 
UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT 
JUANITA CHILDS, ) No. 93 16337 
Plaintiff-Appellant ) 
v. ) 
PAINEWEBBER INCORPORATE, ) 
Defendant-Appellee ) 


ORDER FILED OCT. 17, 1994 


For CIVIL RIGHTS claim CV F 93 5370 REC. 
filed June 8, 1993 with U. S. East. District Court of 
California, Chief Justice Robert E. Coyle presiding. 


Before: Tang, Pregerson, and T. G. Nelson, Circuit Judges. 


“The Panel has voted to deny appellant’s petition for 
rehearing and to reject the suggestion for rehearing en banc. 


“The full court has been advised of the suggestion for 
rehearing en banc and no active judge has requested a vote 
on whether to rehear the matter enbanc.” 


On September 12, 1994 I had written to ALL the 
appellate courts where PaineWebber’s crimes are filed and 
requested from the courts for the RIGHT FOR WRIT OF 
CERTIORARI a fact known to the judges being the reason 
the rehearing was denied by the judges of the United States 
Ninth Appellate on October 17, 1994. 


“The statute of limitations begins to run when the plaintiff 
has actual knowledge of the fraud or knowledge of facts 
sufficient to put a reasonable person on notice.” 


Appendix D -- 


FIFTH DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF 
CALIFORNIA COURT OF APPEALS 

JUANITA CHILDS, ) No. FO 18582 
Plaintiff-Appellant ) 

v. ) 
PAINEWEBBER INCORPORATE, _ ) 
Defendant-Appellee ) 


FROM: Kem County Superior Court 
Judge Robert T. Baca 


Before: Fifth Appellate Court Juges, Buckley, Harris & 
Martin; Judge Martin acting as the presiding judge. 


OPINION: 


The Opinion os dated Oct. 27, 1994 andis 27 
pages long and suitable for publishing. 


Disposition 


“That part of the order sustaining demurrer without 
leave to amend which awards sanctions to defendant is 
reversed and remanded to the tral court to either (1) enter a 
new sanctions order according with the Code of Civil 
Procedure section 128.5, subdivision (c) or in the 
alternative, (2) vacate the imposition of sanctions.” 


“The trial court’s order determining vexacious 
litigation and awarding sanctions is reversed and remanded 
to the trial court for further proceedings and hearing in 
accordance with the findings and conclusions expressed 
herein.” 

“Eash side to bear it’s own costs of appeal” 


13 a 


PaineWebber Inc. NEAVER FILED ANY APPEAL 
to the California Fifth Appellate Court’s October 27, 1994 
OPINION that is 27 pages long and suitable for publishing, 
Painewebber Inc. has had MORE than ampel time to appeal 
the October 27, 1994 California Fifth Appellate Court 
ruling but they have neaver ever filed anything, infact 
NOBODY of the PaineWebber Inc. legal department 
lawyers assigned to my very alive and neaver ever hear/d 
California legally filed CLAIMS against the criminal 
PaineWebber appeared in PERSON at the Kern County 
District Court hearing for this subject and the FACT that 
PaineWebber Inc. had been in criminal contempt of court in 
Kern County on November 21, 1991 when PaineWebber 
unlawfully set to motion PaineWebber’s California crimes 
filed with NASD arbitration claim 91 00986 that the NASD 
had scheduled for hearing on Dec. 17 & 18, 1991, being 
vile PaineWebber crimes of the state of California that 
Painewebber told the NASD arbitration 91 00986 on Nov. 
20, 1991 were CRIMES that Painewebber wanted heard in 
California State Court being ALIVE PWI crimes unlawfully 
set to motion by Painewebber in California state court on 
Nov. 21, 1991 inorder to unlawfully claim “res judicata”. 


On November 21, 1991 PaineWebber Inc. being in 
CRIMINAL CONTEMPT OF COURT in Ker county 
Superior court, Bakersfield, California unlawfully set to 
motion VERY ALIVE NASD 91 00986 FILED California 
crimes of criminal PaineWebber that were SCHEDULED 
FOR HEARING with NASD 91 00986 on Dec. 17 and 18, 
1991 inorder to CORUPT THE PROCESS OF LAW in the 
state of California for the NEXT six (6) YEARS and cost 
me, the state of California and the Federal Government a 
TON of money unecessarily, PaineWebber Inc. is using the 
FEDERAL ARBITRATION ACT for CRIMES and 
violating civil rights laws inorder that their VICTIMS are 
deprived of their legal and civil nights. 


Appendix E- 
UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 


FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT 
JUANITA CHILDS, ) No. 96 16169 
Plaintiff-Appellant ) 
v. ) Filed 2/20/97 
PAINEWEBBER INCORPORATE, |) 
Defendant-Appellee ) 


From: U.S. East. Dist of Califomia SECURITIES FRAUD 
July 17, 1990 filed CV F 90 450 REC. 


United State Ninth Appellate Court MEMORANDUM 
Submitted February 18, 1997 


2ND U. S. NINTH APPELLATE COURT 
MEMORANDUM for FEDERAL SECURITIES FRAUD 
claim CV F 90 450 REC. 


Before: Alarc6n, Canby, and Tashima, Circuit Judges. 


“This court may not review the merits 
but must ask only weather the gnevience 
is governed by the contract and weather 
the parties agreed to arbitrate the dispute.” 


NO AGREEMENT WAS EVER MADE FOR 
ARBITRATING ANY ACT WHICH IS AN ACT OF 
CRIMES BY ME, Juanita W Childs, Pro Per. 


“an award will not be set a side unless 

it manifests a complete disregard for the 

law. See interpretations of the laws.” A G. Edward 
& Sons, Inc. v. McCollough, 967 F.2d 1401, 1402 
(9th Cir. 1992) (per curiam)” 


The Ninth Appellate court for CV F 90 450 REC. on Nov. 
1, 1993 in Ninth Appellate court Claim 92 16894 
REVERSED and REMANDED PaineWebber’s crimes of 
federal securities FRAUD of October 1989 on pages 28 & 
29 of CV F 90 450 REC. also being filed with NASD 
arbitration claim 91 00986 on pages 107 & 108 and 
KNOWN to the three (3) NASD arbitrators who 
deliberately DEFRAUDED ME on Dec. 9, 1991 when the 
three NASD arbitrators who KNEW my claim was very 
alive CRUELLY dismissed NASD arbitration claim 91 
00986 AS BEING “STALE” for the very very alive 
FEDERAL SECURITIES FRAUD crimes of criminal 
Painewebber and all the other many many many very very 
very alive California & federal crimes filed with NASD 
arbitration claim in favor of CRIMINAL and VIOLATOR 
of our laws Painewebber Inc. 


The Ninth Appellate Judges reversed and remanded 
Painewebber’s crimes-of federal securities FRAUD crimes 
filed with CV F 90 450 REC. back to the United States 
District Court for FURTHER proceedings that wer 
remanded back to the NASD arbitration for validation of 
the legality of the statute of limitations ONLY by the 
Federal District court on Dec. 5, 1994. 


THE ORDER CONTRACT FOR NASD 95 00357 was 
only for the NASD ARBITRATOR to VALIDATE the 
legality of the STATUTE of LIMITATIONS for only PWI's 
FEDERAL SECURITIES CRIMES REMANDED BACK 
to the District Court by theNinth Circuit Appellate Court in 
their MEMORANDUM for CV F 90 450 REC. submitted 
Nov. 1, 1993 before Judges Schroder, D. W. Nelson and 
Thompson, circuit judges of the United States Ninth 
Appellate Court who ruled PWI violated federal securities 
laws with me and that they were alive and filed with July 
17, 1990 filed LEGALLY as alive federal securities fraud 
crimes with the Federal Court fraudulently dismissed. 

NO. “40” COURT RECORD OF CV F 90 450 REC. 


16a 


The Ninth Circuit Appellate Court ruled CV F 90 
450 REC. according to the applicable California laws for 
fraud stating “ In this circuit the limitations period for 
claims arising under the antifraud provision of the federal 
securities laws in California begins to run at the same tume 
as does the California period for fraud.” 


Robuck v. Dean Witter & Co... 649 F. 2d 641, 644 
(1980). 


The Ninth Circuit Appellate Court states on page 3 
“alleged violations of section 10 () are subject to the three- 
year statutation for fraud” California Civil Code of 
Procedure Section 338 (4). 


Davis _v. Birr, Wilson & Co. 
839 £2d 1369, 1369-70 (9th Circuit 1988). 


“The statute of limitations begins to run when the plaintiff 
has actual knowledge of the fraud or knowledge of facts 


sufficient to put a reasonable person on notice.” 


MY discovery day of LEARNING PaineWebber 
Inc. is a CRIMINAL is April 12, 1990 and it is based upon 
the discovery that Painewebber possibly had violated our 
laws governing proper registration of securities and that 
PaineWebber wrote UNLAWFUL sales contracts with me. 


Painewebber did violate our BLUE SKY LAWS 
confirmed as a facts on October 30, 1990 when I purchased 
the undeniable proof that PWI had violated the registration 
laws soliciting & selling the Mesa Pf. “a” limited 
partnership securities prior to proper registration on August 
27, 1986 to me in violation with proper registration laws 
MANDATED by the Securities & Exchange Commission. 


Appendix F - 
ORDER filed April 10, 1997 


UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS 

FOR THE NINTH CIRCUIT 
JUANITA CHILDS, ) No. 96 16169 
Plaintiff-Appellant ) 
V. ) 
PAINEWEBBER INCORPORATE, _) 
Defendant-Appellee ) 


United States Eastern District court of California 
FEDERAL SECURITIES FRAUD # CV F 90 450 REC. 
filed July 17. 1990 against PaineWebber Incorporate. 


Appeal from the U. S. District Court for the Eastern District 
of California, Robert E. Coyle, Chief Judge, Presiding 


ORDER 
Filed April 10, 1997 


Before: Circuit Judges Alarcon, Canby and Tashima. 


Petition for rehearing denied. 


