University  of  California  •  Berkley 


University  of  California  Bancroft  Library/Berkeley 

Regional  Oral  History  Office 


Jean  Carter  Witter 

THE  UNIVERSITY,  THE  COMMUNITY,  AND  THE  LIFEBLOOD  OF  BUSINESS 


An  Interview  Conducted  by 
Harriet  Nathan 


Berkeley 


Jean  Carter  Witter  -  1967 


Gabriel  Moulin  Photographer 


nssL 


niiuoM 


All  uses  of  this  manuscript  are  covered  by  a  legal  agree 
ment  between  the  Regents  of  the  University  of  California  and 
Jean  Carter  Witter,  dated  23  December  1968.   The  manuscript  is 
thereby  made  available  for  research  purposes.   All  literary 
rights  in  the  manuscript,  including  the  right  to  publish,  are 
reserved  to  The  Bancroft  Library  of  the  University  of  California 
at  Berkeley.   No  part  of  the  manuscript  may  be  quoted  for  publication 
without  the  written  permission  of  the  Director  of  The  Bancroft 
Library  of  the  University  of  California  at  Berkeley. 

Requests  for  permission  to  quote  for  publication  should 
be  addressed  to  the  Regional  Oral  History  Office,  486  Library, 
and  should  include  identification  of  the  specific  passages  to 
be  quoted,  anticipated  use  of  the  passages,  and  identification 
of  the  user.   The  legal  agreement  with  Jean  C.  Witter  requires 
that  he  be  notified  of  the  request  and  allowed  thirty  days 
in  which  to  respond. 


University  History  Series 

PREFACE 

Under  a  grant  from  the  University  of  California  Alumni 
Foundation,  the  Regional  Oral  History  Office  has  been  conducting 
a  series  of  interviews  with  persons  who  have  made  a  significant 
contribution  to  the  development  of  the  University  of  California 
at  Berkeley.   A  list  of  University  History  interviews  follows, 
including  an  earlier  group  which  had  been  conducted  in  cooperation 
with  the  Centennial  History  Project,  directed  by  Professor  Walton 
E.  Bean.   The  Alumni  Foundation  grant  made  it  possible  to  continue 
this  University-centered  series,  of  which  this  manuscript  is  a 
part. 

The  University  History  interviews  have  benefited  greatly 
from  the  expert  advice  and  assistance  of  Richard  E.  Erickson, 
Executive  Manager  of  the  Alumni  Association;  Arthur  M.  Arlett, 
Intercollegiate  Athletic  Coordinator  for  Alumni  and  Public 
Relations;  and  Verne  A.  Stadtman,  Centennial  Editor. 

The  Regional  Oral  History  Office  was  established  to  tape 
record  autobiographical  interviews  with  persons  prominent  in 
recent  California  history.   The  Office  is  under  the  administrative 
supervision  of  the  Director  of  the  Bancroft  Library. 


Willa  Baum 

Head,    Regional   Oral    History  Office 


15  July  1968 

Regional  Oral  History  Office 
Room  486  The  Bancroft  Library 
University  of  California 
Berkeley,  California 


ii 


Interviews  in  the  University  History  Series  which  have  been 
completed  by  the  Regional  Oral  History  Office.   These  are  listed 
in  order  of  completion. 


Shields,  Peter  J, 
Woods,  Baldwin  M, 
Stevens,  Frank  C, 


OLD  SERIES 
Reminiscences . 


1954 


University  of  California  Extension.   1957 

Forty  Years  in  the  Office  of  the  President, 
University  o?~Calif ornla,  T9~05- 197+5'i 1959 


Birge,  Raymond  Thayer  Raymond  Thayer  Birge,  Physicist .   I960 
Chaney,  Ralph  Works 


Porter,  Robert  Langley 
Treadway,  VJalter 

Waring,  Henry  C. 
Neuhaus,  Eugen 


Ralph  V.'orks  Chaney,  Ph.D.,  Paleobotanist, 
Conservationist .   19'6~0~ 


Robert  Langley  Porter,  Physician,  Teacher, 
and  Guardian  of  the  Public  HealTh. 19bO 

Correspondence  and  Papers  on  Langley 
Porter  Clinic.   ("Bound  into  Langley  Porter 
interview. ) 

Henry  C_.  Waring  on  University  Extension.   I960 

Reminiscences;   Bay  Area  Art  and  the 
University  of  California  Art  Department .   1961 


Sproul,  Ida  Wittschen  Duty,  Devotion  and  Delight  in  the  President 's_ 

House,  University  of  California.   1961 


Hutchison,  Claude  B. 
Merrltt,  Ralph  P. 
Mitchell,  Lucy  Sprague 
Neylan,  John  Francis 
Richardson,  Leon  J. 


The  College  of  Agriculture,  University  of 
California,  1^22-195^   1962 


After  Me  Cometh  a_  Builder,  the  Recollections 
of  RalpH  Palmer  Merritt.       ' 


Pioneering  iri  Education.   1962 

Politics,  Law,  and  the  University  of  California. 
1962 

Berkeley  Culture,  University  p_f  California 
Highlights,  and  University  Extension,  1B92"-1960. 


Lessing,  Ferdinand  D.   Early  Years.   1963 
Olney,  Mary  McLean 


Oakland,  Berkeley,  and  the  University  of 
California,  mtiO-l8c,-5 .  ~T9"6T~ 


ill 

Pepper,  Stephen  C.     Art  and  Philosophy  ajb  the  University  of 

CaTirornia,  1919  to  19o|T  19&3 

Wurster,  William  Wilson 

College  of  Environmental  Design,  University 
of  Calffornia,  Campus  Planning,  and 
Architectural  Practice" 


Lenzen,  Victor  F.      Physics  and  Philosophy.   1965 

Meyer,  Karl  F.         Medical  Research  and  Public  Health.   In  process, 

NEW  SERIES 

Interviews  fully  or  partially  funded  by  the  University  of 
California  Alumni  Foundation. 

Cross,  Ira  Brown       Portrait  of  an  Economics  Professor.   196? 

Cruess,  William  V.     A  Half  Century  in  Food  and  Wine  Technology. 

T9FT 

*  , 

Davidson,  Mary  Blossom 

The  Dean  of  Women  and  the  Importance  of 
Students.   19oT~ 

Hamilton,  Brutus       Student  Athletics  and  the  Voluntary  Discipline. 

1967 

Wessels,  Glenn  A.      Education  of  an  Artist.   196? 

Witter,  Jean  C.        The  University,  the  Community  and  the 

LiTeblood  of  Business"! 


Blaisdell,  Allen  C.    Foreign  Students  and  the  Berkeley  Inter 

national  House,          ~ 


Evans,  Clinton  W.      California  Athlete,  Coach,  Administrator, 

Ambassador.   1966 

Ebright,  Carroll  "Ky"   California  Varsity  and  Olympics  Crew 

Coach.      T9~6B~~ 

Hays,  William  Charles   Order,  Taste,  and  Grace  in  Architecture. 


Lehman,  Benjamin  H.    Recollections  and  Reminiscences  of  Life 

in  the  Bay  Area  from  1920  Onward.   l(j(jti 

Underhill,  Robert  M.   University  of  California  Lands,  Finances, 

and  Investnien~ts~I      T~ 


iv 

Corley,  James  V.         Serving  the  University  in  Sacramento . 

In  process. 

Dennes,  William  R.       Philosophy  and  the  University  Since 

1915«   In  process. 

Donnelly,  Ruth          On  housing  for  students.   In  process. 

Johnston,  Marguerite  Kulp 

Student  Housing,  Welfare,  and  the  ASUC 
In  process. 

Mixer,  Joseph  R.         On  housing  for  students.   In  process. 

Towle,  Katherine  A.      On  the  Office  of  the  Dean  of  Students. 

In  process. 


INTRODUCTION 

Jean  Carter  Witter  '16  is  an  alumnus  of  the  University  of 
California  at  Berkeley  who  has  seen  his  children  and  grand 
children  choose  to  attend  the  same  University  and  the  same 
campus  that  he  and  his  generation  of  Witters  have  chosen.   Such 
loyalty  gratifies  him,  because  the  University  has  been  a  kind 
of  home  base  in  his  long  and  active  life.   He  has  been  in  turn 
student,  graduate,  member  of  a  departmental  advisory  committee, 
President  of  the  Alumni  Association  and  ex-officio  Regent,  and 
was  honored  as  a  University  Fellow  during  the  Centennial  celebration. 

He  served  as  Alumni  President  and  Regent  during  the  crucial 
year  1945-1946,  when  the  University's  major  dormitory  building 
program  was  launched,  after  nearly  40  years  of  effort  by  student 
and  alumni  groups,  administrators,  and  faculty  members.   When 
asked  about  his  role  in  winning  regental  approval  and  public 
funds  for  dormitories,  Mr.  Witter  said  only,  "A  lot  of  people 
thought  it  was  the  right  thing  to  do."  But  both  Provost  Monroe 
Deutsch  and  Business  Manager  William  Norton  have  cited  his 
leadership  and  effectiveness  in  the  fight  to  obtain  and  safe 
guard  state  appropriations  and  backing  for  the  dormitories.   Mr. 
Norton  has  observed  that  much  of  the  success  of  the  dormitory 
fight  rested  on  Mr.  Witter's  faith  in  the  program  and  his  alertness 
in  pushing  the  Smyth-Fernwald  project  shortly  after  V-J  day. 

The  zest  he  has  shown  for  University  interests  appears 
again  in  other  community  activities,  and  to  an  even  greater  degree 
in  his  work  in  investment  banking.   One  of  the  founders  of  Dean 


vi 

Witter  &  Co,  he  continues  to  appear  regularly  at  his  office  on 
Montgomery  Street  where  the  oral  history  interviews  took  place. 
Alert  and  cordial,  he  would  rise  from  the  desk  in  his  panelled 
office  and  cross  the  carpet  to  greet  visitors  with  a  quick, 
strong  handshake. 

While  the  interviews  were  underway,  he  directed  that  most 
telephone  calls  be  diverted,  with  the  exception  of  a  few 
transcontinental  calls.   For  these,  the  tape  recorder  was  shut 
off  while  Mr.  Witter  engaged  in  rapid-fire  calculations,  with 
prices  and  rates  quoted  unhesitatingly,  and  without  prompting  or 
notes  of  any  kind.   He  discussed  multi-million  dollar  enterprises 
with  ease  and  dispatch,  and  also  displayed  another  aspect  of  his 
business  acumen.  With  a  side-long  glance  and  smile  he  said 
to  the  interviewer,  "I  won't  be  satisfied  until  we  have  your 
name  among  our  investment  accounts,"  and  placed  it  on  the  pro 
motional  mailing  list.   As  a  business  associate  said  of  him, 
"He's  the  hottest  and  best  salesman  on  Montgomery  Street." 

He  responded  readily  to  questions,  some  dealing  with  con 
troversial  topics  such  as  conservation  of  redwoods  and  the  Bay, 
poverty  programs,  and  student  unrest  at  his  favorite  campus. 
After  a  crisp  statement  of  his  views,  he  would  say,  "Now,  that's 
my  idea.  What  do  you  think?"   He  would  then  settle  back  and 
look  so  receptive  that  the  temptation  to  answer  at  length  was 
hard  to  resist. 

Like  many  other  Californians,  he  was  born  outside  the  state, 
Ln  Wisconsin;  he  has  ties  to  and  has  worked  in  various  parts 
of  California;  he  has  hiked  and  ridden  all  over  the  Yosemite 


vii 

Valley  and  much  of  the  mountainous  area  that  surrounds  it;  and 
he  continues  to  care  about  and  show  concern  for  the  University 
and  its  future.   He  was  an  early  participant  in  the  financial 
growth  of  the  west,  and  still  regards  the  whole  United  States 
as  his  field  of  opportunity.   He  looks  toward  the  future  for 
the  right  locations  for  his  firm's  further  expansion  and  develop 
ment.   But  for  himself  he  says,  "I'm  right  where  I  want  to  be. 
This  is  the  place  for  me." 


Harriet  Nathan 
Interviewer 


17  December  1968 
Regional  Oral  History  Office 
486  The  Bancroft  Library 
University  of  California 
Berkeley,  California 


viii 

INTERVIEW  HISTORY 

Jean  Carter  Witter  (1892  --   ),  was  interviewed  by  the  Regional 
Oral  History  Office  as  a  part  of  a  series  on  University  History. 

Interviewer:     Harriet  Nathan,  Interviewer-Editor,  Regional 

Oral  History  Office,  University  of  California, 
Berkeley 

Time  and  Setting  of  Interviews:   May  11,  May  18,  June  1,  and 

June  8,  1967. 

The  interviews  took  place  in  Mr.  Witter 's  office 
on  the  second  floor  of  the  building  that  houses 
the  administration  office  of  Dean  Witter  &• 
Co.,  at  45  Montgomery  Street  in  San  Francisco. 

Conversations  began  at  9:30  a.m.  and  continued 
until  shortly  before  noon.   His  secretary, 
Mrs.  Nora  Maakestad,  would  sit  in  occasionally 
and  supply  documents  and  files  needed  for  reference 

An  informal  discussion  in  Mr.  Witter 's  office 
on  April  7  formed  the  basis  for  a  suggested 
topic  outline,  which  he  received  tv.'o  weeks 
later.   During  the  interviews,  questions  served 
primarily  to  introduce  topics.   Mr.  Witter  would 
then  speak  freely,  with  only  occasional  reference 
to  the  outline. 

Editing:         The  material  transcribed  from  the  tapes  was 

edited  lightly,  rearranged  for  continuity,  and 
organized  under  chapter  and  topic  headings, 
by  the  editor.  When  the  text  was  submitted  to 
him,  Mr.  Witter  supplemented  the  materials  and 
made  suggestions  for  a  somewhat  more  rigorous 
editing.   He  approved  the  final  draft  in  the 
late  summer  of  1968.  The  manuscript  was  indexed 
by  Catherine  Harroun  of  the  Oral  History  Office. 


Harriet  Nathan 


ix 

CONTENTS 

PREFACE   i 

INTRODUCTION   v 

INTERVIEW  HISTORY   viii 

HUMBIRD,  WISCONSIN,  TO  OAKLAND,  CALIFORNIA   ...  1 

NO  OTHER  IDEA  THAN  THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA      6 
The  V.'itter  Family  and  the 

U.C.  Tradition   7 

Academic  Interests   

145  Pound  Basketball  and  Campus  Politics • 
Campus  Buildings  1912-1916   10 

A  SUMMER  RANGER  IN  YOSEMITE   12 

Train  and  Stagecoach   

A  Waiter  at  Camp  Curry   15 

YOSEMITE  PARK  AND  CURRY  COMPANY   16 

LESLIE  SALT  AND  REDWOOD  SHORES   19 

I.  MAGNIN,  BULLOCKS,  AND  FEDERATED 

DEPARTMENT  STORES   22 

MILITARY  SERVICE,  MARRIAGE,  AND 

THE  FRENCH  LANGUAGE   

Christmas  Wedding  with  Catharine  Maurer  . .    24 
Town  Mayor  for  the  Regiment   26 

INVESTMENT  BANKING   29 

Floods  in  the  San  Joaquin   29 

Ely th,  Witter  &  Co . ,  1914   30 

Forming  Dean  Witter  &  Co.,  1924   35 

Partnership  or  Corporation?   36 

Profit-Sharing  Plan  for  Employees   36 

Selecting  Partners   37 

Salesman-Client  Relationship   

Speculation  or  Investment   39 

The  Commodity  Market   40 

Fluctuation   

Brokerage  and  Underwriting   43 

Peace  as  a  Bullish  Factor   44 

A  Bond  House  Adds  Brokerage   45 

Grov;th  of  the  Firm   

Some  Overseas  Relationships   

Data  Processing  and  Communications   49 

Promising  Territory  for  Expansion   


Organizational  Structure   52 

Recruiting  and  Training  54 

ALUMNI  COUNCIL  AND  THE  BOARD  OP  REGENTS   56 

Campus  Residence  Halls   57 

Regents  Pro  and  Con   58 

The  Student  Union  and  Alumni  House   60 

Southern  Regents  and  Student  Housing   60 

Milberry  Union,  San  Francisco   62 

Funds  for  Residence  Halls   64 

An  Option  on  the  Wilson  Property   66 

A  Share  of  the  Credit   6? 

Alumni  Association  Activities  and  Views   . .  68 

U.C.  PRESIDENTS  AND  CHANCELLORS   69 

Chancellor  Heyns 69 

President  Wheeler   70 

President  Barrows   70 

President  Kerr   70 

EDUCATIONAL  AND  CIVIC  INTERESTS   72 

Advisory  Council,  U.  C.  Graduate 

School  of  Business  Administration  72 

The  Jean  C.  Witter,  Jr.  Liberty 

Scholarship  Fund   73 

Piedmont  Schools   74 

Mills  College   77 

Fund-Raising   78 

United  Bay  Area  Crusade  and 

The  Old  Community  Chest   79 

Problems  of  Poverty   

Investment  Bankers  Association  of  America  83 

Community  Projects   85 

The  Blyth-Zellerbach  Committee   85 

PARTIAL  INDEX   88 

APPENDIX 

"Investment  Banking"  by  Jean  C.  Witter  ' 16 

California  Monthly,  December  1945  10-11  91 

Cover  and  one  page,  Membership  of  the  Order  of 

the  Golden  Bear  1931  93 

The  Regents  of  the  University,  1944-1945  (card)  94 

The  Regents  of  the  University,  1945-1946  (card)  95 


MEMORABILIA  on  file  in  the  Bancroft  Library 

Winged  Helmet  Society,  Fortieth  Annual  Spring 
Initiation  and  Banquet  April  1,  1940  (program) 

Membership  of  the  Order  of  the  Golden  Bear  1931 
(booklet) 

Yosemite  Nature  Notes  Vol.  XXXI  No.  4,  April  1952 
' 16  Reunion  Blast,  November  1936  (newsprint  sheet) 
23th  Reunion,  November  1941  (newsprint  sheet) 


HUMBIRD,  WISCONSIN,  TO  OAKLAND,  CALIFORNIA 


Nathan:     Mr.  Witter,  you  have  had  a  long  and  active  career 

concerned  with  many  aspects  of  California's  develop 
ment:  investment  banking  and  business  affairs, 
the  University  of  California's  growth,  and  the 
development  of  residence  halls  there,  the  public 
school  system  in  Piedmont,  and  many  civic  programs. 
Perhaps  before  we  start  to  talk  about  these  major 
activities  of  your  life,  we  might  turn  back  to  the 
beginning.   First  of  all,  where  were  you  born? 

Witter:     I  was  born  in  Humbird,  Wisconsin,  in  1892.   Humbird 
was  and  still  is  a  very  small  town.   I  am  sure  you 
have  never  heard  of  it;  in  fact,  you  might  have 
difficulty  finding  it  on  the  map.  The  parents  of 
my  mother,  Mary  Ann  Carter,  lived  in  Humbird.   Her 
father  was  Edwin  Carter;  her  mother  was  Esther  Winship 
Carter. 

My  father  grew  up  in  Wisconsin  Rapids,  formerly 
called  Grand  Rapids,  Wisconsin.   He  was  the  son  of 
a  country  doctor,  George  Franklin  Witter.   His  mother 
was  Frances  Louise  Phelps  Witter.   Both  his  parents 
were  born  in  New  York  State.   My  father,  George 
Franklin,  Jr.,  had  an  older  brother,  Willis;  both 
were  University  of  Wisconsin  graduates  in  law. 
They  had  a  sister  Mary  who  later  became  the  wife 
of  Mr.  W.  D.  Connor  of  Marshfield,  Wisconsin. 
The  Connors  were  longtime  residents  of  Marshfield, 
where  various  members  of  the  family  have  been 
interested  in  politics,  civic  affairs,  and  the  lumber 
business.   Some  of  the  third  generation  (they  would 
be  my  cousins)  are  still  there.   Andrew,  the  son 
of  one  of  my  cousins,  is  at  present  the  Mayor  of 
Marshfield.   The  son  of  another  cousin  is  Melvin 
Laird,  now  Congressman  from  Wisconsin.   At  the  time 
of  the  last  presidential  election  [1964],  he  was 
Chairman  of  the  Platform  Committee  for  the  Republican 
convention. 

Very  early  in  1890,  my  father  and  his  brother 
Willis  Guy  decided  to  move  to  California  and  in 
the  following  year,  1891,  my  Uncle  Willis  moved  his 
family  west.   A  year  later,  my  father,  who  by  that 
time  was  married  to  Mary  Ann  Carter  and  had  a  son 
(that  son  being  myself,  born  January  3,  189^), 
also  moved  his  family  to  California. 

Nathan:     Do  you  have  brothers  and  sisters? 


2. 


Witter:     I  have  four  brothers  and  a  sister.   A  small  brother, 
George,  died  when  he  was  a  baby.  We  were  living 
in  Paso  Robles  at  that  time.   The  three  brothers 
are  Edwin,  Phelps  and  Wendell.   My  sister,  Esther, 
is  Mrs.  Frederick  Janney,  who  lives  in  Portland, 
Oregon . 

Nathan:     How  does  it  happen  that  your  name  is  spelled  Jean? 

Witter:     Jean,  of  course,  is  French  for  John.   I  really  never 
have  liked  my  name.  When  I  was  young,  I  was  teased 
because  of  my  sissy  name  and  had  many  fist  fights. 
When  I  asked  my  father  about  my  name,  he  answered 
that  prior  to  my  birth,  he  had  been  reading  Victor 
Hugo's  Les  Miserables.   He  admired  the  character 
Jean  Valjean  so  much  that  I  was  named  Jean. 

Nathan:     It  makes  an  interesting  and  handsome  name  on  the  door. 
Perhaps  he  could  foresee  that. 

Witter:     It  really  has  been  unfortunate  that  I  was  named  Jean 
[pronounced  Gene]  because  I  have  been  in  business 
with  my  cousin,  Dean  Witter,  these  many  years, 
and  there  has  been  confusion  because  of  the  similarity 
in  the  sound  of  the  names . 

Nathan:  Back  in  1892  when  your  family  came  to  California, 
you  were  Just  an  infant.  Does  that  mean  that  you 
grew  up  in  California  rather  than  Wisconsin? 

Witter:     Yes,  I  grew  up  in  California.   Our  first  home  was 
in  Paso  Robles,  where  Father  practiced  law  from 
1892  to  1900.  Due  to  a  series  of  dry  years,  with 
rainfall  far  below  normal,  the  farmers  had  a  very 
hard  time  and  realized  little  or  no  money  on  their 
crops.   This  naturally  affected  my  father's  law 
practice.  If  he  did  do  a  piece  of  business,  he 
would  be  unable  to  collect  payment  for  his  services, 
except  in  the  form  of  livestock.  After  several 
unprofitable  years,  Father  decided  in  1900  to  leave 
Paso  Robles,  and  we  moved  to  Oakland.   I  have  lived 
on  the  east  side  of  the  Bay  ever  since.  My  father 
practiced  law  in  San  Francisco  until  the  earthquake 
and  fire  and  then  practiced  in  Oakland.  When  I 
went  to  college,  our  home  was  on  Regent  Street  near 
Alcatraz  Avenue  in  Oakland,  Just  over  the  line 
from  Berkeley. 

Nathan:     Do  you  recall  the  city  of  San  Francisco  around  the 
time  of  the  earthquake  and  fire?  Were  you  old 
enough  to  remember  it? 


3. 


Witter:     Yes,  I  was  old  enough  to  remember;  I  was  14  at 

the  time  of  the  earthquake  and  fire.   Occasionally 
my  father  had  taken  me  to  San  Francisco.   I  had 
looked  out  at  the  tall  buildings  from  his  office, 
which  was  in  the  Call  Building  at  Third  and  Market. 
After  the  fire,  I  saw  the  ruins  that  extended  all 
the  way  out  to  Van  Ness  Avenue. 

Nathan:     Was  there  a  big  influx  of  San  Francisco  people 
coming  across  to  the  East  Bay? 

Witter:     Yes,  a  great  many  people  crossed  the  Bay.   Some 

found  shelter  in  the  homes  of  friends  or  sympathetic, 
warm-hearted  people.   Others  camped  out  in  areas 
designated  for  that  purpose.   Central  kitchens  were 
set  up  to  feed  the  hungry. 

Nathan:     Did  any  of  the  people  from  San  Francisco  come  into 
your  neighborhood? 

Witter:     No.  We  lived  up  in  the  hills  on  llth  Avenue  near 
Buena  Vista  Park,  and  it  was  too  far  away  for  them 
to  reach  conveniently. 

Nathan:     Since  your  family  lived  in  Oakland,  did  you  go  to 
school  there? 

Witter:     Yes.   Four  of  us  graduated  from  Oakland  High  School, 
and  my  brother,  Wendell,  graduated  from  Berkeley 
High  School. 

Nathan:     Since  you  were  living  in  Oakland,  how  did  it  happen 
that  Wendell  was  graduated  from  Berkeley  High 
School? 

Witter:     My  parents'  home  was  on  Regent  Street,  two  houses 
from  the  Oakland-Berkeley  boundary,  as  I  mentioned 
earlier.   For  this  reason,  Berkeley  High  School 
accepted  my  brother  Wendell. 

Nathan:     Was  it  during  your  high  school  years  that  you  began 
thinking  about  the  University  of  California? 

Witter:     My  cousin,  Dean  Witter,  about  five  years  my  senior, 
was  the  first  one  to  go  to  the  University  of  Calif 
ornia.   Perhaps  I  might  not  have  gone  to  the  Univer 
sity  of  California,  if  it  had  not  been  for  the 
influence  of  Dean  Witter  and  his  mother,  Elizabeth. 
I  was  always  very  fond  of  my  aunt  Lizzie  and  res 
pected  her  Judgment.   She,  in  turn,  was  interested 


4. 


Witter:     in  me  and  my  welfare,  and  was  like  a  second  mother. 
Nathan:     In  what  way  did  Dean's  mother  influence  you? 

Witter:     By  being  my  friend  and  showing  her  interest  in  me. 
I  remember  when  I  was  at  Oakland  High  School,  I  was 
president  of  the  student  body.   She  came  to  my 
graduation  exercises,  and  urged  me  to  go  on  to 
college.   She  paid  my  fraternity  bills  during  my 
four  years  at  Berkeley,  which  I  repaid  a  few  years 
after  graduation. 

Nathan:     What  was  her  full  name? 

Witter:  Mrs.  Willis  Guy  Witter;  Elizabeth,  but  affection 
ately  Aunt  Lizzie  to  me.  She  was  an  old  resident 
of  Berkeley,  having  lived  there  some  50  years. 

Nathan:     In  the  early  1900 's  there  must  have  been  many  bright 
young  men  who  did  not  go  to  college.   It  was  not 
automatically  considered  the  thing  to  do,  was  it? 

Witter:     I'm  sure  that  then  there  was  a  larger  percentage  of 
eligible  boys  and  girls  who  did  not  go  to  college. 
The  reverse  is  true  today.  There  is  a  terrific 
demand  for  college  graduates .   A  diploma  is  a  most 
important  asset. 

Nathan:     So  it  was  a  decision  you  had  to  make? 

Witter:     Yes,  but  during  my  first  years  at  high  school  I 

didn't  think  much  about  college.  The  interest  came 
later.   Not  until  my  senior  year  did  I  actually 
decide  that  I  would  go  to  the  University  of  Calif 
ornia.   Then,  for  the  rest  of  the  family,  going  to 
the  University  of  California  seemed  almost  automatic. 

Nathan:     Did  you  have  to  worry  about  grade  point  averages 

and  whether  there  would  be  room  for  you  at  California? 

Witter:     Yes,  I  think  you  had  to  have  a  B  average  to  get  into 
college.   I  didn't  have  a  B  in  French;  I  had  a  C. 
I  could  graduate  from  high  school,  but  I  couldn't 
get  into  college  unless  I  remedied  that  C.   I  spent 
one  summer  going  to  summer  school  at  Berkeley.   I 
took  a  mathematics  course  on  the  side,  and  I  took 
the  two  years  of  French  in  six  weeks.   That  was  a 
Job. 

I  had  a  teacher,  Mrs.  Greenleaf,  who,  I  believe, 


5. 

Witter:     taught  at  Berkeley  High  School  regularly,  but  taught 
at  the  University  during  summer  session.   She  was 
excellent.   I  successfully  passed  the  course  with 
a  B  by  devoting  all  my  time  to  it  and  really  working, 
I  had  no  problem  about  getting  into  college  then. 


6. 


NO  OTHER  IDEA  THAN  THE  UNIVERSITY  OF  CALIFORNIA 


Nathan:  Once  you  were  sure  you  could  get  into  college,  how 
did  you  decide  to  come  to  the  University  of  Calif-, 
ornia  at  Berkeley? 

Witter:     I  have  already  referred  to  my  cousin,  Dean  Witter, 
who  was  several  years  older  than  I.   He  had  gone 
to  the  University  of  California;  he  had  been  success 
ful  as  a  student  and  as  an  athlete;  he  had  done 
well  on  campus  and  I  thought  his  pattern  was  ex 
cellent.   He  became  a  Zete  at  college,  and  I  thought 
that  was  a  great  idea  and  followed  in  his  foot 
steps  .   Since  then,  there  have  been  a  good  number 
of  Witter  boys  and  Witter  girls  who  have  graduated 
from  the  University. 

I  entered  the  University  of  California  in  1912. 
My  sister  followed  me  there  a  year  later,  then  my 
three  brothers.   All  five  of  us  graduated.   Later, 
when  we,  in  turn,  had  children  of  college  age,  many 
of  them  decided  to  follow  in  their  fathers'  foot 
steps  . 

My  four  children  (three  sons  and  a  daughter)  all 
graduated  from  California,  as  did  my  brother  Ed's 
two  sons  and  my  brother  Phelps'  three  sons  and  a 
daughter. 

Nathan:     Have  any  members  of  your  family  defected  to  Stanford 
or  other  places? 

Witter:     My  brother  Wendell's  only  child,  a  daughter,  was 

a  Smith  graduate.   My  sister;  Esther's  two  daughters 
graduated  elsewhere --one  from  Scripps  and  one  from 
Vassar. 

Dean  Witter  had  two  sons  who  went  to  Yale  and  a 
daughter  who  went  to  Vassar.   She  spent  her  third 
year  at  Stanford.   John  Witter  had  two  daughters 
who  graduated  from  the  University  of  California 
and  two  sons  from  Stanford. 

Nathan:     Was  there  ever  much  question  in  your  mind  about 
where  you  wanted  to  go? 

Witter:     No,  I  had  no  other  idea  ever  than  to  go  to  the 
University  of  California. 


7. 


The  Witter  Family  and  the  U.C?.  Tradition 


Nathan:     Do  you  remember  the  occasion  when  Chet  Huntley  and 

NBC  television  were  doing  a  big  program  on  education 
in  California?   Huntley  spent  some  time  at  the 
University  of  California  and  decided  that  the 
Witter  family  was  an  integral  part  of  the  Univer 
sity.   Didn't  he  get  you  all  together  for  a  picture? 

Witter:     Yes,  I  was  there.   I  don't  know  just  how  the  idea 
of  a  picture  developed,  but  most  of  the  family 
cooperated  and  showed  up  except  for  those  who  lived 
too  far  away,  like  Chicago  and  Paris.   It  made  a 
sizeable  picture  anyway,  with  about  40  of  us  in  it. 
That  included  the  respective  wives  or  husbands  of 
the  Witter  graduates,  some  of  whom  were  also  grad 
uates  of  the  University,  but  not  all.   We  met 
in  December  of  1963*  and  the  program  was  shown  the 
following  March. 

Nathan:     So  you  had  two  full  generations  gathered  together. 

Witter:     And  now  I  have  a  grandson,  my  daughter's  son,  who 
is  a  freshman.   Next  year  he'll  be  a  sophomore 
at  Berkeley.   My  granddaughter,  this  boy's  sister, 
will  enter  next  year.   They  both  chose  to  go  to 
California. 

Nathan:     What  are  their  names? 

Witter:     John  Bates  and  Catharine  (Katy)  Bates. 

John  went  east  to  prep  school,  to  Lawrenceville, 
and  graduated  from  there.  After  having  four  years 
in  the  east,  he  was  eager  to  go  to  college  in  the 
west  and  chose  University  of  California  at  Berkeley 
and  was  accepted.  Katy  Bates  spent  her  four  years 
of  preparatory  school  at  Santa  Catalina,  a  very 
fine  girls'  school  located  near  Monterey.   After 
graduating,  the  plan  was  for  her  to  go  to  an  eastern 
school  for  a  couple  of  years  and  she  made  application 
to  several.   However,  sometime  during  her  senior 
year  at  Santa  Catalina  she  changed  her  mind  about 
going  east  and  made  application  to  the  University 
of  California  at  Berkeley.   Perhaps  having  her 
brother  there  influenced  her.   At  any  rate  she 
was  accepted  last  February  and  consequently  with 
drew  her  applications  from  the  eastern  schools 
without  waiting  to  hear  from  them.   It  pleases  me 


8. 


Witter:     to  have  them  enthusiastic  about  the  University  and 
to  have  the  family  relationship  with  it  continue. 


Academic  Interests 

Nathan:     Shall  we  turn  back,  now,  to  your  own  University 
days?  When  you  entered  in  1912,  did  you  choose 
Commerce  as  your  major  right  away?  Did  you  know 
what  kind  of  work  you  wanted  to  do  eventually? 

Witter:     No,  I  didn't  have  the  slightest  idea  of  what  type 
of  business  I  wanted  to  get  into.  In  fact,  I  did 
not  make  up  my  mind  until  after  I  graduated  from 
college.  When  I  was  a  high  school  boy,  at  one  time 
I  thought  I  might  like  to  be  an  engineer,  following 
in  the  footsteps  of  one  of  my  uncles.   However,  I 
must  have  given  up  that  idea  by  the  time  I  entered 
college,  for  I  took  a  Letters  and  Science  course 
and  later  transferred  to  Commerce. 

Nathan:     What  was  your  flair  in  college?  What  subjects 
came  to  you  most  easily,  and  which  did  you  like 
best? 

Witter:     I  always  did  well  in  mathematics,  and  satisfactorily 
in  most  courses.   The  only  field  I  didn't  do  well 
in  was  languages . 

Nathan:     You  must  have  been  using  your  mathematical  talent 
in  investment  banking. 

Witter:     I  think  that  in  our  business  you  have  to  understand 
mathematics,  certainly.   I  took  many  courses  in 
mathematics  as  well  as  history,  political  science, 
economics,  English  and  public  speaking,  in  the 
regular  curriculum. 

Nathan:     Which  parts  of  your  formal  education  have  been  of 
the  most  value  to  you? 

Witter:     I  don't  know.  I  think  that  by  the  time  you  have 
graduated  from  college,  you  have  had  your  eyes 
opened  to  a  great  many  different  fields.   I'm 
sure  that  stimulates  broader  interests.   If  you 
get  into  a  business  like  ours,  you  have  to  be 
informed  on  many  subjects. 


9. 


145 -Pound  Basketball  and  Campus  Politics 


Nathan:     Shall  we  turn  to  some  of  your  extra  curricular 

activities  as  a  student  at  the  University  of  Calif 
ornia?  For  example  did  you  take  part  in  athletics? 

Witter:     When  I  was  in  college,  I  was  interested  in  athletics, 
among  other  things.   I  played  rugby  until  the 
University  changed  over  to  American  football.   I 
also  played  on  the  University  of  California  145-pound 
basketball  team. 

Nathan:     What  position  did  you  play? 

Witter:     I  was  a  guard  and  the  other  guard  was  one  of  my 
best  friends,  John  Whitton.  We  had  played  to 
gether  on  the  Oakland  High  School  110-pound  team 
which  won  the  Pacific  Athletic  Association  champion 
ship,  and  the  following  year  we  both  played  on  the 
120-pound  team  that  won  it.   Then  in  college  we  were 
both  guards  on  the  145-pound  team  which,  with  Roy 
Sharp  and  Fred  Flodberg  as  forwards  and  Pierce 
(Caddy)  Works  as  center,  won  the  Pacific  Athletic 
Association's  145-pound  championship. 

Nathan:     Weren't  you  also  captain  of  the  145-pound  basketball 
team? 

Witter:     Well,  yes,  I  think  John  Whitton  probably  had  some 
thing  to  do  with  my  selection,  and  the  fact  I  had 
played  on  winning  teams  in  high  school  also  must 
have  been  a  factor. 

Nathan:     In  addition  to  athletics,  you  were  active  in  other 
fields  too,  weren't  you? 

Witter:     I  was  always  interested  in  various  college  activities, 
When  I  was  a  sophomore,  I  ran  for  manager  of  the 
Blue  and  Gold.   In  the  primary  election,  Percy 
Mills  and  I  received  the  highest  number  of  votes. 
We  had  to  have  a  run-off,  and  I  was  defeated  by 
about  16  votes . 

Nathan:     Who  voted  in  such  an  election? 

Witter:     All  my  classmates;  everybody  in  the  1916  class. 

The  next  year  I  ran  for  vice-president  of  the  student 
body  and  was  elected,  so  as  a  senior  I  served  on  the 


10. 


Witter:     Executive  Committee.  When  the  time  came  to  elect 
the  senior  class  president,  I  was  manager  of  Matt 
Hazeltine's  campaign.   He  was  elected  president 
and  continues  to  be  president  of  the  class  to  this 
day. 

Nathan:     You  must  have  been  pretty  adept  in  campus  politics. 

Witter:     Oh,  I  knew  a  lot  of  people.   Matt  was  my  close 

friend,  and  he  selected  me  as  general  chairman  of 
Senior  Week.   That  was  my  final  college  activity. 

Nathan:     For  Senior  Week,  did  you  plan  a  series  of  events? 

Witter:     Senior  Week  had  many  events.   There  was  a  Senior 
Ball,  a  Commencement,  a  baccalaureate  sermon,  a 
Senior  Extravaganza.   Then  the  senior  women  had  a 
banquet  and  the  senior  men  had  a  banquet.  Yes,  a 
great  deal  went  on  during  Senior  Week. 

Nathan:     Was  there  one  final  activity  after  Senior  Week? 

Witter:     I  was  chosen  one  of  a  half-dozen  students  to  speak 

at  the  final  University  meeting  in  Harmon  Gymnasium. 
That  was  my  last  college  public  appearance. 

Nathan:     You  were  an  athlete,  a  politician  and  a  speaker; 

now  how  did  you  get  into  the  musical  end  of  things? 

Witter:     Clinton  "Brick"  Morse  was  the  head  of  the  Glee  Club. 
I  knew  him  and  thought  he  was  a  wonderful  person. 
I  also  liked  all  of  the  fellows  in  the  Glee  Club, 
so  I  used  to  Join  up  with  them  for  practice  down 
at  Stiles  Hall.   I  wasn't  much  of  a  singer,  but 
I  enjoyed  it  and  the  companionship,  and  I  sometimes 
participated  when  they  sang  at  various  affairs. 

Nathan:     It  sounds  like  fun. 

In  addition,  I  see  you  were  named  to  both  the  Winged 
Helmet,  the  Junior  honor  society  and  Golden  Bear, 
the  senior  honor  society. 

Campus  Buildings  1912-1916 

Nathan:     Thinking  of  the  physical  setting  of  your  college 

days,  do  you  remember  how  the  Berkeley  campus  looked 
when  you  were  an  undergraduate--1912-19l6?  Do  you 
have  a  mental  picture  of  the  way  the  Campanile 
looked  while  it  was  being  built? 


11. 


Witter:     Yes,  I  well  recall  that  the  Campanile  was  completed 
while  I  was  in  college.   The  glen  in  front  of  the 
library  was  a  very  beautiful  area.  There  were  no 
old  army  barracks  nor  the  parking  lot  that  you  see 
there  today.  When  I  was  in  college,  we  had  picturesque 
North  Hall  and  South  Hall  across  the  road  from  the 
Campanile  and  its  park.   Since  then,  of  course, 
North  Hall  has  been  taken  down,  and  the  library 
extended.   Does  South  Hall  still  stand?   Is  it  in 
use? 

Nathan:     I  understand  that  it  is  going  to  be  refurbished 
inside  and  used  extensively.   It's  empty  now. 

Witter:     It  probably  can  stand  a  lot  of  refurbishment,  but 
it's  an  old  landmark,  and  one  of  the  few  left. 

Nathan:     Do  you  remember  which  buildings  were  being  built 
during  your  campus  days? 

Witter:     I  believe  that  Wheeler  Hall  was  built  about  that  time. 
That's  the  only  other  one  I  recall. 


12 


A  SUMMER  RANGER  IN  YOSEMITE 


Nathan:     Didn't  you  also  have  a  job  during  your  college  years? 
Were  you  a  ranger? 

Witter:     Yes.   When  I  was  in  my  sophomore  year  in  college, 
Stephen  D.  Mather  was  United  States  Assistant  Sec 
retary  of  the  Interior.   He  later  became  the  first 
director  of  the  National  Park  Service  when  it  was 
established  in  1916.   The  federal  government  had 
taken  the  management  of  the  national  parks  out 
of  the  hands  of  the  army  and  put  it  into  the  hands  of 
the  Department  of  the  Interior.   At  that  time 
Yosemite  National  Park  had  eight  or  ten  regular 
rangers  who  were  professionals  and  worked  year- 
round.   Stephen  Mather  thought  it  would  be  a  good 
idea  to  get  seven  or  eight  young  men  from  the  Univer 
sity  of  California  to  serve  as  summer  rangers  at  the 
park.   He  wrote  to  the  University's  President, 
Benjamin  Ide  Wheeler,  asking  if  he  might  have  students 
at  Berkeley  who  would  be  interested.  Wheeler  turned 
the  matter  over  to  his  secretary,  Newton  Drury,  who 
finally  accepted  the  applications  of  a  number  of 
young  men.   I  was  one  who  was  selected;  others  were 
Eric  Lawson,  James  Short,  Dan  Sink,  Leo  Meyer, 
Oliver  Haynes  and  Allan  Sproul,  the  man  who  made 
such  a  success  in  New  York  as  Chairman  of  the 
New  York  Federal  Reserve  Bank. 

We  each  had  to  have  two  horses;  one  to  be  used  as 
a  pack  horse  and  the  other  to  ride.   We  also  had  to 
have  a  kyack  (a  sack  for  a  pack  saddle),  a  saddle, 
and  so  forth,  and  enough  equipment  for  living  up 
in  the  mountains  alone.   I  think  all  of  us  served 
three  months  the  first  year.   That  first  year  I 
was  stationed  at  Crane  Flat  at  a  7200  foot  elevation. 
I  went  back  the  following  summer  and  was  again 
stationed  at  Crane  Flat  and  worked  for  another  three 
month  period.   For  my  third  and  last  summer  I  was 
the  ranger  at  Wawona.  We  were  paid  $100  a  month  to 
take  care  of  ourselves  and  our  horses.   I  saved 
some  money  which  I  used  to  help  me  with  college 
expenses . 

Nathan:     What  did  you  do  as  a  ranger? 

Witter:     Well,  my  job  was  to  see  that  cattle  didn't  get  into 
the  park,  to  see  that  dogs  and  firearms  were  not 
brought  in,  and,  most  important,  to  fight  fires 


13. 


Witter: 

Nathan: 
Witter: 


when  they  developed, 
their  problems . 


We  also  helped  visitors  with 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


Nathan : 
Witter: 


Nathan: 
Witter: 

Nathan: 
Witter: 

Nathan: 
Witter: 


Did  you  have  any  training? 

None  before  I  went  there.   I  could  ride  a  horse  and 
that  was  about  all.   All  of  the  fellows  liked  the 
outdoors,  but  none  of  us  had  had  any  training. 
However,  we  did  the  Job  satisfactorily,  and  I  liked 
it  and  was  a  ranger  for  three  summers . 

Did  you  do  your  own  cooking? 

Yes.   I  packed  in  provisions,  did  my  own  cooking, 
and  lived  alone  for  the  three  months  period  except 
when  I  would  go  down  to  the  valley.   Once  in  a 
while  I'd  see  someone  coming  through  on  the  Big 
Oak  Flat  Road.   They  used  to  try  to  drive  automobiles 
in  there,  but  without  much  success.  They  would 
get  stuck  quite  often  and  have  to  be  pulled  out. 

Did  you  have  some  sort  of  telephone  communication 
in  case  you  spotted  a  fire? 

Yes,  we  did  have  telephone  communication  with  the 

valley,  where  the  chief  ranger  headquartered.   He 

was  our  boss.   During  the  three  summers  I  was  up 

there,  the  chief  ranger  gathered  the  rangers  together 

on  two  or  three  occasions  to  fight  fires  up  in 

the  mountains.  In  each  instance,  the  fire  had  been 

started  by  lightning  hitting  the  top  of  a  tree 

and  cutting  off  that  portion  of  the  tree.   The  tree 

top  would  then  fall  to  the  ground,  and  the  fire 

would  start. 

What  sort  of  equipment  did  you  use  to  fight  fires? 

Axes  and  shovels.  What  they  usually  did  was  to 
clear  an  area  so  the  fire  couldn't  jump,  or  start 
back-fires  so  that  a  big  fire  couldn't  go  on. 

Did  the  visitors  to  the  camps  contribute  to  the 
fire  hazard? 

Not  to  my  knowledge.   The  fires  I  spoke  of  were  not 
caused  by  visitors,  but  by  lightning. 

Did  you  have  visitors  getting  lost  in  the  area? 

No,  no  visitors  came  through  that  were  lost,  but 
in  those  days  the  roads  were  just  dirt  and  very 


14. 


Witter:     dusty.   Automobiles  50  years  ago  weren't  what  they 
are  today.   Consequently,  people  would  try  to  come 
up  the  Big  Oak  Flat  Road  through  Tuolumne  Grove 
to  see  the  big  redwoods  there,  and  the  automobiles 
would  get  stuck  in  the  deep  ruts  in  the  road  caused 
by  heavy  wagons.  Then  the  visitors  would  need  help 
to  get  their  cars  out.   Somebody  from  the  valley 
usually  would  have  to  come  and  pull  them  out.  On 
two  or  three  occasions,  I  had  people  sleep  in  my 
cabin  because  their  cars  were  stuck.   My  cabin  was 
just  a  shack,  and  they  had  to  sleep  on  the  floor. 
I  had  to  get  some  meals  together  for  them,  dinner 
and  breakfast.  These  people  weren't  prepared  to 
go  out  on  camping  trips.   They  were  all  dressed  up 
to  stay  in  nice  accommodations  in  the  valley,  but 
they  just  didn't  get  there.   In  those  days,  travelling 
those  mountain  roads,  the  Big  Oak  Flat  Road  and 
the  Coulterville  Road,  was  very  rough,  and  the 
automobiles  weren't  equal  to  it. 

Nathan:     And  you  had  to  be  the  cook  and  feed  the  visitors 
on  whatever  you  had  packed  in? 

Witter:     Yes,  whatever  I  had.   I  was  the  cook.   I  wasn't 
very  good,  but  we  survived  all  right. 

Train  and  Stagecoach 

Nathan:     Was  the  valley  full  then  during  the  summertime  as 
it  is  now? 

Witter:     No,  it  was  not  at  all  the  same.  The  Ahwahnee  Hotel 
had  not  been  built  nor  had  the  present  Yosemite 
Lodge.   The  old  Yosemite  Lodge  was  small  by  comparison. 
There  was  the  Sentinel  Hotel  on  the  Merced  River, 
and  Camp  Curry  was  there,  but  much  smaller  than  it 
is  now.   It  was  a  tent  resort  with  a  central  dining 
room. 

There  were  many  camping  areas,  but  in  comparison 
with  today,  the  number  of  people  who  visited  the 

valley  was  very  small.  In  those  early  days  the 
roads  and  the  automobiles  were  not  what  they  are 
today,  and  consequently,  most  people  who  went  to 
Yosemite  took  the  train  to  El  Portal  and  the  stage 
coach  to  the  valley. 

Nathan:     Had  you  been  up  to  Yosemite  very  often  before  it 
became  so  very  popular  and  crowded? 


15. 


A_  Waiter  at  Camp  Curry 

Witter:     Well,  actually,  before  I  went  to  Yosemite  for  those 
three  summers  as  a  ranger,  I'd  been  there  only  once. 
One  summer  my  Aunt  Elizabeth  Witter  chaperoned  a 
group  of  college  Kappas  who  went  to  Yosemite  for 
a  short  vacation,  and  she  invited  her  son,  Guy  Witter, 
and  me  to  go  along.  We  camped  along  the  Merced 
River  doing  our  own  cooking  except  for  those  times 
when  we  were  invited  to  Join  the  others  for  an 
occasional  dinner.  When  the  girls'  vacation  was 
over  and  they  left  to  go  home,  Guy  and  I  decided  to 
see  if  we  could  get  Jobs  that  would  enable  us  to 
stay  longer. 

We  went  to  see  Mother  Curry  and  were  each  given  a 
Job.  Guy  was  to  be  a  porter  and  I  a  waiter.  Guy 
thought  he  had  the  worst  of  it  as  he  had  to  get 
started  at  four  in  the  morning,  while  I  started 
two  hours  later.   Also  he  was  embarrassed  when  Mr. 
Curry,  with  his  strong,  loud  voice  that  could  be 
heard  up  to  Glacier  Point,  would  call  out,  "Witter, 
Hot  water  for  tent  number  6?" .   I  liked  my  Job  as 
a  waiter.   I  was  only  busy  during  the  meal  hours 
and  had  plenty  of  time  to  play  tennis,  go  swimming 
and  have  fun  in  general. 

Nathan:     Was  Camp  Curry  composed  of  tents  with  wooden  floors? 

Witter:     Yes.   There  was  also  a  wooden  building  for  the 

dining  room,  and  small  buildings  for  offices;  but 
in  the  main  it  was  a  tent  village  with  water  and 
lavatory  facilities  scattered  in  two  or  three 
different  wooden  buildings.   People  loved  it,  as 
the  food  was  good,  the  beds  (which  were  really 
cots)  comfortable,  and  they  were  living  out-of- 
doors  in  the  mountains  surrounded  with  beauty 
unsurpassed. 


16. 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


YOSEMITE  PARK  AND  CURRY  CO. 

Did  you  go  to  Yosemite  after  your  three  summers 
as  a  ranger? 

Oh,  yes .   I  was  married  in  191?  >  and  then  after  I 
got  out  of  the  army  my  wife  and  I  took  our  very 
first  vacation  camping  in  the  valley.   And  there 
after  every  few  years  we  would  go  back.   I  remember 
going  with  a  group  of  friends,  staying  at  the 
Ahwahnee  the  year  it  was  opened,  and  twice  during 
the  World  War  II  years  we  spent  two  or  three  weeks 
at  Lake  Merced,  one  of  the  camps  in  the  high  mountains. 
Since  I  have  been  a  director  of  the  Yosemite  Park 
and  Curry  Co.,  I  go  to  the  valley  on  an  average  of 
four  times  each  year,  sometimes  even  more. 

When  did  you  become  affiliated  with  the  Yosemite 
Park  and  Curry  Co.? 

It  was  about  15  years  ago  that  I  was  invited  to  be 
a  director  by  Mary  Curry  Tresidder.   At  that  time 
she  was  President  and  is  now  Chairman  of  the  Board 
Emeritus.   I've  been  a  director  ever  since,  and 
during  that  time  the  facilities  in  Yosemite  have 
grown  tremendously.  The  company  has  tried  to  keep 
up  with  the  demand,  and  has  given  fine  service  and 
prospered  in  doing  so. 

What  sorts  of  values  have  you  tried  to  preserve 
in  the  valley? 

There  are  two  groups  of  people  interested  in  the 
welfare  of  the  valley.  One  is  the  United  States 
Department  of  the  Interior,  under  which  the  super 
intendent  of  the  park  and  the  rangers  work. 
The  rangers  up  there  are  naturalists  and  help  to 
advise  people  and  educate  them,  and  tell  them  of 
the  wonders  of  the  place. 

They  also  have  the  obligation  of  keeping  up  the 
roads  and  seeing  that  the  valley  and  the  surrounding 
country  are  maintained  in  their  natural  beauty,  and 
looking  after  the  park  in  every  way. 

The  other  group,  in  contrast  to  the  government 
people,  is  the  Yosemite  Park  and  Curry  Co.  that 
owns  and  operates  the  Ahwahnee  Hotel,  The  Yosemite 
Lodge,  Camp  Curry,  the  housekeeping  camps,  the 
Village  Store;  all  located  on  the  floor  of  the 


17. 


Witter:     valley,  and  Wawona,  Glacier  Point  Hotel,  Badger, 

and  the  high  Sierra  camps,  which  are  away  from  the 
valley  but  in  the  park.   The  company,  as  concessioner, 
provides  these  different  types  of  accommodations 
to  suit  the  various  tastes  and  pocketbooks  of  the 
many  who  visit  the  park. 

It  is  interesting  that  in  recent  years  the  general 
public  is  enjoying  larger  incomes  and  wants  the 
higher  priced  accommodations.   The  demand  for  them 
is  always  increasing. 

Nathan:     Do  you  feel  that  the  facilities  could  be  expanded 
to  accommodate  even  more  people,  or  are  they  about 
at  the  limit? 

Witter:     I  think  Yosemite  Park  and  Curry  Co.  will  enlarge 
and  add  more  accommodations  to  the  Yosemite  Lodge, 
but  that  is  about  all.   The  government  is  already 
cutting  down  the  number  of  people  who  can  camp  in 
the  government  camp  areas,  and  there  is  some  talk 
about  actually  limiting  the  number  of  people  who 
can  be  in  the  valley  on  any  one  night.   If  that 
should  take  place,  visitors  would  be  forced  to  stay 
at  El  Portal  or  some  San  Joaquin  Valley  town  and 
come  in  as  sightseers  for  the  day  rather  than 
vacationers  spending  several  days  or  weeks. 

Nathan:     What  do  you  think  of  the  proposal  to  limit  the 

numbers  of  people  who  can  come  to  Yosemite  at  any 
given  time? 

Witter:     If  the  government  puts  a  limit,  of  say  5,000,  on  the 
number  that  can  sleep  in  the  valley  any  one  night, 
I  have  no  objection.   It  will  have  to  be  worked  out. 

Nathan:     Do  you  think  there  will  be  a  new  pattern  developed 
for  people's  enjoyment  of  the  valley? 

Witter:     What  everyone  would  like  to  do  is  to  let  as  many 

people  as  possible  enjoy  the  valley  in  its  natural 
state. 

Nathan:     Newton  Drury  and  others  have  been  suggesting  that 

Yosemite  and  some  of  the  other  national  parks  should 
be  used  as  places  for  pilgrimage  rather  than  for 
recreation.  What  do  you  think  of  the  suggestion? 

Witter:     I  don't  agree  with  it.   I  think  people  should 

be  allowed  to  go  to  Yosemite,  not  only  to  see  its 
many  beauties,  but  to  stay  and  vacation  there, 


18. 


Witter:     and  enjoy  all  its  beauties  and  pleasures  including 
fishing,  swimming,  hiking,  bicycling  and  horse 
back  riding.   These  things  can  be  enjoyed  without 
interfering  with  others  or  disturbing  the  natural 
beauty  of  Yosemite. 

Nathan:     Have  you  gone  on  any  of  the  high  trips  into  the 
mountains? 

Witter:     Yes,  we  have  gone  many  times  to  all  of  the  high 
Sierra  camps.   Also,  years  ago,  Mrs.  Witter  and 
I  took  a  long  hike;  we  couldn't  do  any  part  of  it 
today,  but  even  then  we  were  exhausted  when  we 
finished.  We  started  from  a  camping  area  where  we 
had  our  tent,  and  walked  up  the  Merced  River  to 
Vernal  Falls,  then  to  Nevada  Palls,  around  Illilouette 
Falls,  and  on  up  to  Glacier  Point.  We  had  started 
late  and  it  was  very  hot.  We  got  up  to  Glacier 
Point  long  after  lunch  time,  but  we  were  able  to 
get  some  sandwiches  and  pickles  and  lemonade. 
Finally,  after  eating  them,  being  so  tired  we  felt 
very  uncomfortable.  We  were  young  then  too,  but 
at  any  rate  we  rested  up  and  came  down  the  regular 
trail  to  the  valley  and  back  to  our  tent.   We  went 
to  bed  and  didn't  get  up  until  the  next  morning. 
We  were  Just  exhausted. 

We've  walked  up  to  Glacier  Point  and  back;  we've 
walked  up  to  the  top  of  Yosemite  Falls  and  back; 
we've  walked  along  the  river  up  to  Merced  Lake 
down  to  the  Tuolumne  Meadows  and  back,  from  Merced 
Lake  to  Vogelsang — so  I've  been  all  over  the  park. 

I've  ridden  horseback  from  around  the  floor  of  the 
valley  to  Crane  Flat,  to  Tuolumne  Meadows  and  back 
up  to  Vogelsang,  Merced  Lake,  and  down  to  the  valley 
again.  That's  a  very  nice  trip,  a  wonderful  trip 
for  people  to  take.  You  can  take  the  walking  trip 
and  stay  at  the  camps  all  night,  or  you  can  ride 
horseback.   It's  terrific,  seeing  the  mountains 
the  easy  way. 


19. 


LESLIE  SALT  AND  REDWOOD  SHORES 


Nathan:     Now  if  we  follow  down  the  list  of  your  director 
ships,  after  the  Yosemite  Park  and  Curry  Co.,  we 
move  from  the  mountains  to  the  Bay,  and  the  Leslie 
Salt  Company. 

Witter:     Yes,  I  am  a  director  of  Leslie  Salt,  and  have  been 

for  several  years.   It  is  a  very  interesting  company. 
Not  that  the  salt  business  itself  is  so  interesting, 
but  the  development  of  the  company's  land  holdings 
is  extremely  so.   Mr.  August  Schilling  years  ago 
was  very  far-sighted  when  he  felt  that  some  day  the 
land  around  San  Francisco  Bay  would  be  very  valuable. 
Currently  a  small  portion  of  the  land  is  being  sold 
to  cities  and  districts  that  need  it,  with  the 
sales  taking  place  rather  than  having  to  undergo 
condemnation  proceedings .  At  present  they  are 
developing  an  area  adjacent  to  Redwood  City,  called 
Redwood  Shores,  which  is  going  to  be  an  addition  to 
Redwood  City. 

Nathan:     This  is  being  developed  by  the  company? 

Witter:     This  is  being  developed  by  a  subsidiary  that  Leslie 
Salt  Co.  has  created.  Leslie  Salt  Co.  sold  the 
land  to  the  subsidiary,  and  the  subsidiary  will 
operate  the  development.   They  are  currently  building 
a  marineland  there,  like  the  one  in  Southern 
California.   It's  a  very  expensive  one,  in  fact; 
I  think  $5  or  $6  million  will  go  into  it.  It  will 
be  an  attraction  for  that  area,  and  they're  developing 
waterways  out  of  the  sloughs,  making  canals  through 
the  property.  There  will  be  some  lovely  homes, 
schools,  stores,  and  later  some  apartment  buildings. 
It  will  be  a  splendid  development. 

Nathan:     Did  you  have  any  occasion  to  apply  to  the  Bay 

Conservation  and  Development  Commission  for  per 
mission  to  use  the  land  in  this  way? 

Witter:     I  know  that  the  president  of  the  Leslie  Salt  Co. 
had  many  meetings  and  conversations  with  these 
people.  I  believe  that  in  this  particular  area 
Leslie  Salt's  position  is  that  they  are  the  owners 
and  they  are  privileged  to  develop  this  property 
without  interference.  I  believe  that  Leslie  Salt 
Co.,  years  ago,  traded  certain  lands  to  the  state, 
and  in  return  received  the  privilege  of  developing 
this  property. 


20. 


Nathan:     Do  you  have  any  views  on  other  developments  on  the 
edge  of  the  Bay? 

Witter:     I  do.   I  think  that  as  years  go  on,  there  will  be 
development  in  many  parts  of  the  Bay  Area,  and  I 
think  that  parts  of  the  area  will  be  dredged,  as  is 
being  done  at  Redwood  Shores .   I  know  that  a  great 
deal  of  additional  property  will  be  developed  for 
residential  areas  and  some  for  business  areas. 
The  Sacramento  and  San  Joaquin  Rivers  are  continually 
bringing  silt  and  mud  down  into  the  Bay.   I  think, 
as  years  go  on,  there  will  have  to  be  dredging  in 
certain  areas. 

I  know  there  are  certain  locations  in  the  Bay  Area 
that  are  bird  refuges  and  sanctuaries  and  should 
be  kept  as  such,  but  I  sometimes  think  the  con 
servationists  are  unreasonable  in  their  demands  and 
expect  to  keep  too  much  from  the  developments 
that  the  growth  and  progress  of  our  wonderful  state 
demand.   I  think  as  time  goes  on,  the  state  will 
have  to  have  controls  and  laws  passed  prohibiting 
the  spoiling  of  the  beauty  and  attractiveness  of 
this  area,  so  that  further  development  will  go  in 
the  right  direction. 

I  feel  that  this  is  also  the  case  in  our  redwood 
areas.   As  a  business  man,  I  have  certain  sympathies 
for  the  men  in  the  lumber  business.   I  think  our 
state  redwood  parks  are  wonderful,  and  I  hope  the 
federal  government  will  vote  to  make  them  national 
parks,  and  I  even  believe  the  areas  could  be  enlarged 
within  reason,  but  I  still  feel  the  Save-the-Red- 
woods -League  and  the  Sierra  Club  demands  on  the 
lumber  people  are  too  great. 

Nathan:     How  do  you  forsee  the  balance  will  be  struck? 

Witter:     I  think  that  the  federal  government  is  taking  a 

very  active  interest  in  it.   I  think  that  between 
the  federal  government,  the  state,  the  Sierra 
Club,  interested  groups,  and  all  the  landowners 
and  businesses,  it  will  be  worked  out  to  have 
a  beautiful  park  up  there,  and  sufficient  for  the 
purposes  of  keeping  that  scenery  for  future  gen 
erations  . 

What  do  you  think  of  all  that?   [Laughter]   Maybe 
you  don't  agree  with  it. 


Nathan: 


Well,  everything  requires  some  balance  of  interests 


21. 

Nathan:     Are  you  at  all  interested  in  the  governmental  set-up 
of  Redwood  Shores?   How  is  this  new  community  going 
to  be  organized  governmentally? 

Witter:     It  will  be  a  part  of  Redwood  City.   It  will  have 

its  own  school  district;  the  city  will  undoubtedly 
take  care  of  the  streets,  the  sewage  facilities 
and  such.  The  authority  will  be  Redwood  City,  and 
Redwood  Shores  will  be  a  part  of  and  controlled  by 
the  city. 

Nathan:     This  will  certainly  make  Redwood  City  a  much  bigger 
place  than  it  was  before. 

Witter:     It  will  be  a  great  addition  to  the  city's  development, 


22. 


I.  MAGNIN,  BULLOCKS,  AND  FEDERATED  DEPARTMENT  STORES 


Nathan:     Looking  again  at  your  directorships,  here  is  the 
name  of  I.  Magnin.   Does  this  mean  that  you  have 
a  well-developed  taste  in  women's  clothes  and 
fashions? 

Witter:     [Laughter]   No,  not  at  all.  Years  ago,  Dean  Witter 
&  Co.  financed  I.  Magnin.   Dean  Witter  was  on  the 
board  until  19^0,  or  thereabouts,  when  he  went  into 
the  Second  World  War,  and  I  took  his  place  as 
director.   Some  years  later,  a  merger  was  worked 
out  where  another  gentleman  and  I  represented  I. 
Magnin  in  our  negotiations  with  Bullock's  in  Los 
Angeles,   Bullock's  traded  their  stock  and  acquired 
I.  Magnin  stock.  They  own  practically  all  of  the 
I.  Magnin  stock  now.   Magnin 's  continued  to  operate 
as  a  separate  division  of  Bullock's,  and  the  board 
of  directors  continued  to  be  the  same  as  it  had 
been  previously. 

Then  within  the  last  few  years,  the  Federated  Depart 
ment  Stores  bought  Bullock's,  which  included  I. 
Magnin.   I.  Magnin  and  Company  still  has  its  board 
of  directors.   They  don't  meet  very  often  but  it 
is  a  perpetuation  of  an  old  relationship.   Bullock's 
too  has  its  board,  but  the  control  of  Bullock's 
is  in  Federated. 

Nathan:  Are  there  any  other  such  enterprises  in  which  you 
are  involved  as  a  board  member,  besides  the  three 
we  have  mentioned? 

Witter:     No.   In  our  firm  we  don't  favor  our  partners  being 
directors  of  different  companies,  but  we  make  some 
exceptions  with  various  relationships.  The  reason 
is  that  we  are  busy  in  our  own  operations.   If  a 
man  becomes  a  director  of  several  corporations, 
he  will  find  himself  devoting  all  his  time  to  these 
other  interests,  rather  than  to  our  own  business. 
If  we  all  did  that,  we  wouldn't  do  very  well  in 
our  firm.   That's  our  theory. 


23. 


MILITARY  SERVICE,  MARRIAGE,  AND  THE  FRENCH  LANGUAGE 


Nathan:     Shall  we  turn  back  now  to  the  period  Just  following 
your  graduation  from  college  and  your  entry  into  the 
army? 

Witter:     I  graduated  from  college  in  1916,  and  went  to  work 
for  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.  as  a  student  salesman. 
After  six  or  seven  months,  I  left  to  enter  the  First 
Officers  Training  Camp  at  the  Presidio  in  San 
Francisco. 

Nathan:     Did  you  have  reserve  officers  training  on  campus? 

Witter:     No.  When  I  was  in  college,  everyone  was  obligated 
to  take  two  years  of  military  training,  which  I 
did.   This  consisted  of  drill  once  a  week  and  class 
work  once  a  week  for  two  years.   Some  students 
continued  and  became  officers. 

Nathan:     Where  did  you  drill?  On  campus? 

Witter:     On  campus  where  the  old  football  field  used  to  be, 
near  Hearst  Hall.   If  I  am  not  mistaken,  they  also 
used  to  drill  on  the  baseball  field  east  of  the 
new  track. 

Nathan:     What  sorts  of  things  did  you  learn? 

Witter:     I  can't  remember  much  of  what  I  learned  except 

marching,  formations,  military  strategy,  and  that 
type  of  thing. 

Nathan:     Did  you  enjoy  the  class? 

Witter:     Well,  it  was  all  right.   It  was  compulsory,  but  I 
wouldn't  have  chosen  it  of  my  own  volition.   But, 
the  fact  that  I  had  two  years  of  military  training 
at  Berkeley,  that  I  had  been  a  ranger  for  three 
summers  up  in  the  mountains,  plus  good  letters  of 
recommendation  when  I  applied  to  the  First  Officers 
Training  Camp  all  undoubtedly  helped  me  to  gain 
admittance,  and  may  have  helped  in  my  becoming  a 
first  lieutenant  at  the  end  of  the  three  months ' 
training  period. 

Nathan:     So  you  became  a  first  lieutenant  after  only  three 
months.   Then  what  did  you  do? 

Witter:     I  was  sent  to  Camp  Lewis  (now  called  Fort  Lewis) 


24. 


Witter:     Washington,  outside  of  Tacoma.   It  was  Just  being 
constructed.  It  was  during  the  early  fall;  it 
was  raining,  and  the  place  was  muddy  and  a  mess. 
After  being  there  a  couple  of  weeks,  I  was  transferred 
to  Fort  Sill,  Oklahoma. 

I  had  entered  the  First  Officers  Training  Camp  to 
be  a  cavalryman  because  I  knew  something  about 
horses.   During  the  course  of  the  encampment,  the 
cavalry  unit  was  absorbed  by  a  field  artillery 
unit,  so  I  became  a  first  lieutenant  in  the  field 
artillery  when  I  graduated. 

I  was  sent  from  Camp  Lewis  to  Fort  Sill,  which  was 
the  training  center  for  artillerymen.   I  joined 
a  National  Guard  regiment  from  Missouri.   After  a 
couple  of  months  the  decision  must  have  been  made 
by  the  authorities  to  send  California  officers 
to  the  California  National  Guard  unit.   I  judged 
that  it  was  the  policy  for  citizens  to  go  back  to 
their  own  home  states  and  join  their  own  National 
Guard  units.   I  was  transferred  to  Camp  Kearney, 
near  San  Diego,  California.   I  left  the  miserable 
cold  weather  in  Fort  Sill  and  came  into  the  balmy 
weather  in  San  Diego,  and  that  was  one  of  the  most 
pleasant  moves  I've  ever  made.   I  stayed  at  Camp 
Kearney  for  a  couple  of  months,  at  which  time  I 
served  with  the  "Grizzlies,"  the  143d  Field  Artillery. 

In  due  course,  I  was  again  transferred  to  Camp 
Lewis,  Washington,  back  to  the  original  regiment 
that  I  had  been  with  before,  and  joined  the  officers 
with  whom  I  had  gone  through  the  First  Officers 
Training  Camp.  While  there,  because  I  had  been  to 
Fort  Sill  and  had  participated  in  firing,  and  had 
seen  a  lot  of  the  French  '75 's,  I  was  made  an 
instructor. 

Christmas  Wedding  with  Catharine  Maurer 

I  was  married  on  Christmas  Day  in  Madison,  Wisconsin, 
which  I  guess  is  an  unusual  day  for  a  wedding;  but 
at  that  time  there  was  no  flying,  or  at  least  no 
commercial  flying,  and  train  travel  was  slow. 
Therefore,  our  wedding  had  to  be  either  Christmas 
Day  or  the  day  before  in  order  for  me  to  report 
back  to  Camp  Lewis  on  time. 

Nathan:     Who  was  the  lady  in  Madison? 

Witter:     Her  name  was  Catharine  Maurer,  daughter  of  Professor 


25. 


Witter:     Edward  Rose  Maurer  and  May  Dickens  Maurer  of 

Madison,  Wisconsin.   Professor  Maurer  was  in  the 
College  of  Engineering.  He  was  the  author  of  a 
number  of  text  books,  among  them  Technical  Mechanics, 
Strength  of  Materials,  and  Mechanics  for  Engineers . 
He  was  a  popular  and  distinguished  teacher,  and  in 
1934  was  awarded  the  Lamme  Medal  for  accomplishment 
in  technical  teaching.   He  was  listed  in  Who's  Who 
until  his  death. 

Nathan:     Since  you  were  a  California  boy,  how  did  you  meet 
Catharine  Maurer? 

Witter:     I  had  gone  to  Marshfield,  Wisconsin  after  graduating 
from  college  to  be  with  the  Conner  family  for  two  or 
three  months.  During  that  period  they  had  a  house 
party  up  at  Leona  in  northern  Wisconsin  where  their 
timber  holdings  were.  I  had  heard  from  many  of  the 
young  people  there  that  Catharine  Maurer  was  a 
very  attractive  young  lady,  and  that  the  competition 
between  a  couple  of  fellows  on  this  party  was  real. 
I  thought  I'd  get  into  the  show  Just  for  fun,  and 
I  wound  up  engaged  after  Just  a  week.  I  went  to 
visit  her  parents  before  we  returned  to  California 
from  Marshfield,  and  the  next  year  she  came  out 
and  visited  my  parents. 

That  was  Just  after  I  had  finished  the  First  Officers 
Training  Camp  and  had  become  a  first  lieutenant. 
Many  of  my  friends  were  getting  married  that  summer 
and  fall,  but  we  decided  against  it.  Catharine 
felt  she  should  finish  college,  and  I  really  did 
not  have  any  money.  My  salary,  when  I  started  to 
work  for  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.  had  been  a  mere  $50 
a  month.  That  increased  to  4100  when  I  went  to 
Officers  Training  Camp,  and  $166  after  I  received 
my  commission.  It  seemed  a  good  deal  to  me  in 
comparison  to  what  I  had  been  making  before.  I 
was  able  to  save  a  good  part  of  my  salary,  and  by 
Christinas  time  I  felt  I  had  enough  to  get  married 
on,  or  to  Just  squeak  by.  It  did  not  take  too 
much  persuasion  on  my  part  to  get  Catharine  to 
change  her  mind  about  finishing  college.  We  were 
both  tired  of  the  separation. 

Nathan:     She  then  came  out  to  the  camp? 

Witter:     Well,  she  came  to  Washington,  where  we  lived  at 
Lake  Stillicum,  about  20  miles  from  the  camp. 
I  was  an  instructor  in  the  Third  Officers  Training 
Camp,  and  then  Joined  the  3^6th  Field  Artillery 


26. 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


Witter:     later.  Then,  when  I  went  overseas,  she  went  back 
to  her  home  in  Madison,  and  back  to  college.  The 
war  ended  in  November  and  my  regiment  got  back  to 
the  states  the  following  January.   She  met  me  in 
Chicago.  We  returned  to  Oakland,  after  being 
demobilized  at  Camp  Lewis.  We  have  made  our  home 
in  the  Bay  Area  ever  since. 

When  you  went  overseas,  what  was  your  destination? 

Our  regiment  went  from  Camp  Lewis,  Washington  to 
New  York,  where  we  embarked  on  the  Olympic  for 
Liverpool,  England.  We  were  taken  by  train  to 
Southampton  and  across  the  Channel  at  night  to 
Cherbourg.  There  we  were  transported  by  train  to 
a  place  called  Leognan  down  towards  Bordeaux. 

Town  Mayor  for  the  Regiment 

Witter:     While  we  were  there,  one  day  Colonel  Pratt,  a  very 
nice  man,  asked  the  officers  of  the  regiment  if 
anyone  could  speak  French.  No  one  volunteered. 
Wanting  to  help,  I  told  him  that  I  didn't  speak 
French  well  at  all,  but  that  four  years  earlier, 
in  high  school,  I  had  really  worked  at  learning 
something  about  French  in  order  to  get  my  recommendations 
to  go  to  college.   So  I  became  town  mayor  for  the 
regiment,  and  lived  in  the  home  of  the  French  mayor 
and  his  family.  They  couldn't  speak  English,  and 
I  couldn't  speak  French  too  well,  but  we  finally 
were  able  to  understand  one  another.  I  guess  we 
were  there  for  a  month. 

Nathan:     What  were  your  duties  as  town  mayor? 

Witter:     My  duties  were  public  relations,  mostly.  I  made 
an  intense  effort  to  try  to  put  the  French  I  had 
studied  earlier  into  practice.  I  was  able  to 
learn  the  language  sufficiently  well  to  make  myself 
understood,  and  to  understand  others .  I  kept 
the  Job  of  French  representative  of  our  regiment 
all  the  time  we  were  over  there. 

We  went  to  Llffol-le-Petit,  and  I  continued  the 
same  representation  of  the  regiment.  After  the 
regiment  departed  for  home,  I  remained  in  Liffol-le- 
Petit  to  settle  any  claims  the  people  had.  There 
were  none,  and  when  we  left  the  area,  we  left  with 
everyone's  good  will.  That  was  the  object  of  the 
game. 


Nathan: 


Was  your  regiment  engaged  in  combat? 


27. 


Witter:     No,  the  field  artillery  section  of  the  91st  Division 
had  three  regiments .  The  3^6th  Regiment,  of  which 
I  was  a  member,  was  waiting  in  Liffol-le-Petit  to 
be  sent  into  the  siege  of  Metz .  We  never  fired  a 
shot  at  the  Germans.  The  347th  Field  Artillery  had 
the  same  experience.  But  the  3^8th  Field  Artillery, 
in  which  my  cousin,  Guy  Witter,  was  an  officer,  did 
get  into  some  action  and  were  cited  for  it. 

Nathan:     Have  you  ever  been  back  to  those  towns  in  France? 

Witter:     Yes,  some  years  ago  Mrs.  Witter  and  I  traveled  all 
over  the  war  area,  Verdun  and  Metz,  and  visited  the 
little  village  of  Liffol-le-Petit.   It  was  Just 
as  dirty  as  when  our  regiment  first  entered  it  in 
the  First  World  War.  The  cows  and  horses  shared 
the  homes  of  their  owners.  The  animals  were  kept 
on  the  lower  floor,  which,  I  guess,  furnished  some 
heat  for  the  people  above. 

Nathan:     Did  you  recognize  any  of  the  people  of  the  village? 

Witter:     No.   I  talked  to  one  man,  and  after  a  discussion 
of  our  encampment  in  Liffol-le-Petit,  he  said  he 
did  remember  our  regiment;  but  all  the  persons 
whose  names  I  recalled  had  either  died  or  moved 
away,  according  to  him. 

Nathan:     When  you  went  with  the  army,  was  it  your  first 
experience  abroad? 

Witter:     Yes,  I'd  never  been  out  of  the  country  before. 

No,  that  isn't  true;  I'd  been  to  Canada,  but  I'd 
never  been  to  Europe  before. 

Nathan:     Did  the  experience  change  your  views,  or  give  you 
a  different  outlook? 

Witter:     The  impression  that  I  will  never  forget  was  how 
dirty  the  farming  villages  of  northern  France 
were.  A  day  or  two  after  the  Armistice,  a  colonel 
friend  of  mine  invited  me  to  go  up  to  the  front 
and  across  into  the  German  area.  The  contrast  between 
the  cleanliness  of  the  German  area  and  the  un- 
cleanliness  of  the  French,  I'll  never  forget.   That 
struck  me  very  forcefully. 

Nathan:     Did  you  have  very  much  to  do  with  the  French  army? 
Was  there  any  liaison? 

Witter:     No,  the  only  time  that  I  met  people  in  the  French 
army  was  during  our  training  program  at  Bordeaux, 


28. 


Witter:     when  we  were  firing.  There  the  French  army  men 

were  the  teachers;  they  taught  us  how  to  fire  the 
French  !75's. 

Nathan:     Have  you  kept  up  your  French  since  then? 

Witter:     Unfortunately,  no.  I've  been  back  to  France  two 
or  three  times  on  trips,  and  after  you're  there 
a  few  days,  you  pick  up  enough  so  that  you  can  get 
along.  But  I  am  certainly  not  a  linguist. 


29. 


INVESTMENT  BANKING 


Nathan:     When  your  army  days  came  to  a  close,  it  was  probably 
time  for  you  to  consider  a  business  or  profession. 
Back  in  high  school,  had  you  developed  an  interest 
in  business,  commerce,  and  the  whole  idea  of  invest 
ment  banking? 

Witter:     No,  I  didn't  then  have  the  slightest  idea  of  what 
business  I  would  be  in.   I  didn't  make  up  my  mind 
about  business  until  I  graduated  from  college. 
I  had  several  ideas .  When  I  graduated  from  the 
University  of  California,  I  had  discussed  going 
into  the  real  estate  business  with  a  successful 
realtor.   Then,  one  of  the  Conner  cousins,  who 
roomed  with  me  during  his  freshman  year  and  my 
senior  year  at  college,  apparently  had  suggested 
to  his  father  and  mother  that  I  might  go  to  Wisconsin 
and  go  into  the  lumber  business.  They  were  success 
ful  timber  people  there.   As  I  mentioned  earlier, 
I  spent  a  very  pleasant  summer  in  Wisconsin,  where 
I  did  not  develop  an  interest  in  the  lumber  business, 
but  I  did  develop  an  interest  in  Catharine  Maurer. 

Dean  Witter  had  started  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.  in 
1914  with  Charlie  Blyth.  When  I  returned  to  Calif 
ornia,  Dean  convinced  me  that  the  young  investment 
banking  business  in  the  west  held  much  larger  oppor 
tunities  than  the  Conner  Lumber  Company.  That  fall 
I  went  to  work  for  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.  for  $50  a 
month. 

Nathan:     What  made  you  feel  that  there  was  a  future  in  in 
vestment  banking  and  the  whole  banking  process  here? 

Witter:     It  was  the  success  of  some  of  the  men  I  knew  who 

had  gone  into  the  field  a  couple  of  years  earlier. 
They  told  me  how  much  they  liked  it,  and  I  was 
convinced  that  investment  banking  and  the  brokerage 
business  were  really  the  life-blood  of  business. 
The  west  was  young,  this  business  was  young,  and 
it  was  going  to  grow.   And  it  did. 

Floods  in  the  San  Joaquin 

Nathan:     Before  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.  was  set  up,  had  Dean 
Witter  been  particularly  interested  in  commerce? 

Witter:     No.   Dean  Witter 's  father  owned  ranching  property 

in  the  San  Joaquin  River  Delta.   I  think  he  studied 


30. 


Witter:     agriculture  in  college  with  the  idea  of  following 
that  profession.  About  the  time  he  graduated,  I 
think  there  were  some  floods  along  the  San  Joaquin 
River,  and  farming  did  not  seem  so  alluring.   He 
decided  that  he  would  like  to  go  into  the  invest 
ment  banking  business,  which  he  did.   He  Joined 
Louis  Sloss  and  Co.  I  believe  he  entered  the  firm 
of  Louis  Sloss  in  about  1909.  First  he  was  a 
salesman  on  the  coast,  covering  the  area  from  Eureka 
to  Santa  Barbara.  Later  he  was  in  the  Sacramento 
Valley  and  then  became  sales  manager  for  Louis 
Sloss. 

Blyth,  Witter  &  C£. ,  1914 

Witter:     Louis  Sloss  was  a  wealthy  man  and  had  a  fine  name. 
His  firm  became  involved  in  a  number  of  enter 
prises,  such  as  Natomas;  the  Northern  Electric 
Railway,  running  from  Sacramento  to  ChicoJ  and 
Nether land  Farms.  Many  of  the  enterprises  were 
promotional,  and  they  got  into  trouble.   Louis 
Sloss  decided  to  go  out  of  business.  Dean  Witter, 
Charlie  Blyth,  Roy  Shurtleff,  George  Leib  and  Jack 
Hartigan  started  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.  in  1914.  They 
were  hardly  started  when  the  war  broke  out  in 
Europe,  and  they  had  a  very  hard  time.   However, 
the  company  prospered  in  1915*  1916  and  early 
1917.   Dean  Witter,  Hartigan,  Leib,  Mansell  Griffiths 
and  I  went  to  the  First  or  Second  Officers  Training 
Camp  at  the  Presidio  and  received  commissions  there. 

Nathan:  When  you  came  back  from  the  army  in  1919  and  didn't 
have  your  $220  or  so  a  month  any  more,  what  did  you 
do? 

Witter:     I  went  to  work  for  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.  for  a  $250 

a  month  drawing  account.  In  the  investment  business> 
salesmen  work  on  a  commission  basis. 

Nathan:     How  did  you  find  your  prospects? 

Witter:     Country  banks,  in  those  days,  were  buyers  of 

bonds,  so  I  would  call  on  banks.   Some  of  the  indi 
viduals  connected  with  banks  would  be  managers  of 
stores,  or  successful  attorneys,  or  doctors.  The 
firm  had  some  clients  already,  who  were  assigned 
to  me  when  I  went  down  to  the  San  Joaquin  Valley. 
I  also  had  obtained  names  through  friendships  and 
acquaintances,  and  through  knowledge  of  people  who 
were  successful.  Many  clients  are  developed  by  the 
salesman  calling  on  them  and  becoming  acquainted 


31. 


Witter:     with  them.   A  certain  percentage  of  the  people 

are  going  to  buy  securities,  and  you  do  business 
with  them. 

Nathan:     Did  you  have  to  inform  yourself  about  conditions 

in  the  San  Joaquin  Valley,  or  did  you  need  to  know 
only  about  financial  questions?  For  example,  did 
you  have  to  know  about  flood  conditions  in  the 
valley? 

Witter:     Well,  in  talking  to  prospective  clients,  one  should 
be  up  to  date  on  national  politics,  local  politics, 
and  all  kinds  of  current  events  in  order  to  carry 
on  conversations.   So  I  think  a  successful  salesman 
was  up-to-date,  knew  what  went  on  in  the  territory, 
knew  what  went  on  in  the  state,  and  brought  some 
news  and  Information  to  the  people  he  talked  to, 
rather  than  Just  taking  it  away  with  him. 

Nathan:     So  you  were  a  news  broker  also? 

Witter:     I  don't  think  a  salesman  is  a  news  broker,  but  he 
should  be  informed  on  what  goes  on  in  the  world, 
if  he's  going  to  get  along  with  the  people  to  whom 
he  is  trying  to  sell  securities. 

Nathan:     How  did  you  inform  yourself? 

Witter:     The  area  that  I  covered,  from  Stockton  to  Bakersfield, 
had  been  covered  by  others  in  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co. 
and  I  learned  from  them  all  I  could  about  the 
territory,  and  about  certain  accounts  with  whom 
we  had  done  business.  When  I  called  on  those 
people,  they  already  knew  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co. 
There  was  no  problem  with  them,  but  I  had  to  broaden 
my  list  of  prospective  customers. 

Nathan:     Now  Just  to  get  the  sequence  straight,  your  first 
Job  in  the  field  wasn't  with  Dean  Witter  &  Co. 
was  it? 

Witter:     No.  I  started  with  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.  in  1916. 
Then  I  was  in  the  army  in  1917,  and  came  back  to 
Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.  in  1919,  staying  with  them 
until  1924.   After  192^,  that's  another  story, 
and  we'll  go  into  that  later. 

So  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.  assigned  me  to  the  San  Joaquin 
Valley  in  1919,  and  I  stayed  there  for  about  six 
months  before  being  transferred  to  San  Francisco. 
There,  in  a  bigger  and  broader  field,  the  opportunity 


32. 


Witter:     was  much  greater.  In  due  course,  I  had  a  very  good 
list  of  people  who  were  security  buyers . 

In  those  days,  we  were  more  in  the  bond  business 
than  we  were  in  the  stock  business.  We  sold  more 
fixed  income  securities  than  common  stocks. 

Nathan:     Were  fixed  income  securities  considered  more  con 
servative? 

Witter:     We  thought  so  then. 
Nathan:     What  do  you  think  now? 

Witter:     I  think  the  most  conservative  people  are  the  ones 

who  have  been  buying  common  stocks  since  Mr.  Franklin 
Roosevelt  became  president.  Inflation  has  been  going 
on  all  this  time,  making  the  dollar's  purchasing 
power  today  about  40  cents  as  compared  to  a  dollar 
30  or  40  years  ago. 

Nathan:     In  those  early  days,  were  you  selling  municipal 
bonds  also? 

Witter:     Yes.  We  sold  lots  of  municipal  bonds,  and  we  sold 
corporation  bonds  like  Pacific  Gas  and  Electric, 
Southern  California  Edison,  General  Petroleum 
Corporation,  Sperry  Flour  Company,  and  many  other 
corporate  bonds.  They  were  mostly  California 
names .   In  those  days  people  bought  mostly  securities 
from  the  west,  that  were  obligations  of  companies 
here  in  the  west.  They  didn't  know  very  much 
about  eastern  securities . 

Nathan:     Did  you  agree  with  this  view? 

Witter:     Sure,  we  did  the  business  of  the  day.   But  as  time 
went  on,  all  that  was  changed,  until  today  people 
in  California  buy  securities  of  companies  all  over 
the  country  and  some  from  abroad.  We  sell  Calif 
ornia  municipal  securities,  and  also  many  Canadian 
securities . 

Nathan:     Are  the  Canadian  securities  coming  into  more 
prominence  now? 

Witter:     Much  more  than  they  were  30  or  40  years  ago.   They 
are  extensively  distributed  throughout  America 
today . 


Nathan: 


Is  there  any  problem  about  American  investment 


33. 


Nathan:     in  Canadian  enterprises? 

Witter:     There  is  a  tax.  disadvantage,  but  I  don't  think  of 
any  others . 

Nathan:     I  wondered  if  there  was  any  problem  connected  with 
American  control  of  Canadian  enterprises . 

Witter:     Well,  many  Canadian  companies  are  American-controlled, 
or  at  least  American  capital  has  large  investments 
in  them.  I  would  say  that  Ford  of  Canada  is  really 
a  subsidiary  of  Ford  Motor  Company;  General  Motors 
has  its  subsidiaries,  and  many  important  American 
companies  have  subsidiaries  in  Canada.   I  would 
think  that  the  control  is  in  America,  but  American 
capital  has  been  going  into  Canada  for  many  years . 
There  is  not  enough  capital  in  Canada  to  develop 
the  country  without  the  help  of  others,  like  Americans. 

Nathan:     The  other  day  some  mining  engineers  were  saying  that 
Canada  and  Australia  were  the  areas  in  which  their 
profession  is  now  the  most  active.   Does  this 
activity  reflect  itself  in  the  kinds  of  securities 
that  you  handle  from  Canada? 

Witter:     I  don't  think  it  shows  up  in  Just  that  way.   Our 
firm  doesn't  handle  any  Australian  or  Canadian 
mining  securities  as  underwriters  or  principals. 

Nathan:     May  we  then  go  back  to  the  time  you  were  reassigned 
to  San  Francisco,  after  working  in  the  San  Joaquin 
Valley?  Who  were  some  of  the  banks  and  bankers  you 
dealt  with  in  the  early  days? 

Witter:     I  used  to  call  on  the  Bank  of  California  and  sell 

them  municipal  bonds  and  other  securities.  I  called 
on  the  bank's  president,  Mr.  Frank  Anderson,  who 
purchased  securities  for  Stanford  University.  I 
also  called  on  the  Wells  Fargo  Bank,  the  Crocker 
Bank,  the  American  Trust  Company,  and  the  Union 
Trust  Company  and  did  some  business  with  all  of  them. 

Nathan:     How  about  the  Bank  of  America? 

Witter:     In  the  early  days,  the  Bank  of  America  was  the  Bank 
of  Italy.   I  never  called  on  them;  someone  else  did. 

Nathan:     Do  you  remember  any  individual  clients  particularly? 
Witter:     I  don't  think  I  should  talk  about  any  of  the  people 


34. 


Witter:     I  sold  securities  to.   One  man,  however,  now  dead, 
that  I  used  to  do  big  business  with,  was  James 
Irvine.  We  now  have  a  University  campus  on  his 
land  down  in  Irvine,  California.   He  owned  the 
Irvine  ranch.   He  was  a  very  substantial  client, 
and  I  knew  him  very  well  for  many  years. 

Nathan:     What  kinds  of  securities  were  you  selling? 

Witter:     In  the  early  days,  we  used  to  sell  bonds  primarily. 

We  sold  bonds  of  the  Pacific  Gas  and  Electric  Company, 
San  Joaquin  Light  and  Power,  and  Southern  California 
Edison.  General  Petroleum  were  Blyth,  Witter  clients. 
We  sold  lots  of  securities  for  them  and  for  General 
Pipeline  Company,  and  Sperry  Flour  Company. 

We  sold  municipal  bonds,  including  State  of  California 
Issues,  bonds  for  the  city  of  San  Francisco,  bonds 
of  cities  and  school  districts  throughout  the 
state,  and  county  bonds.   We  did  a  large  municipal 
business. 

We  sold  some  preferred  stocks,  like  Holt  Manufacturing 
Company.  We  used  to  do  quite  a  business  in  Holt 
preferred  stock.   In  the  twenties,  Harry  Fair  merged 
the  Holt  Tractor  Company  and  the  Best  Tractor 
Company  into  Caterpillar  Tractor  Company,  which 
has  become  one  of  the  great  industrial  companies 
in  America,  and  is  the  largest  earth-moving  equip 
ment  builder  of  all. 

Nathan:     Perhaps,  then,  you  were  active  during  the  time  when 
there  was  a  changeover  from  the  emphasis  on  bonds 
to  the  interest  in  common  stocks .   I  wanted  to  ask 
you  about  some  of  the  financial  practices  of  the 
Regents  in  handling  University  funds.  We  are  also 
interviewing  Mr.  Underhill  about  his  activities 
in  this  respect.  When  you  were  on  the  Board  of 
Regents  did  you  take  an  interest  in  the  investment 
program  of  the  University? 

Witter:     We  used  to  do,  and  still  do,  a  great  deal  of  business 
with  the  University  of  California.  Bob  Underhill 
was  secretary-treasury  of  the  Board  of  Regents, 
and  he  really  bought  the  securities;  but  he  had  a 
Finance  Committee  on  the  board  that  approved  the 
securities  he  purchased.   He  had  a  list  of  securities 
that  he  recommended  the  University  purchase  when 
funds  were  available  and  that  list  had  to  be  approved 
by  the  Finance  Committee.   Also  the  Finance  Committee 
had  to  approve  the  purchase  of  large  amounts  of 


35. 


Witter:     bond  issues,  which  the  Regents  wanted  purchased 
from  time  to  time.   I  once  served  on  the  Finance 
Committee  for  a  year.  At  that  time  Mr.  Sidney 
Ehrman  was  on  the  Committee,  also  Mr.  James  K. 
Moffitt. 

Nathan:     Mrs.  Maakestad,  your  secretary,  mentioned  your 

adventures  as  a  young  man  in  opening  a  bank  account 
in  San  Francisco,  at  the  beginning  of  your  financial 
career. 

Witter:     When  I  first  went  to  work  with  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co. 
about  September  of  1916,  I  went  down  to  call  upon 
Mr.  Frank  B.  Anderson,  President  of  the  Bank  of 
California.  I  told  him  I  would  like  to  open  an 
account — of  $50.  Well,  he  said  that  he  knew  Dean 
Witter  very  well  and  Charlie  Blyth  very  well,  and  that 
although,  of  course,  this  wasn't  a  very  big  account 
he  hoped  it  would  grow. 


Forming  Dean  Witter  &  Co.,  1924 

Nathan:     You  have  mentioned  your  work  with  Blyth,  Witter  & 

Co.,  but  we  haven't  really  talked  about  the  formation 
of  Dean  Witter  &  Co.   How  did  you  determine  that 
the  new  company  would  be  a  partnership,  with  many 
partners,  rather  than  being  a  corporate  body? 

Witter:     As  I  have  said,  when  Dean  Witter  graduated  from 
college  in  1909,  he  went  to  work  in  the  invest 
ment  banking  business.  The  brokerage  business  was 
not  very  important  in  those  days;  neither  was  the 
investment  banking  business,  for  that  matter.   Then 
as  I  mentioned  earlier,  after  he  worked  for  Louis 
Sloss  and  Company,  Dean  Witter  and  his  associates 
started  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.  in  191^.  They  had 
very  little  capital,  but  they  had  the  friendship 
of  Mr.  Frank  Anderson,  President  of  the  Bank  of 
California,  who  had  confidence  in  them.   Even  though 
the  First  World  War  soon  broke  out  in  Europe,  they 
managed  to  keep  their  doors  open.  Then  the  next 
year,  mostly  due  to  Dean  Witter 's  activities,  they 
encouraged  Lloyd  Gilmore  and  George  Jones  to  come 
in  with  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.  In  1916,  Mansell  Griffiths 
and  I  joined  them.  We  had  only  worked  a  few  months 
as  student  salesmen  when  the  United  States  entered 
the  war;  and  we  left  the  firm  to  go  into  the  army. 
The  war  was  over  in  November,  191°*  and  we  were 
back  at  the  office  in  January,  1919.  From  that 
time  on,  Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.  grew  and  prospered. 


36. 


Witter:     In  1924,  Dean  Witter  and  Charlie  Blyth  had  a  dis 
agreement,  so  Dean  Witter  and  I,  and  Guy  Witter 
started  Dean  Witter  &  Co. 

Partnership  or  Corporation? 

Witter:     In  1924  we  formed  a  corporation.  In  1928,  we  wanted 
to  become  members  of  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange, 
and  in  order  to  do  so,  we  had  to  become  a  partner 
ship.  At  that  time,  only  partnerships  could  be 
members.   So  we  liquidated  the  corporation  as  time 
went  on,  and  have  operated  ever  since  as  a  partner 
ship.  .  Now  today  that  rule  does  not  exist,  and 
certain  firms  like  Merrill,  Lynch  have  become  cor 
porations.  Kuhn,  Loeb,  a  very  old  New  York  firm, 
became  a  corporation,  but  after  a  year  or  two 
decided  to  switch  back  to  a  partnership.  At  present 
a  great  many  but  not  the  majority  of  investment 
firms  are  corporations.  Dean  Witter  &  Co.  has  on 
half  a  dozen  occasions  made  thorough  studies  and 
spent  a  good  deal  of  money  trying  to  understand 
every  facet  that  would  bear  on  the  change.  It  is 
a  matter  still  under  consideration. 

Our  firm  has  grown  and  today  has  four  important 
divisions  headquartered  in  San  Francisco,  Los 
Angeles,  New  York  and  Chicago,  with  about  59  offices 
in  all,  and,  in  addition,  some  branch  offices  in 
Europe. 

Profit-sharing  Plan  for  Employees 

Nathan:     Is  the  tax  situation  one  of  the  contributing 

reasons  why  you  have  a  profit-sharing  plan  with 
your  employees? 

Witter:     Partially,  but  the  major  consideration  was  our 

feeling  of  obligation  to  the  loyal  members  of  our 
organization.  In  addition,  taxes  were  very  high, 
and  we  thought  we  would  rather  see  our  employees 
share  in  the  profits  than  have  taxes  take  three- 
quarters  of  the  earnings .  Any  member  of  the  firm 
(except  a  partner,  who  can't  be  a  member  of  the 
profit-sharing  plan)  can  participate,  up  to  a 
limited  salary  (I  believe  it's  $8000  and  15  percent 
of  the  earnings).  That  fund  has  grown  very  sub 
stantially  over  these  past  20  years.  Today  it  has 
in  it  about  $12  million,  after  paying  out  $6  million 
to  people  who  have  retired.  One  of  our  men  who 
had  been  in  that  profit-sharing  fund  from  the 


37. 


Witter:     beginning  retired  last  year  and  was  paid  over 

$100,000.   This  was  from  firm  contributions;  no 
contribution  was  made  by  the  employee.  Then  he  had 
to  pay  the  25  percent  capital  gains  tax  to  the 
federal  government.   All  the  time  he's  been  with 
the  firm  and  the  profit-sharing  trust  has  been  in 
existence,  neither  he  nor  the  trust  have  paid  any 
taxes  on  the  income  that  has  come  into  the  trust . 
The  trust  is,  and  has  been,  a  great  source  of 
satisfaction  to  the  partners  and  is  appreciated 
by  the  employees . 

Nathan:     So  the  employee  doesn't  receive  his  share  until  he 
retires? 

Witter:     No,  not  until  he  retires  or  leaves  the  firm. 

Nathan:     Then  during  his  working  years  he  leaves  the  money  in 
the  firm's  fund  and  it  keeps  growing. 

Selecting  Partners 

Nathan:     How  is  it  determined  whether  or  not  a  man  is 

admitted  into  the  partnership?  What  qualities  or 
accomplishments  are  taken  into  account? 

Witter:     Well,  there  are  many.  Everybody  can't  be  a  partner, 
and  the  firm  is  just  as  good  as  the  partners  in  it. 
We  have  a  great  many  people  with  the  firm,  3200 
or  more,  and  we  have  need  for  partners  to  take  various 
responsibilities.  But,  in  the  best  interests  of 
the  firm,  we  try  to  take  the  people  who  have  dem 
onstrated  that  they  are  the  largest  contributors 
to  the  firm's  success. 

Nathan:     Is  ability  as  a  salesman  part  of  it? 

Witter:     That's  one  important  phase.   Then,  knowledge  of  the 
municipal  business  is  another  important  phase; 
knowledge  of  the  communications  system  in  this 
firm  is  important;  bookkeeping  is  very  important; 
ability  in  statistics  is  very  important;  security 
buyers  that  work  in  the  investment  banking  end 
are  important;  administration  is  important.  There 
are  many  different  phases  of  business  that  are 
necessary  to  successful  functioning,  so  we  have 
partners  in  all  these  different  phases.   And  the 
man  who  has  been  the  best,  and  knows  the  most 
about  data  processing—that "s  the  man  who  is  made 
the  partner  to  head  that  phase  of  the  business. 


38. 


Nathan:     In  a  sense,  are  you  really  looking  for  specialists? 

Witter:     They  have  to  be  specialists,  plus.   I  don't  think 
the  firm  would  be  where  it  is  today  if  it  Just 
had  specialists.   I  think  we  have  to  have  people 
who  have  shown  leadership  and  imagination,  know-how 
in  the  brokerage  business,  and  had  the  magnetism, 
ability  and  foresight  to  put  it  all  together. 
I  think  there  wouldn't  be  any  firm  without  them, 
plus  good  management. 

Salesman-Client  Relationship 

Nathan:     It  seems  that  you  are  known  as  an  admirable  sales 
man.   What  relationship  do  you  attempt  to  establish 
between  your  client  and  you? 

Witter:     Well,  now,  I  think  that  this  business  is  built  on 

gaining  the  confidence  of  the  person  who  has  worked 
hard  to  save  some  money,  and  on  the  ability  of  the 
firm  to  invest  that  money  for  him  or  her,  better 
than  others  can  do  it.   I  think  the  salesman's 
obligation  and  strength  is  to  prove  that  case.   If 
he  gets  one  good  client,  a  good  word  spoken  will 
get  other  good  clients. 

We  give  personal  service.   I  think  that  this  business 
is  a  professional  one,  where  representatives  of  the 
firm  have  relationships  with  their  clients  like  a 
doctor  or  lawyer  would  have,  and  if  they  do  a  good 
job  and  are  pleasant  to  work  with,  and  the  customer 
profits,  then  you  get  more  and  more  customers. 
This,  of  course,  is  Just  one  phase  of  the  business. 

Nathan:  How  do  you  feel  about  a  customer  who  comes  to  you 
to  handle  certain  transactions,  and  possibly  goes 
to  someone  else  for  others?  Does  this  ever  happen? 

Witter:     Many  times.   People  come  to  Dean  Witter  &  Co.  and 

do  business;  then  they  go  somewhere  else,  and  spread 
their  business  around  with  many  firms,  or  at  least 
more  than  one.   In  general,  I  don't  think  that  it 
is  a  very  good  practice,  because  what  is  every 
body's  business  is  nobody's  business.   I  also  think 
if  a  firm  is  a  good  one  and  can  handle  the  many 
different  relationships  that  are  necessary  for  a 
fine  client-investment  banking  or  brokerage  relation 
ship,  clients  are  much  better  off  to  do  business  with 
one  firm.  That  doesn't  mean  that  they  don't 
occasionally  do  business  elsewhere  for  one  reason 
or  another,  but  they  do  better  over  th(  years  if 


39. 


Witter:     they  have  somebody  in  some  one  firm  helping  them 
to  develop  their  portfolios  and  build  up  their 
security  positions. 

Nathan:     Do  you  feel  that  this  fixes  the  responsibility? 

Witter:     I  don't  believe  that  a  good  salesman  would  take 

advantage  of  a  client  and  do  the  wrong  thing  just 
because  that  client  wasn't  in  a  permanent  relation 
ship  to  him,  but  I  think  that  the  client  would  do 
much  better  where  the  salesman  and  the  firm  backing 
that  salesman  have  a  definite  obligation  to  help 
him  do  well. 


Speculation  or  Investment 


Nathan:     A  pattern  seems  to  have  developed  fairly  recently, 
in  which  there  are  many  salesmen  and  a  lot  of 
activity.   Customers  are  encouraged  to  get  in  and 
out  of  the  market,  and  enter  into  many  transactions. 
In  your  view,  is  this  a  good  development? 

Witter:     It  isn't  my  personal  view  of  a  good  development 

at  all.   Of  hundreds,  if  not  thousands  of  clients, 
most  are  not  speculators.   They  are  investors. 
On  the  other  hand,  there  are  many  who  are  speculators . 
They  want  to  get  in  on  the  money;  they  want  to  get 
out  as  soon  as  they  make  a  little  profit,  and  then 
they  pay  their  tax  like  ordinary  income  to  the 
government.  That  goes  on  every  day  in  very  big 
volume  on  the  stock  exchange. 

Dean  Witter  &  Co.  has  well  over  1,000  registered 
account  executives.   (That  is  the  professional 
name  for  a  salesman.)   Many  of  those  registered 
account  executives  encourage  clients  to  buy  a 
limited  amount  of  many  securities  so  as  to  get 
diversification.  They  want  them  to  buy  sound  securities 
in  companies  that  have  proven  earning  power  and  proven 
good  management.   They  like  to  have  that  client, 
if  he  is  very  well  to  do,  own  some  municipal  bonds, 
which  are  very  liquid  and  the  income  from  which  is 
tax-free.  If  a  man  is  in  a  50  percent  tax  bracket 
and  owns  an  eight  percent  stock,  he  gets  four  per 
cent  and  half  goes  to  the  government.   If  he  owns 
a  municipal  bond,  he  gets  four  percent,  gets  it 
all  and  keeps  it. 

Now  most  stocks  don't  pay  eight  percent,  they  pay 


40. 


Witter:     two,  three,  four  or  five  percent  and  there  is  a 

differential  between  what  the  man  has  after  paying 
his  taxes  and  the  tax-free  bond.  So  some  tax-free 
bonds  are  desirable  in  a  portfolio. 

People  like  to  buy  stocks:  first,  to  get  their 
income  from  them;  second,  to  have  them  grow  and 
become  more  valuable.   If  a  corporation  earns  $4 
and  pays  out  $2,  theoretically,  at  least,  it  should 
be  $2  richer  at  the  end  of  the  year.   If  it  does 
that  year  after  year,  at  the  end  of  10  or  20  years, 
the  corporation  should  be  bigger  and  stronger  and 
earning  more  money  and  paying  a  larger  dividend. 
Many  people  like  to  buy  stocks  on  that  basis. 

Still,  some  want  to  buy  stocks  because  they  are 
going  to  go  up  tomorrow.  Well,  the  market  has 
been  going  up.  We  are  in  a  big  inflationary  period. 
Maybe  stocks  will  go  on  up  always;  but  in  my  ex 
perience,  the  market  has  reverses  once  in  a  while. 
But  many  people  buy  when  they  see  the  market  going 
up  without  knowing  the  strong  points  of  their 
investments,  or  the  weak  ones.  Then,  all  of  a 
sudden,  the  market  goes  down.  They  don't  know  much 
about  it,  and  their  stock  has  gone  down.  They  sell 
and  take  losses.  Of  the  people  that  get  in  and  get 
out,  that  speculate  without  thoroughly  knowing 
what  they  are  doing  and  buy  things  that  they  wouldn't 
be  willing  to  keep  even  if  they  went  down  tempor 
arily,  I  think  that  the  majority  don't  prosper. 
And  so,  if  our  business  is  going  to  prosper,  it 
must  have  clients  who  prosper  and  will  therefore 
continue  to  do  business  with  our  firm. 

The  Commodity  Market 

Nathan:     Have  you,  or  has  your  firm  taken  great  interest 
in  the  commodity  market? 

Witter:     We  have  a  commodity  department  with  headquarters 
in  Chicago,  with  branch  departments  in  New  York, 
Los  Angeles,  and  San  Francisco.   Our  type  of  business 
should  have  a  commodity  department  but  in  my  opinion, 
most  people  who  speculate  in  commodities  do  not 
make  money,  and  therefore  I  don't  like  it. 

Nathan:     Is  it  primarily  speculative? 

Witter:     Very.   Certain  people  (and  this  is  the  kind  of 

commodity  business  I'd  like  to  do),  use  commodity 
markets  for  hedging  purposes:  large  bakeries,  vege- 


41. 


Witter:     table  oil  people,  and  soy  bean  people,  and  those 

that  make  saf flower  oil.   Commodities  can  be  hedged 
if  you  are  a  manufacturer  of  different  products, 
so  as  to  take  the  risk  of  commodity  fluctuations 
out  of  the  business.   That  is  a  wonderful  business; 
lots  of  big  firms  do  it.   If  a  man  thinks  he  is 
an  expert  in  following  commodities  and  watches 
weather  reports  and  thinks  he  knows  all  about  it, 
sometimes  he  can  make  some  money.  We  would  like 
to  execute  his  orders  to  buy  and  sell. 

But  what  I'm  thinking  about,  as  an  example, is  one 
of  the  many  clients  we  have,  feeling  that  he  can 
go  into  the  commodity  market  with  a  very  small 
margin,  and  buy  soya  beans,  because  they  have  been 
going  up  for  two  weeks.   He  thinks  they  will  go  up 
for  a  third  week.   He  doesn't  know  anything  about 
the  statistics  or  the  background,  and  all  of  a 
sudden  he  finds  that  it  turns  down  instead  of  going 
up,  and  he  loses  money. 

I  think  most  individuals  that  are  not  well-informed 
lose  rather  than  make  money  in  the  commodity  business, 
I  don't  think  that  type  of  business  is  good  for  us. 
On  the  other  hand,  we  can  render  service  in  executing 
orders  to  buy  and  sell  for  professionals,  and  for 
companies  that  use  the  facilities  for  hedging. 


Fluctuation 

Nathan:     You  were  saying  a  little  earlier,  that  despite  the 
confidence  of  certain  investors,  there  comes  a  time 
when  stocks  do  go  down. 

Witter:     All  companies  don't  earn  the  same  way  every  year. 
Some  years  are  much  better  than  other  years,  and 
all  companies  are  not  the  same  quality;  some  are 
better  than  others,  and  some  firms  are  much  more 
speculative  than  others.   People  who  buy  stocks 
like  to  buy  stock  that  earned  four  percent  last 
year,  and  earns  eight  percent  this  year,  or  is  at 
least  going  to  go  up.  And  if  a  company  earns  two 
percent  one  year,  four  percent  the  next,  six  per 
cent  the  next,  eight  percent  the  next  and  10  per 
cent  the  year  following,  that's  the  one  they  ought 
to  buy.   But  something  might  go  wrong  along  the 
line. 

So  stocks  don't  always  go  up,  they  go  down  and  up. 
Now  I  think  that  clients,  if  they  know  what  they 


42. 


Witter:     are  doing  when  buying  stock  (and  in  my  opinion  it 
is  the  account  executive's  job  to  teach  them), 
should  know  what  the  company  does,  know  what  its 
record  has  been,  and  know  something  about  the  people 
that  run  the  company.  When  they  know  these  things, 
if  they  still  would  like  to  buy,  that's  fine,  and 
we  should  buy  it  for  them.   Or,  if  it's  a  company 
that  we  are  underwriting,  before  we  go  into  the 
underwriting,  we  know  that,  in  our  Judgment  at 
least,  the  management  is  good,  the  company  has  had 
a  good  record,  and  we  think  the  prospects  are  good 
for  the  future;  then  we  recommend  that  clients  buy 
it.  But  we  turn  down  many  issues  and  don't  go  into 
them,  issues  that  people  do  buy  from  others.   Well, 
we're  not  always  right,  but  we're  right  much  more 
than  we're  wrong. 

Nathan:     When  you  have  underwritten  an  issue,  and  inter 
national  events  come  along  that  change  the  situation: 
for  example  this  recent  drop  of  the  stock  market 
related  to  the  Mid-East  crisis,  then  do  you  have 
to  take  the  new  events  into  consideration  before 
you  begin  the  selling  of  the  new  issue? 

Witter:     I'll  come  to  that  in  a  minute.   A  bit  earlier  we 

were  talking  about  people  buying  stocks,  and  whether, 
if  the  stocks  go  down,  they  blame  us.  Well,  if 
they're  informed  at  all,  and  you  tell  them  the 
truth  and  they  know  what  risks  they  are  taking  when 
they  buy,  and  the  war  comes  along  and  the  Israelites 
get  into  trouble  with  the  Arabs,  and  the  inter 
national  oil  companies  are  immediately  affected 
adversely,  and  the  market  goes  down,  they  know  that 
it  is  not  our  fault  at  all.  If  some  other  stock 
they  buy  isn't  so  well  known  or  so  big,  they  have  to 
rely  on  us  for  information.  If  every  time  we  sold 
them  a  stock,  (where  they  relied  on  us  for  infor 
mation)  the  stock  went  down,  we  wouldn't  be  doing 
business  for  very  long.   So  I  would  say  that  fair 
people  don't  blame  us  very  much  when  the  market 
goes  down. 

We  like  to  go  into  oil  issues,  or  manufacturing 
companies,  or  General  Electric,  or  the  automobile 
business  stocks.  They  haven't  gone  down.  We'd 
like  to  have  them  always  go  up;  but  before  we  go 
into  them,  we  know  something  about  their  past,  what 
we  think  their  future  is,  and  if  we  can  sell  them. 

Let's  take  an  example.  Ford  stock  was  up,  selling 
at  65  or  70.  I  thought  it  was  all  right  at  those 


Witter:     figures,  then  it  went  down  in  price  to  around  52. 
Ford  Foundation  sold  a  big  block  of  it,  we'll  say 
three  million  shares;  and  I  thought  it  was  a  great 
buy.  The  market  on  automobile  stocks  in  general 
went  down,  and  Ford  went  down  to  about  40.  Well,  I 
don't  think  that  anybody  who  bought  Ford  at  52  was 
mad  at  me  for  selling  it  to  them.   I  wasn't  mad  at 
myself;  I  didn't  think  it  was  going  down  like  that. 
It  is  now  back  to  52.   General  Motors  had  been 
selling  at  100.   The  automobile  business  last  year 
slowed  up  and  turned  bad.  Well,  General  Motors 
went  down  to  70.  I  thought  it  was  a  wonderful  buy 
at  70,  and  it  went  down  maybe  a  little  below 
that.   I  didn't  know  whether  it  was  going  to  go  down 
to  60  or  not.   But  if  I  recommended  it  to  people 
at  70,  it  having  been  at  100,  and  having  confidence 
in  General  Motors'  future,  my  conscience  wouldn't 
bother  me  if  it  did  go  down.  Well,  it  happened 
to  turn  around  and  it  went  up.  I  guess  it's  up  to 
maybe  80  today.   The  clients  would  think  you  were 
wonderful  if  you  always  bought  when  stocks  were  at 
the  lowest,  and  then  sold  out  at  the  highest  price 
when  the  stocks  rose,  but  I  don't  know  enough  to 
do  that,  and  most  people  don't,  in  my  opinion.   At 
any  rate,  for  myself  I  usually  buy  stocks  and  keep 
them.   And  if  you  do  that  over  the  years,  you  do 
very  well,  because  the  companies  grow  and  pay  you 
bigger  dividends  and  become  more  valuable. 


Brokerage  and  Underwriting 

Witter:     As  I  said  before,  there  are  two  points  of  view. 

One  is  the  investment  point  of  view,  and  one  is  the 
speculative  point  of  view.   Everybody  is  entitled 
to  his  own  Judgment,  his  own  wishes.   As  brokers, 
we  do  what  we  are  told.  If  a  man  tells  us  to  buy 
or  sell  something,  we  don't  say,  "Do  you  know  what 
you  are  doing?  Do  you  know  what  the  market  is, 
how  high  it  is?"  We  leave  it  to  his  Judgment  as 
to  what  he  wants  to  buy  or  sell,  unless  he  asks 
our  opinion. 

Now,  that's  different  than  when  we  underwrite  an 
issue  and  go  out  and  sell  it  to  people.  We  don't 
want  to  sell  an  issue  to  someone,  a  bond  issue  at 
100,  and  then  have  to  sell  it  at  90  the  next  week. 
We  don't  have  that  happen  very  often. 

Nathan:     Does  this  mean  that  you  may  have  to  hold  an  issue 
for  a  time? 


44. 


Witter: 


Nathan: 


Witter: 


Dean  Witter  &  Co.  are  underwriters  of  municipal 
bonds,  corporation  bonds,  preferred  stocks  and 
common  stocks .  We  buy  them,  we  own  them,  and  then 
we  go  out  and  sell  them  to  our  clients.   We  went 
into  a  syndicate  to  buy  what  we  thought  was  a  very 
good  utilities  preferred  stock  a  month  ago.  We 
sold  about  a  third  of  it,  and  we  haven't  sold  the 
other  two-thirds.  We  haven't  been  selling  it  at 
all  the  last  three  weeks.   It  is  frozen.   Interest 
rates  have  gone  up,  and  prices  of  bonds  and  invest 
ment  preferreds  have  gone  down.   The  government 
right  now  is  buying  long-term  government  bonds . 
It  strengthens  the  market  when  they  do  that.   Now 
maybe  the  preferred  market  will  go  up  in  price, 
and  the  yield  will  come  down;  maybe  the  bond  market 
will  go  up  in  price  and  the  yield  will  come  down, 
so  our  stock  will  look  attractive  and  clients  will 
buy  it.   Maybe  next  year  rates  will  be  much  lower, 
and  it  may  look  like  a  greater  bargain  than  what 
we  are  trying  to  sell  it  for  today.  We  own  it,  and 
as  soon  as  the  syndicate  decides  they  want  to  sell 
it,  then  we'll  have  to  sell  it  at  the  market. 
We  may  take  a  substantial  loss  on  it.   We  make 
losses  and  gains,  but  we  don't  make  very  many  gains 
holding  securities  that  go  up,  because  our  Job  is 
to  buy  them  in  the  morning  arid  have  them  sold  by 
night,  if  possible.   So,  if  we  don't  have  them  sold, 
we  own  them  and  often  have  to  sell  out  at  a  loss 
if  the  market  goes  against  us. 

Peace  as_  a_  Bullish  Factor 

A  little  earlier  we  were  speaking  about  the  Mid- 
East  situation  and  what  happened  to  the  market  in 
the  last  couple  of  days.   It  did  drop  considerably. 
Let's  take  a  hypothetical  situation.   Suppose  the 
Vietnam  war  were  resolved,  and  there  were  not  any 
outbreaks  on  the  horizon,  what  do  you  think  would 
happen  to  the  market? 

I  think  that  if  the  Vietnam  war  were  over,  it  would 
be  a  very  bullish  factor.   I  think  it  is  awful  to 
be  in  that  mess  over  there,  but  I  don't  know  how 
to  get  out  of  it.   And  you  have  to  support  your 
government  therein.   I  think  it  would  be  bullish  if 
that  war  should  end,  and  I  think  it  would  be  bearish 
if  a  great  big  war  gets  going  over  in  Israel.   I 
think  it  would  be  a  catastrophe.   It  might  even 
lead  to  war  between  Russia  and  the  United  States. 
That's  one  of  the  reasons  the  market  has  been  weak 
here  recently.   I'm  an  optimist  and  I  don't  think 


Witter 


the  worst  will  happen. 


The  market  is  very  sensitive,  particularly  the 
international  oils.   Standard  Oil  of  California 
has  gone  down  a  little.  It  was  up  to  66  in  1961. 
It  has  gone  down  from  63  or  64  to  56  1/2.   I  would 
take  a  chance  we  were  not  going  to  have  a  war  with 
Russia;  this  thing  will  blow  over  and  Standard 
Oil  of  California  at  56  is  a  fine  investment  today, 
tomorrow,  and  years  ahead,  and  I  would  buy  it. 
In  fact,  there's  been  talk  for  two  or  three  weeks 
about  possible  trouble  in  the  Middle  East,  but 
within  a  month  or  so  I  bought  Standard  Oil  of  New 
Jersey  at  63.  Now  it's  down  to  61  and  that  doesn't 
bother  me  an  iota.   I  think  most  people  will  feel 
the  same,  and  I  don't  think  they  blame  us  if  the 
market  goes  down.   I  think  they  usually  feel  that's 
just  part  of  investing.   What  do  you  think? 

Nathan:     Somehow  I  think  it  would  be  very  hard  to  blame 
world  events  on  Dean  Witter  &  Co.   [Laughter] 

Witter:     If  you  are  dealing  in  good  securities,  I  don't  think 
the  public  resents  the  market's  going  down  or  blames 
the  investment  house  for  the  market's  going  down. 
If  you  make  a  lot  of  mistakes  and  the  securities 
aren't  listed,  and  those  securities  go  down  while 
the  rest  of  the  market  goes  up,  well  I  think  they'll 
criticize  you  severely,  and  should. 

Nathan:     Could  you  compare  the  people  who  used  to  make  money 
on  the  stock  market,  and  those  who  do  now?   Is  there 
any  difference? 

Witter:     I  would  think  that  people  who  are  investors  make  money 
over  the  years  now,  Just  as  they  always  have  done. 
I  think  that  some  people  who  take  bigger  chances 
and  buy  stocks  in  less  well-established  companies 
in  a  big,  expanding,  speculative  period  such  as  we've 
been  in,  make  more  money  than  people  who  have  bought 
the  solid,  fine,  good  stocks.   I'm  sure  of  that;  but 
to  answer  your  question  specifically,  there  are 
many  people  who  haven't  been  badly  burned,  who  are 
making  more  money  than  some  of  those  that  have  seen 
1929  and  don't  want  to  get  caught  again. 

A  Bond  House  Adds  Brokerage 


Nathan:     We've  been  talking  sort  of  all  around  the  market, 
but  I  would  like  to  get  back  to  your  own  firm  and 


46. 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


how  it  developed  and  expanded, 
talking  about  that  now? 


Do  you  feel  like 


Sure.   I  told  you  that  Dean  Witter  &  Co.  started  as 
a  bond  house.   The  first  transaction  we  had  was  to 
go  to  Sacramento  and  buy  a  couple  of  hundred  thousand 
dollars  of  State  of  California  bonds,  and  we  retailed 
them.  Along  in  1928  and  '29,  we  were  in  a  very 
speculative  market,  and  many  of  our  clients  were 
unhappy  buying  fixed  income  securities  when  they 
saw  their  friends  buying  equities  that  doubled  and 
tripled  in  value.  We  lost  many  clients  to  brokerage 
houses,  so  we  thought  that  we  should  go  into  the 
brokerage  business,  and  finally  agreed  on  it.   As 
we  mentioned  before,  in  order  to  become  a  member  of 
the  New  York  Stock  Exchange,  it  was  necessary  to 
become  a  partnership  to  supersede  our  corporation. 
Only  partnerships  could  be  members  of  the  New  York 
Stock  Exchange  in  1929.   Now  corporations  can  be 
members  also. 

We  ran  two  different  businesses  on  separate  floors 
in  the  Kohl  Building  at  California  and  Montgomery 
Streets  in  San  Francisco.   The  investment  business 
continued  to  function  with  our  firm  buying  and  selling 
securities  as  a  principal.  The  brokerage  business 
was  gradually  developed  to  buy  and  sell  as  an  agent 
for  people  who  were  interested  in  New  York  Stock 
Exchange  securities.   Then,  in  late  1929*  a  very 
severe  depression  took  place.   Fortunately,  we  were 
not  extended  at  all  in  the  brokerage  department, 
and  our  inventory  was  up  to  date  in  the  investment 
banking  department.  In  those  days  we  had  a  very 
small  branch  office  in  Los  Angeles  and  a  small  branch 
office  in  Seattle,  but  we  carried  all  the  inventory 
in  San  Francisco.   We  had  some  small  inventory 
losses.  We  had  a  series  of  rugged  years;  but  for 
tunately  ever  since  this  firm  started,  we  have  made 
some  money  in  every  year. 


Growth  of  the  Firm 


Nathan:     Were  there  just  six  partners  involved  around  1929? 

Witter:     When  we  started  the  firm,  I  think  there  were  only 
six  partners:  Dean,  Jean,  Guy,  Edwin  Witter,  Fritz 
Janney,  and  George  Cronin. 

When  we  started  in  1924,  that  was  the  group,  and  we 


Witter:     had  some  new  partners  soon  after.   I  remember  G.  W. 
Miller  was  one  and  Clay  Sorrick  was  another. 

Nathan:     So  your  firm  managed  to  weather  the  depression? 

Witter:     We  did,  and  made  money  every  year.  We  had  good 
years  in  1936,  '37,  and  '38. 

Nathan:     There  is  a  note  about  your  absorbing  Bissinger  and 
Co.  in  1939.  Was  this  part  of  your  development? 

Witter:     The  firm  has  grown  and  developed  in  two  ways:   one, 
by  internally  educating  young  men.   In  the  last  20 
years,  we  have  trained  probably  1000  account  ex 
ecutives.   Prior  to  that,  we  trained  a  great  many 
also,  but  fewer  by  comparison. 

In  the  other  method,  the  firm  grew  very  substan 
tially  through  mergers.   Bissinger  and  Co.  in  1939 
were  brokers  here  in  San  Francisco,  and  wished  to 
go  out  of  business.   So,  in  1939,  we  acquired  their 
business . 

In  19^0,  we  merged  with  William  Cavalier  and  Co. 

with  offices  in  San  Francisco,  Los  Angeles,  Oakland, 

Santa  Ana  and  several  other  locations.   It  proved 

to  be  a  very  good  move  for  us  and  for  William  Cavalier, 

who  became  a  special  or  limited  partner.   Two  of 

his  partners,  Lloyd  Stevens  and  Herman  Michaels 

became  general  partners  in  Dean  Witter  &  Co. 

In  19^1,  Leib,  Keyston  Company  wanted  to  go  out  of 
business,  so  we  took  over  their  organization  here 
in  San  Francisco,  and  made  Charles  Clay  a  general 
partner.   That  was  a  very  successful  move. 

In  1953,  Harris,  Hall  &  Co.  of  Chicago  decided  that 
they  wished  to  merge  or  sell  their  firm.   Harris, 
Hall  had  been  one  of  the  17  firms  that  had  been 
sued  for  monopoly  by  the  federal  government.   They 
were  a  good  investment  firm  confining  themselves  to 
the  underwriting  and  distribution  of  bonds  and  pre 
ferred  stocks.   They  knew  nothing  of  the  common  stock 
business  or  the  brokerage  business.   Dean  Witter  & 
Co.  had  a  man  in  Chicago  at  that  time,  contacting 
the  banks,  and  acting  as  sort  of  a  listening  post. 
We  had  another  man  representing  us  on  the  Chicago 
Board  of  Trade  to  handle  the  commodity  business, 
which  we  were  executing  through  another  firm.   The 
primary  reason  that  we  were  in  Chicago  was  that  we 
did  quite  a  substantial  commodity  business  and  had 


48. 


Witter:     to  have  someone  there  to  look  after  it.  We  also 
thought  it  was  wise  to  have  a  listening  post. 

On  one  of  my  trips  east,  I  learned  that  Harris,  Hall 
&  Co.  would  like  to  merge  or  sell  out,  so  we  dis 
cussed  acquiring  that  company.   It  seemed  that  Mr. 
Harris  wanted  to  be  a  director  of  Harris  Trust  and 
Savings  Bank  and  did  not  wish  to  continue  with 
Harris,  Hall.   Ed  Hall,  who  really  headed  or  managed 
the  company,  wanted  to  retire.  We  made  that  merger 
in  1953*  and  in  the  last  14  years  have  built  up  a 
very  well-rounded  business  in  Chicago.   One  of  the 
greatest  assets  in  doing  so  was  the  acquisition  of  the 
Central  Republic  Co.  in  Chicago.   It  had  seven 
branches,  including  those  in  Des  Moines,  Milwaukee, 
Minneapolis,  and  Omaha. 

Then  one  of  our  finest  mergers,  really  an  acquisition, 
came  in  1959  when  we  acquired  Laurence  Marks  and  Co. 
in  New  York.  Laurence  Marks,  and  some  of  his  associates, 
started  their  company  years  ago,  following  some 
problems  that  Lee  Higginson  had  when  they  underwrote 
Match  Company  bonds  for  Kreuger.   There  was  great 
dishonesty  and  a  collapse.   The  Kreuger  company 
didn't  have  the  assets  they  claimed  to  have.  It 
was  a  terrible  fiasco,  from  which  Lee  Higginson 
never  recovered. 

Some  Overseas  Relationships 

Witter:     So  Laurence  Marks  and  his  associates  started  Laurence 
Marks  and  Co.  Their  basis  of  doing  business  was 
to  have  an  excellent  research  department,  and  then 
contact  institutions  in  the  United  States  and  abroad, 
giving  them  first-class  research  material.   Then, 
in  turn,  all  these  different  institutions  would  give 
them  brokerage  business.   The  company  built  up  a 
very  good  business,  particularly  a  fine  business 
abroad.  Laurence  Marks  (a  friend  of  mine  for  many 
years)  suddenly  died;  his  partners  didn't  have 
sufficient  resources  to  carry  on  the  business.  We 
knew  the  partners,  and  we  knew  Mrs.  Marks,  the  widow. 
She  entertained  proposals  from  many  firms.  We  made 
the  proposal  that  appealed  to  Laurence  Marks ' 
associates  and  Mrs.  Marks,  so  we  acquired  Laurence 
Marks  and  Company  in  1959--a  fine  thing  for  us.  It 
implemented  our  research  department  in  a  major  way, 
and  it  gave  us  relationships  in  England,  Scotland, 
Holland,  Italy --throughout  Europe --that  we  hadn't 
had  before.  That  has  been  profitable  ever  since, 
and  the  relationship  in  New  York  was  profitable. 
It  was  good  for  the  Marks  people,  and  it  was  good 


Witter:  for  us. 

Nathan:  So  your  concern  is  more  than  nationwide? 

Witter:  We  do  quite  a  substantial  business  abroad  now. 

Nathan:  This  is  primarily  since  1959? 

Witter:     Yes.  We  did  some  business  abroad  before  that,  but 
now  it's  really  professionally  good. 

Nathan:     Did  this  expansion  extend  to  other  areas  of  the 
world  in  addition  to  Europe? 

Witter:     No.  We  tried  an  office  in  Hong  Kong,  but  we  didn't 
like  the  way  business  was  done  over  there.   The  New 
York  Stock  Exchange  has  very  strict  rules,  which  we 
make  it  our  business  to  adhere  to.   And  if  you  have 
some  Chinese  who  do  business  like  the  Chinese  do 
it,  rather  than  the  way  Americans  do  it,  we  were 
fearful  it  might  lead  us  into  some  trouble.   Hong 
Kong  was  a  long  way  off.  We'd  given  it  a  short 
try,  and  decided  that  we  had  plenty  of  business  to 
do  at  home  and  in  Europe. 

Data  Processing  and  Communications 


Nathan:     Would  you  like  to  comment  on  brokerage  overhead, 
and  some  of  its  components? 

Witter:     Brokerage  overhead  is  growing  by  leaps  and  bounds. 
Back  10  or  15  years  ago,  or  even  earlier,  when 
business  was  very  bad  in  the  early  thirties,  and  when 
the  Second  World  War  broke  out,  the  volume  could  be 
a  half  million  shares .   Our  overhead  was  compact 
and  low.  We  could  keep  the  doors  open,  and  break 
even  with  that.  Today  we  think  that  our  break 
even  point  is  five  or  six  million  shares  a  day. 

Of  course,  the  business  has  been  very  active.  We 
made  studies  to  determine  how  big  the  business  would 
be  and  how  we  should  train  people  and  develop  our 
facilities  for  a  period  10  years  hence.  We  did 
this  a  year  or  two  ago.  At  that  time,  we  determined 
that  we  should  be  prepared  to  handle  10  million  shares 
days  rather  consistently.  We've  been  having  them 
this  year,  about  eight  or  10  years  ahead  of  time. 
The  business  has  grown  tremendously. 

Now,  the  means  of  doing  bookkeeping  has  all  changed. 


50. 


Witter:     We  use  International  Business  Machines.   So  that,  if 
we  have  10,000  transactions,  or  20,000  transactions, 
with  the  aid  of  the  machines  we  can  get  the  state 
ments  out  on  the  night  of  the  day  the  transaction 
was  made.  Years  ago,  the  business  would  expand  and 
contract,  and  everything  was  done  by  hand.   If  you 
had  four  or  five  big  days,  you'd  get  behind,  and 
wouldn't  catch  up  for  a  week  or  two.  Today,  the 
larger  firms  all  have  this  data  processing  equip 
ment.   It  enables  them  to  handle  the  increased  volume 
in  stride. 

But,  it's  very  expensive  to  have  that  type  of  equip 
ment.   Further,  if  you  have  very  expensive  equipment 
and  only  use  it  three  or  four  hours  a  day,  there 
might  not  be  any  savings  in  it.   But  if  you  can  use 
it  eight  or  10  hours  a  day,  then  there  is  a  great 
saving.   And  if  we  could  use  it  all  the  time,  it 
would  really  cut  our  costs  down  substantially,  more 
than  we  have  been  able  to  get  them  down  so  far. 

In  addition  to  the  costs  of  the  data  processing 
equipment,  our  wires  are  very  expensive,  and  that  cost 
has  gone  up.   Of  course,  wages  continually  go  up. 
The  large  firms  that  are  equipped  with  fine  wire 
systems  and  fine  data  processing  equipment,  and  are 
well  organized  for  big  volume,  make  more  money  when 
the  business  is  so  active. 

But  many  of  the  smaller  brokerage  firms  that  don't 
have  the  equipment  and  don't  have  these  modern  facilities 
have  trouble  making  enough  income  to  take  care  of 
their  overhead. 

Nathan:     Would  you  say  that  the  advance  in  communication 

developments  has  really  made  possible  this  enormous 
growth  in  volume? 

Witter:     It  has.   It  has  made  the  volume  possible  to  handle. 
We  just  couldn't  handle  it  (neither  could  the  other 
people  in  this  business  handle  the  tremendous  volume), 
if  we  didn't  have  excellent  communication  systems 
and  modern  data  processing  equipment. 

Nathan:     When  you  refer  to  wires,  are  these  leased  wires? 
Witter:     Leased  wires. 

Nathan:     Are  they  used  in  connection  with  the  commodity 
markets  also? 


51. 


Witter: 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


Our  leased  wires  are  ours  to  use  for  commodities,  or 
investment  banking,  or  brokerage,  or  whatever  we 
wish  to  use  them  for.  We  have  a  communication  center 
downstairs,  which  I'll  be  very  glad  to  show  you. 
We  use  American  Telephone  and  Telegraph  Company 
equipment.   That  equipment  connects  all  of  our  offices 
together.  We  can  send  a  message  direct  to  New  York, 
or  we  can  send  it  to  New  York  and  more  than  50  other 
offices.   Or  if  we  want  to  send  it  to  just  New  York 
and  Chicago  and  Los  Angeles,  we  can  do  so,  and  eliminate 
the  other  offices.   It's  a  very  rapid  means  of  trans 
mitting  messages. 

We  place  our  orders  here  in  San  Francisco.   They  are 
transmitted  over  the  wire  to  New  York,  executed,  and 
confirmation  comes  back.   Then  all  of  the  bills  are 
figured  in  New  York  and,  at  night,  are  sent  back 
to  San  Francisco  for  this  part  of  the  western  area, 
all  figured  and  typed  on  a  bill.   On  the  bill  is  a 
number,  and  that  number  has  a  plate  across  the  street 
in  our  accounting  department.   The  plate  that  corres 
ponds  to  the  number  is  pulled  out;  that  gives 
the  name --Mr.  John  Jones,  14  Kearney  Street,  San 
Francisco.   The  plate  information  is  put  on  the  bill, 
and  the  bill  is  ready  to  go  out. 

It  all  comes  from  New  York  back  to  San  Francisco. 
The  same  thing  is  done  in  Los  Angeles:   the  wire 
connects  New  York  and  Los  Angeles,  and  the  bills  are 
sent  out  from  Los  Angeles.   The  bills  for  New  York 
and  Chicago  are  mailed  from  New  York.   The  bills 
from  San  Francisco  go  to  Portland,  Seattle,  Honolulu, 
and  as  far  south  as  Paso  Robles . 

Your  westernmost  office  is  the  one  in  Honolulu? 

That's  right.  We  also  have  offices  in  Arizona,  in 
Phoenix  and  Scottsdale — that's  a  big  office.   Then 
we  go  back  to  Denver,  and  Denver  is  part  of  the  mid 
west  office. 


Promising  Territory  for  Expansion 


Nathan:     Do  you  look  for  further  expansion  in  any  particular 
area,  for  your  own  firm? 

Witter:     Well,  we  have  no  ambition  to  be  the  biggest  firm 

with  the  most  offices.   But,  if  opportunities  came 
where  we  could  open  in  Texas — I  think  that's  a  great 


52. 


Witter:     territory.   I  think  Ohio  is  a  great  territory,  if  we 
had  just  the  right  opportunity  there.   They  say, 
and  our  own  statistics  indicate,  that  Florida  is 
a  great  place  for  us  to  be.   I  won't  say  we  won't  be 
there,  some  time.  We  might  make  a  merger,  we  might 
have  Just  the  right  men  to  open  an  office,  and  colonize, 
and  build  it  up.   But  at  the  moment  we  have  no  plans 
to  go  into  newer  territories. 

We  consistently  develop  and  open  new  offices  on  the 
Pacific  Coast,  to  make  us  stronger  here.  We  open 
a  new  office  out  of  New  York,  occasionally.   Out  of 
Chicago,  we  opened  in  Denver  and  Indianapolis.   Both 
were  very  fine  moves.   There  is  plenty  of  business 
where  we  are,  and  we're  busy  expanding  our  business 
in  the  territories  where  we  are  located.   The  opportunity 
will  have  to  be  unusually  alluring  to  get  us  to  go 
somewhere  else.  We  won't  go  just  for  bigness.  We'll 
go  if  we  think  it's  going  to  be  profitable  and  fit 
into  our  overall  picture. 

Nathan:     That  finishes  my  list  of  questions  concerning  your 
business,  but  I  would  be  delighted  to  hear  anything 
else  you  would  like  to  say  about  it,  concerning  the 
past,  present,  or  future. 


Organizational  Structure 

Witter:     We  have  spoken  a  little  about  the  organization  of  the 
firm.   If  you'd  like  some  more,  I  can  tell  you  about 
it.   Dean  Witter  &  Co.'s  head  office  is  here  in  San 
Francisco.  Where  we  are  now,  on  the  second  floor 
at  45  Montgomery  Street,  is  the  administration  office 
for  the  entire  organization.   The  company  has  four 
divisions.   One  we  call  the  Pacific  Northern  Division, 
that  goes  to  Portland,  Seattle,  back  to  Salt  Lake  and 
Reno,  and  out  to  Honolulu.   Other  offices  are  in 
Berkeley,  Eureka,  Everett,  Fresno,  Modesto,  Monterey, 
Santa  Rosa,  Stockton,  Tacoma,  Visalia,  and  Walnut 
Creek.   Everett  and  Tacoma,  of  course  are  in  the 
state  of  Washington;  the  others  are  in  California. 

Then  the  Pacific  Southern  Division  is  headquartered 
in  Los  Angeles.   They're  set  up  quite  like  we  are 
here.   They  cover  the  southern  part  of  the  state  of 
California,  and  go  out  to  Arizona. 

In  Chicago,  we  have  the  Midwest  Division.   It  has 


53. 


Witter:     seven  branches  located  in  such  places  as  Minneapolis, 
Omaha,  Milwaukee,  Denver,  Indianapolis,  Des  Moines, 
and  Kansas  City,  Missouri. 

Then  we  have  our  Eastern  Division,  headquartered  in 
New  York,  with  offices  in  Boston  and  Philadelphia. 
And,  of  course,  the  New  York  Stock  Exchange  is  in 
New  York.  There's  where  we  have  the  tremendous 
accounting  system  and  our  IBM  equipment;  where  we 
have  our  accounting  center,  and  our  large  research 
activities.  That's  where  most  of  the  large  invest 
ment  banking  offerings  come  from.  They're  headquartered 
in  New  York.  We  are  very  busy  there  in  our  relation 
ship  with  other  investment  banking  firmsv.   All  the 
orders  from  the  brokerage  departments,  all  through 
the  system,  are  executed  there  in  New  York  on  the 
New  York  Stock  Exchange  or  the  American  Stock  Exchange. 
New  York,  from  the  point  of  view  of  the  stock  ex 
change  business  is  the  hub  of  the  wheel.   And,  of 
course,  it  is  our  fourth  division,  our  Eastern 
Division.  We  try  to  have  the  business  operated  as 
much  as  possible  by  the  people  in  those  different 
divisions .   But  matters  of  policy  and  final  commitments 
are  decided  in  San  Francisco  by  the  executive  committee. 
That  shows  you  how  we  are  set  up.   It  functions;  it 
works  fine. 

Nathan:     Yes,  I  see.   Now,  who  is  on  the  policy-making  executive 
committee  of  the  firm? 

Witter:     The  members  are  Dean  Witter,  myself,  John  Witter, 
Eaton  Taylor,  Thomas  W.  Witter,  Wendell  W.  Witter, 
G.  Willard  Miller,  Jr.,  and  Edward  A.  Pence. 

Nathan:     You  were  saying  earlier  that  in  matters  of  possible 

expansion  you  look  to  see  if  you  have  the  right  person 
or  the  right  people  to  undertake  the  Job. 

Witter:     Yes.   Those  people  might  be  in  San  Francisco,  Los 

Angeles,  Chicago,  New  York—you  don't  know  Just  where 
they  are. 

Nathan:     In  addition  to  having  just  the  right  people  for  the 
locale,  how  do  you  determine  that  a  certain  locale 
would  be  good  for  expansion? 

Witter:     It  depends,  in  my  opinion,  on  the  potential  growth 

of  the  area,  the  wealth  of  the  people  that  live  there. 
I  think  those  three  states  that  I  mentioned  are 
among  the  best  in  the  United  States  as  far  as  growth 
prospects  are  concerned,  and  increased  numbers  of 


54. 


Witter:     people  with  money  to  buy  securities,  other  than  on 
the  Pacific  Coast.  We  are  in  the  spot  I  like  best, 
on  the  Pacific  Coast. 


Recruiting  and  Training 


Nathan:     On  the  back  cover  of  the  California  Monthly,  your 
firm  seems  always  to  have  an  ad  where  you  list 
more  than  100  Cal  people  who  are  affiliated  with 
your  firm  presently.   Does  this  have  any  connection 
with  your  interest  in  the  Graduate  School  of  Business 
Administration?   (I  want  to  ask  you  about  that 
later,  too. ) 

Witter:     No,  there's  no  connection.  We  have  been  running 

that  ad  in  the  California  Monthly  for  35  years  any 
way,  maybe  longer.   There  was  one  period  when  we 
gave  it  up,  because  somebody  else  wanted  the  back 
cover.  We  were  off  for  a  few  years,  and  then  we 
came  back  on  again.  We  advertised,  first  with 
a  small  list  that's  grown  over  the  years. 

Nathan:     Do  you  give  preference  to  Cal  graduates  in  your  firm? 
Or,  how  does  it  happen  that  you  have  so  many? 

Witter:     I  think  in  the  early  days,  acquaintance  had  a 
lot  to  do  with  it.   Dean  Witter  is  the  senior 
and  the  eldest,  and  he  knew  many  of  my  contemporaries, 
and  encouraged  their  coming  in.  We  knew  others 
Junior  to  us,  and  encouraged  their  coming;  many  of 
our  close  friends  came  into  the  business.   As  years 
have  gone  on,  we  have  selected  a  good  many  from 
Stanford,  USC,  UCLA,  and  some  from  Berkeley.   We 
take  them  from  many  directions  now.   But  most  of 
the  young  men  that  we  take  in  the  sales  program  have 
college  degrees  and  have  completed  their  army 
work,  and  are  ready  to  settle  down. 

Nathan:     What  do  you  look  for  in  a  young  man  who  comes  to 
apply  for  a  Job? 

Witter:     I  think  we  want  men  that  are  serious -minded,  with 
good  educations,  and  smart.   Men  that  are  nice 
appearing,  and  personable,  and  above  all,  have  an 
aptitude  for  this  type  of  business.  When  we  talk 
with  them,  we  Judge  personality,  appearance,  and 
background,  but  we  never  hire  without  having  some 
body  test  for  us  on  aptitude  and  ability.   Dr. 


55. 


Witter; 


Nathan; 
Witter: 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


Nathan; 
Witter: 


Edwin  Ghiselli  over  in  Berkeley  did  that  for  us 
for  years.   His  aptitude  test  would  be  to  talk 
with  them.   He  would  form  a  judgment  as  to  whether 
they  were  A,  B,  C,  or  D.   If  they  weren't  A  or  E, 
they  didn't  get  a  Job.   We  have  aptitude  testing 
now,  but  I  forget  who  does  it. 

Once  they  come  into  the  firm,  do  you  continue  to 
train  them? 

In  San  Francisco,  Los  Angeles,  and  New  York,  we  have 
schools  that  are  larger  today  than  they  have  ever 
been.   I  would  think  that  we  have  on  the  third 
floor,  Just  above  us,  at  least  50  students  studying 
right  now,  and  we  have  at  least  50  scattered  between 
Los  Angeles  and  New  York.  There  must  be  100  in 
training.   Over  the  years,  we  have  graduated  over 
1,000  young  men  from  our  school. 

Is  this  a  tuition-free  school? 

We  pay  them  to  come  here.   For  a  married  man  with 
a  family,  there  is  a  payment  of  $650  a  month  for 
six  months,  for  just  studying.   Then  there  are  rates 
of  $600  and  $550,  depending  on  qualifications  and 
their  own  responsibilities. 

At  the  end  of  the  study  period,  are  they  screened 
again? 

No,  at  the  end  of  the  period,  they  take  a  New  York 
Stock  Exchange  examination,  and  I'm  glad  to  say  that 
our  boys  are  well-trained,  and  they  stand  at  the  top 
of  the  graduates  for  all  firms  of  our  size.   They 
do  a  very  good  Job. 


56. 


ALUMNI  COUNCIL  AND  THE  BOARD  OF  REGENTS 


Nathan:     Along  with  your  other  business  responsibilities,  and 
your  partnership  in  Dean  Witter  &  Co.,  you  have 
also  done  some  interesting  kinds  of  volunteer  work 
with  the  University  of  California  Alumni  Association. 
How  far  back  does  the  alumni  connection  go?   Did  it 
begin  immediately  after  you  came  back  from  the  army? 

Witter:     No,  as  a  matter  of  fact,  I  did  not  have  any  par 
ticular  relationship  with  the  Alumni  Council  until 
later  years. 

Nathan:     How  did  your  interest  develop? 

Witter:     When  I  was  elected  to  the  Alumni  Council,  I  naturally 
became  interested  in  alumni  activities.   I  had  been 
president  of  the  Investment  Bankers  Association  of 
America  in  1938  and  1939.   It  followed  sometime 
after  that  that  I  was  elected  to  serve  on  the  council, 
and  served  two  or  three  years.  After  several  years, 
I  was  elected  council  president;  as  president  you 
serve  for  two  years  and  become  a  Regent  of  the 
University,  ex-officio.  You  know,  out  of  the  24 
Regents,  there  are  eight  who  serve  ex-officio,  like 
the  president  of  the  Mechanics'  Institute.   The 
current  Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Regents  is  Ted 
Meyer  who  became  a  Regent  because  he  was  president 
of  Mechanics'  Institute.   In  addition,  there  are 
16  appointed  Regents,  who  serve  16-year  terms. 

Nathan:     Right.   During  your  term  as  Regent,  didn't  you  serve 
on  some  important  committees?   I  am  thinking  par 
ticularly  about  the  Finance  and  Business  Management 
Committee. 

Witter:     Yes,  I  was  on  that  one  in  1945-46.  At  that  time, 
the  others  on  it  were  Mortimer  Fleishhacker,  James 
K.  Moffitt,  John  Francis  Neylan,  George  I.  Cochran, 
Sidney  M.  Ehrman,  A.  P.  Giannini,  and  Edward  A. 
Dickson.  The  two  gentlemen  they  relied  on  the  most 
were  Regents  Ehrman  and  Moffitt. 

Nathan:     What  were  some  of  your  other  committee  assignments? 

Witter:     In  1944-45,  I  was  on  the  Audit  Committee,  and  the 

Development  and  Endowments  Committee.   Audit  included 
George  U.  Hind,  Fred  Moyer  Jordan,  Walter  F.  Dexter, 
Brodie  E.  Ahlport,  and  A.  J.  McFadden.   Development 
had  George  I.  Cochran,  John  Francis  Neylan,  Frederick 


57. 


Witter:     W.  Roman,  and  Edwin  W.  Pauley.   Then  the  next  year 

I  went  on  the  Finance  Committee.   In  addition,  there 
was  the  Dormitory  Committee,  [not  a  standing  committee] 
and  I  was  chairman  of  that  one. 


Campus  Residence  Halls 


Nathan:     Let's  talk  about  the  Dormitory  Committee.  You  know 
there  have  been  conversations  about  the  need  for  on- 
campus  dormitories  from  1911  on,  but  nothing 
much  really  developed  until  you  were  Alumni  Council 
President. 

Witter:     I'm  sure  the  Alumni  Association  must  have  a  file  on 
this  dormitory  business,  because  I  used  to  report 
to  them  all  the  time  on  it. 

Nathan:     Of  course.   I'll  go  down  to  Alumni  House  and  see 

what  they  can  show  me.   If  it's  all  right  with  you, 
I'll  mention  that  this  was  your  suggestion.   It's 
a  good  one.   Had  you  been  interested  in  the  dormitory 
question  for  a  long  time? 

Witter:     No,  not  until  I  was  invited  onto  the  Alumni  Council 
and  then  became  president.   The  council  had  been  in 
terested  in  dormitories,  and  other  presidents  before 
me  had  worked  hard  to  try  to  develop  a  ^rogram  for 
dormitories . 

Nathan:     What  stood  in  the  way?  What  was  the  problem? 

Witter:     For  many  years,  it  was  against  the  University's 

policy  and  custom  to  provide  dormitories.   In  19*45, 
the  University  had  some  property  over  in  Berkeley, 
the  Smyth-Fernwald  property.   [Mr.  Smyth  gave  his 
property  the  name  "Fernwald" . ]   At  that  time,  there 
were  many  young  ladies,  several  hundred  of  them, 
who  had  no  place  to  live  anywhere  around  the  campus. 
The  accommodations  in  private  homes  and  boarding 
houses  apparently  weren't  available  then,  because 
those  engaged  in  the  war  effort  had  taken  most  of 
them.   There  was  a  big  demand  among  these  girls  who 
wanted  to  come  to  college,  but  they  had  no  place  to 
stay. 

The  University  had  the  property,  and  it  did  have  some 
funds  that  could  be  used  for  the  purpose.   Therefore, 
many  people  felt  that  the  University  should  build 
dormitories.   The  Dormitory  Committee  of  the  Regents 
favored  proceeding  with  a  dormitory  on  the  Smyth- 


58. 


Witter:     Fernwald  property.   Mr.  William  Norton  was  business 
manager  at  the  University;  he  learned  that  materials 
could  be  obtained,  and  that  the  Dinwiddie  Construction 
Company  would  do  the  job  for  a  reasonable  fee.   The 
Dormitory  Committee  recommended  that  we  proceed  to 
build. 


Regents  Pro  and  Con 


Witter:     There  was  great  objection.   I  remember  Mr.  Neylan 
was  a  little  impatient  with  me,  because  it  had 
always  been  the  University's  policy  to  use  the 
funds  of  the  University  TSO  employ  professors  and 
teachers,  and  to  provide  buildings  in  which  they 
could  teach,  and  not  to  provide  dormitories  for  boys 
or  girls.  The  great  demand  was  pointed  out,  and 
it  was  shown  that  the  dormitories  could  be  financed, 
and  fees  could  be  charged  that  would  cover  interest 
and  amortization,  so  as  to  pay  for  the  cost  of  upkeep, 
Over  the  years,  the  University's  credit  could  be 
used,  and  housing  could  be  provided. 

Many  of  the  Regents  in  San  Francisco  were  very  much 
opposed.   I'm  sure  that  Jack  Neylan,  Maurice  E. 
Harrison,  James  K.  Moffitt  and  others  were  against 
it. 

I  talked  with  Ed  Pauley,  whom  I  knew  quite  well, 
and  told  him  how  important  our  committee  felt  these 
dormitories  were  at  this  time  for  the  University, 
how  the  young  ladies  could  be  accommodated,  and  that 
they  could  come  to  college  if  we  built.   Dormitories 
could  be  built  by  the  time  college  opened  in  the 
fall,  and  I  thought  that  if  he  was  in  favor  of  it, 
the  other  Regents  from  the  south  might  be  too.   He 
got  behind  it;  the  southern  Regents  voted  for  it, 
and  they  outvoted  the  objectors.   They  proceeded 
to  build  Fernwald,  and  that  marked  the  change  in 
the  University's  policy  toward  dormitories.   Of 
course,  if  you  are  going  to  have  dormitories  in 
Berkeley,  then  you  are  going  to  have  dormitories  in 
Los  Angeles,  and  you're  going  to  have  them  in  Davis 
and  Santa  Barbara  and  other  places,  and  it's  going 
to  cost  money.   But  time  has  gone  on,  and  Smyth- 
Fernwald  has  proved  very  successful. 

Now,  25  years  later,  the  University  sells  California 
Dormitory  Bonds  to  the  public,  and  gets  the  money 
tax-free.  The  University  has  used  millions  to  build 


59. 


Witter:     all  those  new,  big  dormitory  buildings  in  Berkeley, 
and  similar  ones  in  Los  Angeles  and  Santa  Barbara 
and  Davis.   Students  are  charged  rates  which  amortize 
costs  and  pay  the  interest.   All  it  costs  the 
University  is  their  credit  that  they  have  extended 
for  the  purpose.   I  think  this  is  a  good  idea,  and 
I  think  the  public  likes  it  today.   I  guess  all 
the  Regents  like  it  today,  also. 

Nathan:     Were  the  Smyth-Fernwald  dormitories  built  from  war 
surplus  materials? 

Witter:     I  only  knew  that  materials  were  available  from  some 
where,  and  that  the  Dinwiddie  Company  knew  about  them. 
We  knew  the  Dinwiddie  people  very  well;  the  Regents 
knew  them,  William  Norton  and  I  knew  them.   They 
got  busy  and  located  enough  material  to  be  able  to 
build  the  dormitories. 

Nathan:     There  was  an  episode  I  wanted  to  ask  you  about.   It 
was  the  occasion  on  May  3,  19^5  when  you  came  to  the 
campus  to  speak  to  the  Student  Housing  Committee, 
at  the  request  of  Russell  Kletzins,  a  student.   The 
students  were  becoming  very  much  concerned  about 
housing  and  very  agitated,  because  nothing  had 
developed  over  a  long  period  of  time.   They  wanted 
a  member  of  the  Alumni  Council  to  come  to  the  meeting. 
It  was  reported  that,  in  essence,  you  told  them  to 
relax  because  something  was  likely  to  happen  soon, 
and  please  not  to  rock  the  boat  at  this  point. 

Witter:     I  remember  that  only  faintly,  but  I  think  that's 

essentially  correct.   It  was  25  years  ago.   I  remember 
that  when  the  crisis  came,  Monroe  Deutsch  was  very 
much  in  favor  of  the  dormitories.   At  that  particular 
time  Bob  Sproul  was  away. 

Nathan:     I'm  interested  to  hear  your  story,  because  there  are 
so  many  subsequent  versions. 

Witter:     What  are  some  of  the  other  versions? 

Nathan:     One  that  comes  to  mind  is  the  story  that  appeared 

in  the  Daily  Californian  many  years  later.   President 
Sproul  was  represented  as  having  led  the  fight  for 
the  dormitories,  although  that  would  not  have 
accorded  with  his  many  previous  statements  on  the 
question. 


Witter: 


Well,  give  him  the  credit. 


60 


Nathan:     Probably  no  one  really  minds,  but  it  is  worth  while 
to  hear  about  events  from  someone  who  was  actually 
there.   In  the  process  of  planning  the  dormitories, 
was  Walter  Ratcliff  the  principal  architect? 

Witter:     I  think  so.   He  was  on  the  Alumni  Council.   He's 
an  older  man,  a  nice  fellow.   He  had  an  office 
in  Berkeley.   I  remember  he  had  been  on  some  building 
and  loan  association  board  over  there,  and  I  wouldn't 
be  a  bit  surprised  but  what  we  thought  he'd  be 
a  good  man  to  do  it.   He  was  on  the  council,  and 
knew  about  the  plan.   The  council  had  a  great 
deal  to  do  with  the  dormitory  program,  backing 
it  all  the  time.   Also  Bob  Sibley,  then  Executive 
Manager  of  the  Alumni  Association,  should  be  given 
credit  for  his  support  of  the  idea. 


The  Student  Union  and  Alumni  House 


Witter:     I  hear  that  somebody  else  has  been  given  credit  for 
the  Student  Union  on  the  Berkeley  campus.   From  what 
I  know  about  it  (it  was  discussed  while  I  was  on 
the  Alumni  Council),  when  I  was  council  president, 
it  was  Bob  Sibley  who  constantly  pressed  for  a 
building,  and  alumni  quarters  where  people  could 
gather.  The  original  thought  was  even  to  have  sleeping 
quarters  where  alumni  could  come  and  live  in  the 
Student  Union  building. 

Nathan:     That  is  interesting.   As  it  developed,  there  are 

now  two  buildings:  one  is  the  Alumni  House,  and  one 
is  the  Student  Union. 

Witter:     This  whole  discussion  went  on  for  years,  and  after 
a  while,  the  Alumni  Association  settled  for  the 
Alumni  House.   Then  again  they  kept  after  it,  and 
now  there  is  a  beautiful,  wonderful  Student  Union 
building.   But  that  effort  went  on  for  years.   I 
think  the  original  wish  was  for  both  Alumni  House 
and  the  Student  Union,  and  the  effort  to  achieve 
that  came  very  largely  from  Bob  Sibley,  who  carried 
on  the  discussion  year  after  year  with  the  council. 
Probably  somebody  else  has  been  given  credit,  but 
my  feeling  is  that  it  should  be  given  to  Bob  Sibley. 


Nathan: 


Southern  Regents  and  Student  Housing 
It  is  fascinating  to  hear  the  way  different  projects 


61. 


Nathan:     developed.  When  you  were  working  for  the  approval 
of  dormitories,  how  did  you  account  for  the  reluc 
tance  of  the  northern  Regents  and  the  enthusiasm 
of  the  southern  Regents? 

Witter:     The  southern  Regents  are  newer  on  the  board,  and 
I  think  they've  always  been  more  promotional  and 
open-minded  about  everything  down  south.   I  think 
they're  not  as  conservative  in  the  south  as  they  are 
in  the  north.   Mr.  Neylan  and  Mr.  Moffitt  were  very 
influential  Regents,  and  I  suspect  that  Mr.  Harrison, 
who  greatly  admired  them  both,  went  along  with 
their  point  of  view.  I  know  that  those  three  were 
against  the  dormitory  project.   I  am  very  fond  of 
Mr.  Ehrman.   He  is  still  alive,  and  he  was  on  our 
committee.   He  voted  with  us,  but  I  think  maybe 
he  had  a  little  give  and  take  with  his  friends, 
Moffitt,  Neylan  and  the  others  about  whether  it 
was  a  good  idea.   I  can't  remember  definitely,  but 
I  just  have  that  feeling. 

Now  I  have  a  feeling  that  Mr.  Pauley  and  the  other 
southern  Regents  liked  the  idea  of  dormitories,  and 
I  think  they  liked  the  idea  of  having  them  for 
UCLA.   There  has  always  been  a  very  strong  primary 
feeling  in  the  southerners  for  UCLA,  and  maybe  a 
little  of  the  same  for  Berkeley  in  the  Regents  in 
the  north.  And  there  have  been  different  points 
of  view  expressed  over  the  years  between  the  north 
and  the  south,  I  think. 

Nathan:     Perhaps  the  south  has  had  to  push  harder  to  get  what 
they  needed.   How  did  you  manage  not  to  be  influenced 
by  the  big  guns  of  the  north  when  you  were  in  office? 

Witter:     Well,  I  knew  them  all  very  well.  I  did  business 
with  Jack  Neylan  for  years,  and  with  Mr.  Moffitt, 
and  I  knew  Mr.  Harrison.   But  there  was  no  reason 
why  you  shouldn't  stand  for  what  you  want,  and  think 
is  right.  A  great  many  good  people  wanted  to  go 
ahead  and  build  dormitories:  this  committee  for  one, 
the  Alumni  Association  for  another,  Dr.  Deutsch  very 
strongly,  and  some  of  the  other  professors. 

Nathan:  Were  you  fully  aware  of  the  interest  of  the  Dean 
of  Women's  office,  or  that  of  the  students?  Did 
they  make  their  opinions  known  to  you? 

Witter:     I  am  sure  I  must  have  been  aware  of  them,  but  I 
don't  recollect  the  details  now.   I'm  sure  the 
Dean  of  Women  thought  it  was  a  good  idea,  and  I'm 


62. 


Witter:     sure  they  had  student  committees  that  wanted  a 

dormitory  program.  We  told  them  we  were  going  to 
do  everything  we  could  to  get  it,  and  we  did. 

I  recall  that  the  first  dormitories  were  completed 
in  19^6.   I  understand  now  that  there  are  about 
400  men  and  75  women  in  Smyth-Fernwald. 

Nathan:     I  did  want  to  thank  you  for  suggesting  that  I  go 
down  to  Alumni  House  to  look  into  the  old  minutes 
of  the  Alumni  Council,  and  whatever  records  there 
that  are  still  available.  There  were  some  items 
that  might  Jog  your  memory  a  bit,  if  you  would  like 
to  hear  them. 

Witter:     Yes.   Let's  go  ahead. 

Nathan:     In  January  19^5,  Dick  Bond,  who  was  ASUC  president, 
apparently  came  to  visit  a  meeting  of  the  Alumni 
Council.   He  thanked  Lawrence  Livingston  for  working 
on  plans  for  a  Little  Theatre,  but  said  that  the 
dorms  were  needed  much  more  urgently.  You  were 
quoted  as  saying  that  during  the  next  year  or  so 
you  thought  that  the  dormitory  plans  might  very 
well  work  out. 

Then  there  was  a  financial  item  in  the  Alumni  Council 
statement.   This  was  for  December  31*  19^4.   Under 
investments,  there  was  a  figure  for  "Dormitory 
Funds."   But  in  19^3*  there  was  no  item  for  dor 
mitory  funds .  Was  the  December  19^  item  a  beginning? 

Witter:     I'm  not  sure,  but  that  sounds  as  though  it  could 

have  been  an  item  set  aside  for  the  promotion  of  the 
idea.   I'm  sure  that  having  a  student  come  to  the 
council  meeting  was  useful  in  showing  student 
interest. 

Milberry  Union,  San  Francisco 

Nathan:     Do  you  at  all  remember  meeting  with  Dean  Fleming, 
who  was  then  Dean  of  the  College  of  Dentistry? 

Witter:     Yes.   He  used  to  come  to  council  meetings.   I 

remember  him  very  well,  and  pleasantly.   I  remember 
one  time  we  went  over  to  his  dental  school,  with 
several  members  of  the  council. 

Nathan:     Could  that  visit  have  been  connected  with  early 

plans  for  the  Milberry  Union  at  the  San  Francisco 
campus? 


63. 


Witter:     Yes,  it  was.   I  remember  that  very  well.  The  council 
was  sympathetic  to  the  building  of  that  Student 
Union  over  in  San  Francisco,  and  was  as  helpful 
as  it  could  be.   But,  as  I  recall,  it  was  financed 
and  handled  pretty  much  by  the  people  over  at  the 
hospital. 

Nathan:     Apparently  that's  right.   It  was  mentioned  that  the 
University  Medical  Center  store  had  set  aside 
$70,000  for  a  student  union. 

Witter:     Yes.   That  store  had  been  successful  and  had  saved 
some  of  its  money.   I  don't  think  the  council  had 
too  much  to  do  with  that  development.   Most  of  the 
work  was  done  by  the  people  on  that  campus .  There 
was  a  Doctor  George  E.  Steninger  who  was  very  active 
and  very  good.   He  was  most  capable  and  energetic 
in  developing  the  Milberry  Union  project.   He's 
a  member  of  the  Bohemian  Club,  and  I  see  him  quite 
often. 

Nathan:     During  the  time  you  were  president  of  the  Alumni 

Council,  it  was  noted  that  you  appointed  a  committee, 
with  Herman  Phleger  as  chairman,  to  gather  information 
and  report  back  to  the  council  on  the  feasibility 
of  and  need  for  dormitories  and  student  buildings 
on  various  campuses.   Apparently  they  did  a  fine 
Job.  You  might  recall  some  of  the  names  of  the 
committee  members.   Mr.  Phleger  was  chairman;  then 
there  was  Mr.  Livingston- 
Witter:     Was  Hill  on  it? 
Nathan:     Yes. 

Witter:     and  Dr.  Deamer.   I  remember  him  very  well,  and  Dr. 

Fleming.   This  committee  considered  buildings  at  the 
hospital  in  San  Francisco. 

Nathan:     Yes,  for  all  campuses.   Apparently  it  was  a  sort 
of  general  dormitory  investigation  committee. 
Although  Dr.  Fleming  sat  on  the  committee,  con 
sideration  was  not  directed  solely  to  the  Milberry 
unit. 

Witter:     I  assume  that  their  report  must  be  over  there 

at  Alumni  House  with  our  council  minutes.  Undoubtedly 
it  fully  supported  the  council's  wish  to  proceed 
with  dormitory  building. 


Nathan: 


Yes,  indeed,  it  did,  although  it  did  not  assign 


64. 


Nathan:     priorities. 

Witter:     In  principle,  it  was  favorable  to  the  University's 
undertaking  the  building  of  dormitories. 

Nathan:     Yes.  Very  much  so.   It  was  a  good  strong  report. 

Witter:     Do  you  wish  to  quote  anything  from  that  report 
here? 

Nathan:     That's  a  good  idea.   It  says,  "Herman  Phleger, 

as  chairman  of  the  committee,  reported  to  the  council, 
the  Board  of  Regents,  to  the  President  of  the  Univer 
sity,  and  to  all  other  interested  parties,  that 
facilities  were  urgently  needed,  both  Student 
Unions  and  housing,  at  the  San  Francisco  Medical 
Center  and  other  campuses  as  well.   He  further  said 
that  the  committee  would  not  discuss  priorities 
or  financial  feasibility,  just  need." 

Witter:     That  might  provide  support  for  a  unified  front  in 
going  to  the  Board  of  Regents. 

Nathan:     Yes,  apparently  it  did.   There  is  a  note  that  you 
backed  the  committee  report . 

Witter:     Yes.   In  turn,  I  had  their  backing  to  proceed,  as 
the  president  of  the  Alumni  Association  sitting  on 
the  Board  of  Regents,  to  try  to  put  that  idea  over. 
We  did  it. 

Nathan:     In  this  way,  then,  you  were  able  to  use  the  influence 
of  Alumni  Council  opinion  to  help  you  with  the 
Board  of  Regents . 

Witter:     That's  right.  Without  that  support  I  could  do 

nothing.   I  was  representing  the  Alumni  Association. 
And  through  this  committee,  the  Alumni  Association 
as  a  body  showed  that  they  all  wanted  the  University 
to  change  its  policy  and  to  build  dormitories. 

Funds  for  Residence  Halls 

Nathan:     I  came  across  the  statement  that  during  your  term 
as  Regent,  the  Regents  were  generally  beginning  to 
accept  the  idea  of  building  dormitories,  but  with 
funds  other  than  those  supplied  by  the  state.   Does 
that  sound  familiar  at  all? 

Witter:     I  think  that  at  first  the  Regents  did  use  funds 

that  had  been  given  to  the  University  from  various 
sources.   I  remember  that  for  some  time  the  Regents 


65. 


Uittar 


Hathan: 


V.'itter; 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


Nathan: 


V'itter: 
Nathan: 


had  been  willing  to  accept  gifts  to  be  used  for  the 
building  of  dormitories.   Of  course,  the  first  dormitory 
I  knew  anything  about  was  Smyth-Fernwald;  I  think 
that  the  funds  for  that  dormitory  came  primarily 
from  gift  sources. 


So  in  October,  19^5>  there  was  a  statement  that  the 
Regents  voted  to  go  ahead  with  the  construction  of 
dormitories  at  Berkeley  and  UCLA.  There  was  the 
sum  of  $750,000  allocated  for  Berkeley,  and  a  like 
amount  for  UCLA.   As  far  as  funds  from  the  state 
of  California  are  concerned,  would  you  like  to  tal> 
a  bit  about  the  work  of  James  Corley,  who  was  watching 
developments  at  the  legislature? 

I  think  Jim  Corley  did  a  wonderful  job  for  the 
University  of  California  all  the  time  he  was  there. 
I  always  thought  his  job  was  that  of  buffer,  or 
entrepreneur,  between  the  University  of  California 
and  the  legislators.   Each  two  year  perioJ  it  v;a;; 
•.^eoessary  to  get  the  legislature  to  set  aside  a 
certain  amount  of  money  for  the  University  of 
California.   It  was  his  job  tc  prove  the  University's 
needs  to  the  legislators,  and  to  get  as  much  as  he 
could  to  meet  those  needs.   I  think  his  title  In 
that  position  was  financial  vice-president. 

Was  he  also  an  officer  of  the  Alumni  Council? 

I  think  he  was  treasurer  of  the  council.   He  was 
the  representative  of  the  University  on  the  council, 
but  without  any  title.   He  knew  the  University's 
problems  and  he  knew  what  the  Alumni  Association 
was  endeavoring  to  do.   He  always  cooperated  in 
bringing  the  two  together.   He  was  a  very  good 
council  member,  and  I  thought  he  was  also  an  ex 
cellent  financial  man  and  public  relations  man  at 
Sacramento  for  the  University.   He  was  sympathetic 
to  the  dormitory  idea,  as  were  all  the  other  council 
members  . 

At  one  time  it  appeared  that  there  might  be  some 
difficulty  in  getting  allocations  from  the  legis 
lature.   Mr.  Corley  suggested  that  alumni  throughout 
the  state  might  organize  to  put  the  University's 
case  more  strongly. 

And  appeal  to  the  legislators  by  letter  ^nd  voice. 

That  was  the  idea.   And  do  you  remember  when  some 
legislators  were  brought  to  the  campuses  so  that  they 
could  get  acquainted  with  the  campuses  and  the  alumni? 


66. 


Witter:     Yes,  they  did  that.   I  remember  going  with  some  of 

the  legislators  to  the  University  Campus  at  Berkeley 
and  visiting  different  departments.   I  remember 
Dr.  Morgan.   Do  you  know  that  name? 

Nathan:      A  woman?   That  could  be  Dr.  Agnes  Fay  Morgan,  who 
had  several  titles,  and  worked  in  the  field  of 
nutrition.   She  was  a  Professor  of  Home  Economics 
and  Chairman  of  the  department,  and  also  a  biochemist 
at  the  Agricultural  Experiment  Station  in  Berkeley. 

Witter:      I  remember  what  a  splendid  presentation  she  put 

on  for  the  legislators  and  for  the  members  of  the 
Board  of  Regents  who  were  in  attendance  that  day. 
It's  a  long  time  ago,  but  I  remember  she  brought 
in  some  rats  that  hadn't  had  proper  vitamins. 
Then  she  brought  in  some  other  rats  that  had  been 
noui'ished  correctly,  and  they  were  nice  fat  rata. 
I  think  she  did  the  same  thing  with  rabbits,  and 
dogs,  too.   The  purpose,  of  course,  was  to  demonstrate 
what  was  being  learned  about  nutrition.   She  was 
very  clever,  and  I'm  sure  the  legislators  were  very 
much  impressed.   Later,  we  had  a  big  cocktail  party 
up  at  the  Claremont  Hotel.   I  remember  visiting  with 
Dr.  Morgan  and  one  or  two  of  her  associates,  and 
telling  her  that  I  expected  that  people  took 
vitamins  to  do  for  them  the  same  things  as  the 
vitamins  did  for  the  animals.   She  said  that  was 
certainly  the  case,  and  told  me  about  certain 
items  that  people  should  take.   Riboflavin  was  one 
of  them;  I've  been  taking  some  ever  since.   [Laughter] 

Nathan:     I  hope  the  legislators  remembered  also. 

Witter:      I  assume  that  they  were  impressed.   Mr.  Cor ley 

obtained  his  objectives.   As  I  recall,  it  was  the 
Alumni  Association  that  sponsored  the  event. 

Nathan:     It  sounds  as  though  the  whole  thing  was  very  well 
done . 

_An_  Option  on  the  Wilson  Property 

Nathan:     Could  I  ask  you  now  about  something  that  was  re 
ported  in  June  of  19^5?  As  I  understand  it,  it  waj 
reported  to  the  Alumni  Council  that  you  had  taken 
a  90-day  option  on  a  piece  of  property  north  of  the 
cyclotron  in  the  Berkeley  hills.   Do  I  have 
that  straight? 


Witter: 


No,  not  quite.   I  didn't  take  an  option  myself. 


67. 


Witter:     The  University  needed  more  area,  more  territory. 
About  the  only  place  for  expansion  was  up  in  the 
hills  in  back  of  the  campus.  A  committee  of  the 
Board  of  Regents  was  appointed  to  look  into  this 
property,  the  Wilson  property.   I  was  a  member  of 
the  committee,  but  I  don't  remember  that  we  took 
an  option,  although  we  did  seriously  consider  ac 
quiring  that  property.   I  knew  Mr.  Wilson  quite 
well,  and  had  various  conversations  with  him.   Rut 
the  majority  of  the  committee  didn't  feel  that  the 
University  should  acquire  it.   I  don't  know  how 
long  it  was,  but  some  years  later  the  University 
did  acquire  the  property.   They  now  have  buildings 
all  over  that  land,  but  they  didn't  wish  to  buy  it 
at  the  time  the  committee  served.   I  thought  it 
was  a  wonderful  idea,  but  the  majority  of  the  comir.ittee 
members  didn't. 

Nathan:     It  was  quite  a  sizeable  piece  of  land,  y712  acres. 
Witter:     It  was  quite  a  big  area. 

Nathan:     When  you  take  out  an  option,  and  then  determine 
not  to  buy,  are  any  funds  involved? 

Witter:     When  they  took  this  option,  they  didn't  make  any 
payment  for  it.   The  owner,  Mr.  Wilson,  said  that 
he  would  sell  at  a  certain  figure  if  the  Univer 
sity  wished  to  buy  the  property.   The  University  then 
had  first  call  on  it  for  a  certain  period  of  ti:ne. 
Then,  they  chose  not  to  exercise  the  option. 

Nathan:     Was  there  any  connection  between  the  examination  of 
the  Wilson  property  and  the  decision  to  go  ahead 
and  build  at  Smyth-Fernwald? 

Witter:     I  don't  think  there  was  any  connection  there. 

Nathan:      I  wondered,  because  the  activity  about  the  Wilson 
property  seemed  to  forecast  action  on  dormitories. 
The  Wilson  negotiations  were  the  first  overt  act 
after  more  than  30  years  of  conversation. 

A_  Share  o_f  the  Credit 

Nathan:     It  was  Mr.  Norton  who  made  a  beautiful  little  speech 
about  you  to  the  Alumni  Council,  saying  that  your 
foresight  and  your  leadership  had  made  the  dormitory 
project  come  true. 


Witter; 


He  was  very  generous.   Many  people  worked  on  this, 


68. 


Witter:     and  it  just  happened  that  it  could  develop  during 
my  administration.   I  mentioned  earlier  that  it 
could  not  have  happened  if  the  southern  California 
Regents  had  not  consolidated  their  power  and  voted 
favorably,  so  that  the  objectors  were  outvoted. 

Nathan:     Yes,  but  it's  something  to  know  how  and  when  to 
mobilize. 


Alumni  Association  Activities  and  Views 


Nathan:     When  you  resumed  your  interest  in  TJniversity  activities, 
through  the  Alumni  Council,  were  you  still  very 
much  interested  in  the  athletic  program  of  the 
University? 

Witter:     Ves,  very  much  so,  but  I  don't  think  the  Alumni 

association  as  such  devotes  much  time  to  the  athletics 
program.   I  do  think  athletics  stimulate  many  of  the 
alumni  all  over  the  state  to  maintain  an  interest 
in  the  University  as  a  whole,  and  in  the  Alumni 
Association.   But  the  Alumni  Association  has  committees 
that  act  on  different  subjects,  and  has  a  program 
to  follow.   Many  visits  are  made;  somebody  from  the 
alumni  magazine,  or  maybe  the  president  of  the 
University  makes  visits  to  different  cities  and  meets 
the  alumni,  which  is  a  good  thing.   Each  year  there 
is  a  Charter  Day  Banquet,  and  that  is  a  big  affair 
run  by  the  association  and  handled  by  comnittees 
that  work  on  it  for  a  long  time. 

Nathan:     Have  you  gone  to  the  banquets? 

Witter:     Oh,  many  of  them.   When  I  was  president,  over  20 
years  ago,  I  had  to  conduct  them.   I  went  to  some 
when  I  was  on  the  Alumni  Council,  and  then  I  went 
to  one  or  two  after  I  was  president,  but  I  haven't  been 
to  very  many  since. 


69. 


U.C.  PRESIDENTS  AND  CHANCELLORS 


Nathan:     When  you  were  on  the  Alumni  Council,  did  you  feel 
that  you  should  function  as  a  sort  of  advocate  for 
the  University,  to  support  its  interests? 

Witter:      My,  yes,  and  I  think  that  the  Alumni  Council  is 
devoted  to  the  welfare  of  the  University.   They 
work  for  the  University,  never  against  it,  to  my 
knowledge.   Did  you  have  some  reason  for  asking 
that  question? 

Nathan:     I  was  thinking  about  the  times  when  the  University 
has  been  in  some  trouble  as  it  has  been,  in  some 
respects,  during  the  past  few  years. 

Witter:     Yes,  I  see.   Sometimes  some  University  officials 
do  things  that  the  alumni  do  not  approve  of.   A 
good  example  of  that  was  when  Dr.  Strong  was  Chancellor 
at  Berkeley;  he  and  Miss  Towle  determined  that  they 
weren't  going  to  have  these  off -campus  people  and 
some  of  the  campus  people  holding  meetings  in  violation 
of  rules  which  had  been  established.   The  rules 
were  broken  and  they  took  action.   Then,  Dr.  Kerr 
returned  from  a  trip  and  reversed  them.   This 
resulted  in  Dr.  Strong's  being  demoted,  and  Miss 
Towle  retired  shortly  thereafter,  and  the  alumni 
that  I  know  didn't  like  that,  at  all. 

That  was  the  start,  in  my  opinion,  of  all  the  serious 
trouble  we've  had  over  there.   Since  then  a  small 
disturbing  element  has  run  wild.   At  any  rate,  it 
has  calmed  down  now.   It  caused  much  concern  amon^; 
the  alumni  of  the  University,  particularly  down  south. 
After  Mr.  Reagan  was  elected  Governor,  much  pressure 
was  brought  upon  him  and  the  Board  of  Regents  by 
the  alumni  and  the  public  to  demote  President  Kerr-. 
I  think  the  Strong-Towle  incident  was  one  of  the 
compelling  reasons  for  it. 


Chancellor  Heyns 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


Have  you  had  an  opportunity  to  n:eet  Chancellor  Hoyris? 

I  have,  and  I  like  him  very  much.   I  think  he  has 
be-.n  a  very  patient  man  and  d^ne  good  work  with  the 
faculty,  with  the  alumni,  with  the  Rogento,  with 
the  students  and  with  the  public. 


70- 


Witter:     I  think  that  he  has  tightened  the  strings  gradually, 
until  there's  less  trouble  over  there  now.   That's 
what  I  observe. 

Nathan:     You  have  probably  seen  or  met  most  of  the  presidents 
of  the  University,  too. 

Witter:     I  knew  Benjamin  Ide  Wheeler,  he  was  the  first  one 

I  knew.   Then  there  were  Dr.  David  Prescott  Barrows, 
and  Dr.  William  Wallace  Campbell,  whom  I  knew  slightly 
I  knew  Bob  Sproul,  and  following  Bob  Sproul,  Dr. 
Clark  Kerr.   I've  known  them  all  since  1912. 

President  Wheeler 

Nathan:     How  did  you,  as  an  undergraduate,  get  to  know 
President  Wheeler? 

Witter:     Well,  President  Wheeler  used  to  conduct  University 
meetings;  and  one  time,  he  came  to  the  Zeta  Psi 
House  to  have  dinner  with  us.   I  remember  him  very 
well,  but  there  is  no  question  that  I  knew  him 
a  lot  better  than  he  knew  me.   Then  I  met  him  a 
few  other  places.  When  I  was  a  senior,  I  had 
lunch  at  the  president's  house. 

I  knew  Dr.  Barrows  well,  and  Bob  Sproul  very  well, 
and  I  knew  Dr.  Kerr  quite  well. 

President  Barrows 

Witter:     I  knew  Dr.  Barrows  for  a  long  time.   I  knew  him 
in  college  first,  where  I  took  some  courses  from 
him.   At  one  time  he  was  my  neighbor  in  Berkeley. 
I  saw  him  on  many  occasions  and  also  knew  his  wife 
and  children  well. 

Nathan:     He  was  on  record  as  having  suggested  a  scheme  for 
financing  residence  halls,  when  he  was  president 
of  the  University.  Were  you  aware  of  this? 

Witter:     No,  I  wasn't.   All  I  knew  was  that  there  had  been 

talk  about  residence  halls  and  dormitories  for  quite 
a  long  time . 

President  Kerr 

Nathan:     Thinking  of  the  different  ways  you  might  become 

acquainted  with  a  University  president,  I  wondered 
whether  you  got  to  know  President  Kerr  during  the 
time  he  was  involved  in  the  Institute  of  Industrial 


71. 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


Nat  hum: 
Witter: 


Relations? 

No,  I  didn't.   I  first  got  to  know  him  when  he  was 
chancellor,  and  I  was  on  the  Alumni  Association 
Council.   We  were  trying  very  hard  to  get  an  alumni 
building;  he  was  sympathetic,  quite  forceful,  and 
got  action.   I  think  he  helped  the  cause  along  quJte 
a  bit.   I  had  several  meetings  with  him,  and  liked 
him  very  much. 

He  was  an  expert  on  Industrial  Relations,  and  as 
a  mediator  between  capital  and  labor  enjoyed  a  fine 
reputation.   I  have  felt  that  he  tried  to  do  the 
same  thing  in  the  University,  tried  to  be  a  mediator 
and  let  people  have  too  much  rope.   I  don't  think 
that  was  a  good  idea. 

Do  you  think  that  possibly  different  approaches 
are  appropriate  in  different  fields? 

I  think  so.   I've  always  felt  that  the  Regents  were 
slow  in  acting  for  themselves,  and  tint  they  should 
have  established  a  set  of  rules  that  might  be  con 
curred  in  by  Dr.  Kerr  and  the  various  chancellors. 
At  any  rate,  I  thought  that  they  should  have  a 
pattern,  and  that  the  University  Regents  should 
approve  a  course  of  action  and  rules  which  would 
be  obeyed  by  students  attending  the  University  of 
California.   That  doesn't  curtail  their  freedom  too 
much.   There's  plenty  of  freedom.   There  are  certain 
rules  students  should  obey.   I  think  the  president 
should,  through  his  chancellors,  see  that  everybody 
knows  the  rules,  be  nice  and  friendly,  and  say, 
"Now  we  want  you  here,  but  you  have  to  obey  the  rul<vs 
or  you  can't  stay." 


72. 


EDUCATIONAL  AND  CIVIC  INTERESTS 


Nathan:     Before  we  leave  the  University  of  California  part 
of  the  conversation,  I  do  want  to  ask  you  about 
your  work  on  one  of  the  advisory  councils.   Then 
perhaps  we  can  move  on  to  some  of  your  other  educational 
and  civic  interests. 

Advisory  Council,  U.C.  Graduate  School  of  Business 

Administration 

Nathan:     How  did  you  become  interested  in  the  Advisory  Council 
for  the  Graduate  School  of  Business  Administration 
at  the  Berkeley  campus? 

Witter:     In  19^6  Dean  Ewald  Grether  told  me  that  he  was 

thinking  about  having  an  advisory  council  for  the 
business  school  at  Berkeley.   He  thought  it  would 
be  wise  to  have  on  it  men  from  different  vocations 
and  industries.   He  had  some  names  of  people  he  knew, 
and  he  asked  me  about  others,  so  I  helped  him  to 
develop  the  list.   He  drote  to  them  and  invited 
them  to  attend  maybe  two  or  three  meetings  a  year. 

Nathan:     And  did  you  serve  on  the  council  yourself? 

Witter:     I  was  on  the  council  representing  investment  banking 
and  brokerage  activities. 

James  B.  Black  was  the  President  of  Pacific  Gas 
&  Electric  and  he  represented  the  utilities.   Walter 
Haas,  Sr.  and  Edward  C.  Lipman  were  presidents  of 
their  respective  companies,  namely,  Levi  Strauss 
and  Co.  and  the  Emporium  Capwell  Company,  so  they 
represented  the  merchandising  industry.   Harry  Fair 
had  been  the  creator  of  the  Caterpillar  Tractor 
Company.   These  are  just  a  few  examples  to  show  the 
caliber  of  the  men  who  served  on  the  council. 

I  have  a  list  of  those  who  served  in  1963,  including 
myself.   There  was  Clark  Beise,  President  of  the 
Bank  of  America;  also  Ted  Petersen,  President  of 
Standard  Oil  of  California;  Frederick  Whitman, 
President  of  Western  Pacific;  Mark  Sullivan,  President 
of  the  Pacific  Telephone  &  Telegx-aph  Company. 
Reginald  Biggs  followed  Ned  Lipman  after  Lipman 's 
death.   Others  were  Paul  L.  Davis,  Loyall  McLaren, 
Judge  Roger  Traynor,  John  Simpson,  Kmniett  Solomon, 
the  President  of  Crocker-Anglo  National  Bank, 
Bray ton  Wilbur,  Howard  Willoughby.   All  were  fine, 


73. 


Witter:     outstanding,  capable  men—leaders  in  their  chosen 
fields,  who  had  much  to  contribute. 

Nathan:     Would  the  advisory  group  meet  with  faculty  people? 

Witter:     Yes.   The  meetings  were  usually  held  in  the  evening, 
which  followed  cocktails  and  dinner  at  The  Pacific 
Union  Club,  the  council  members  being  the  hosts. 
After  dinner  Dean  Grether  would  call  upon  the  faculty 
members  to  give  their  reports  on  activities  in 
their  respective  fields.   After  these  reports  there 
would  be  general  discussion^with  the  advisory 
council  people  presenting  often  a  more  practical 
point  of  view,  which,  I  am  sure,  were  both  helpful 
and  stimulating  to  the  professors. 

Nathan:      How  did  you  come  to  know  Dean  Grether  in  the  first 
place? 

Witter:      I  met  him  when  I  was  President  of  the  Alumni  Association. 

Nathan:      In  addition  to  the  other  things  you  have  done  for 

the  University,  haven't  you  also  contributed  financially, 
particularly  to  the  scholarship  fund? 

The  Jean  C..  Witter,  Jr.  Liberty  Scholarship  Fund 

Witter:     Yes.   Most  of  these  have  been  made  to  the  Jean 

C.  Witter,  Jr.  Liberty  Scholarship  Fund.   In  19^2 
we  lost  our  oldest  son.   He  was  an  ensign  in  our 
navy,  serving  as  assistant  navigator  on  the  cruiser, 
USS  San  Francisco.   Jean  was  one  of  the  many  who 
lost  their  lives  in  the  sea  battle  at  Guadalcanal 
November  thirteenth,  19^2.   Soon  after  his  death, 
Professor  Edwin  C.  Voorhies,  a  friend  of  Jean's 
and  also  of  mine,  established  the  Jean  C.  Witter, 
Jr.  Liberty  Scholarship  Fund.   He  made  the  first 
contribution,  which  was  followed  by  contributions 
from  other  friends.   I  have  contributed  to  it 
several  times. 

Nathan:     How  is  the  fund  administered? 

Witter:     By  the  Regents.   They  have  full  jurisdiction. 

However,  when  I  make  a  gift  to  the  University,  I 
have  it  ear-marked  and  added  to  the  scholarship 
account  created  in  memory  of  Jean.  The  income  from 
the  account  is  given  each  year  to  several  freshman 
boys,  which  helps  them  financially  to  get  started. 
It  is  not  a  very  large  amount --only  about  two 


74. 


Witter:     hundred  or  three  hundred  dollars  to  three  or  four 
deserving  boys,  but  it  has  helped  quite  a  number 
of  boys.   It  has  been  going  on  since  early  19^3-- 
twenty-five  years. 

Piedmont  Schools 

Nathan:     In  addition  to  the  University,  haven't  you  had  a 
long  interest  in  other  schools,  particularly  the 
Piedmont  schools,  and  Mills  College?   I  was  talking 
to  Jo   (Josephine)  Jepson  the  other  day.   She  is 
on  the  Piedmont  Board  of  Education;  she  mentioned 
Witter  Field  and  the  floodlights  there. 

Witter:     I  was  on  the  Piedmont  Board  of  Education  for  some 

12  years,  and  took  a  great  interest  in  the  schools, 
particularly  the  high  school  and  their  athletic 
teams.   It  happened  that  my  three  boys,  at  different 
times,  were  captain  of  the  football  team.   Jean  Jr., 
was  the  oldest  and  the  first  one.   Then  after  his 
death,  someone  suggested  that  they  ought  to  light  the 
Piedmont  football  field;  if  I  was  interested,  I 
might  make  a  memorial  of  it.   So  I  did  that.   I 
forget  how  much  it  was;  between  five  and  ten  thousand 
dollars. 

Nathan:     Apparently,  it  is  still  being  used  and  enjoyed  very 
much. 

Witter:     It's  still  used  each  year. 

Nathan:     Can  you  tell  me  a  little  about  the  Witter  Cup? 

Witter:     I  do  not  think  there  is  such  a  thing  as  the  "Witter 
Cup."  There  is  a  large  cup  called  the  "Football 
Optimo."  I  believe  there  is  a  "Basketball  Optimo" 
also,  but  it  was  the  Football  Optimo  that  all  three 
of  our  boys  won;  Jean,  Jr.  in  1937*  Bill  in  both 
1939  and  1940  and  Tom  in  1946.   It  is  a  very  large 
perpetual  cup  awarded  once  a  year  to  the  player 
excelling  in  "Skill-Scholarship-Sportmanship." 
That  is  the  inscription  on  the  cup,  and  each  year 
the  recipient's  name  is  added  to  the  names  of  the 
winners  of  the  preceding  years.  The  cup  remains 
at  school  with  the  other  school  trophies.   Naturally 
I  was  very  proud  of  the  fact  that  all  three  of  our 
sons  were  Optimo  Cup  winners.   In  fact,  I  had  replicas 
made  in  a  small  size  so  that  each  boy  could  have 
one  to  keep. 


75- 

Witter:     As  you  know,  we  live  in  Piedmont,  in  fact  we  built 
our  home  there  in  1930.  We  had  four  children; 
Jean,  Jr.;  Bill  (William  Maurer);  Nancy  and  Tom 
(Thomas),  all  of  whom  went  to  the  Piedmont  schools. 
The  three  boys  graduated  from  Piedmont  High.   My 
daughter,  however,  made  a  change  after  her  Junior 
High  and  went  to  Miss  [Anna]  Head's  (the  girls' 
school  in  Berkeley)  for  two  years  and  then  to 
Madera  School  near  Washington,  D.C.  for  her  last 
two  years  and  graduated  from  there. 

In  1935  I  was  asked  if  I  would  serve  on  the  school 
board  and  was  appointed  to  it  to  replace  someone 
who  had  retired.   I  was  very  much  interested  in 
Piedmont  schools;  first,  because  I  was  a  resident 
there,  and,  second,  because  our  children  were  attending 
Piedmont  schools.   I  guess  my  chief  interest  was 
in  the  high  school,  in  its  scholastic  program  and 
standing  and  in  its  aim  to  help  as  many  boys  and 
girls  go  to  college  as  possible.   They  were  anxious 
to  recommend  as  many  as  possible  for  college  and 
were  interested  in  the  average  student  as  well  as 
the  brilliant  one. 

As  I  said  before,  I  was  also  very  much  interested 
in  Piedmont  High  School's  athletic  program;  and 
largely  because  of  two  men,  Glenn  "Brick"  Johnson 
and  Jimmy  Hole,  that  program  was  excellent—really 
outstanding.   Glenn  Johnson  was  the  athletic  director 
and  football  coach  as  well.   He  had  a  wonderful 
way  with  boys --always  bringing  out  the  best;  and, 
in  fact,  he  was  a  real  inspiration  and  splendid 
leader.   He  was  assisted  by  Jimmie  Hole,  who  later 
succeeded  him  as  coach.  Under  their  leadership  the 
teams  had  a  very  successful  period  lasting  ten  years  — 
six  times  winning  the  Alameda  County  Athletic 
championship  and  coming  in  second  or  third  the 
other  years . 

As  I  say,  I  like  the  idea  of  helping  as  many  boys 
and  girls  as  possible  to  go  to  college,  if  they 
have  the  ability  to  stay  in.   They  don't  have  to 
be  A  students;  they  could  be  B  students,  or  C 
students,  and  as  long  as  they  went,  learned,  and 
graduated,  I  thought  it  was  a  success.   Anyway, 
Piedmont  was  more  liberal  than  lots  of  other  high 
schools,  and  it  can't  hurt  these  children  to  have 
a  fair  education,  if  they  are  not  capable  of  getting 
an  excellent  one.   Anybody  that  has  an  education, 
even  if  it  isn't  the  best,  I  think  has  an  advunta/1;,1 . 


Nathan:     In  their  athletic  activities,  were  your  boys  in 
the  120-pound  class  that  you  had  been  in? 

Witter:     No,  they  were  Just  like  any  other  boys.   There  were 
no  weight  limits  on  the  boys  who  played  basketball 
or  football  in  the  high  school. 

Nathan:     Did  you  start  them  out  young  on  their  athletic 
interests? 

Witter:     I  encouraged  them  all  the  time.   I  think  athletics 
are  a  fine  thing  for  growing  boys  and  girls .   I 
think  it  builds  competitive  spirit,  character,  and 
the  ability  to  get  along  with  others.   It  keeps 
them  buoyant,  and  helps  to  keep  them  out  of  trouble. 
I  think  that's  part  of  their  education. 

Nathan:     When  you  were  active  on  the  Piedmont  School  Board, 
did  you  become  involved  in  problems  of  finance? 
Did  the  district  have  to  float  bond  issues  from  time 
to  time? 

Witter:     In  those  days  the  federal  government  was  assisting 
school  districts  in  building  new  buildings  in  which 
to  teach.   There  were  some  people  in  Piedmont  who 
thought  that  the  Piedmont  School  District  should 
not  take  any  government  money  for  this  purpose. 
The  school  board  didn't  agree  with  them,  and  it 
accepted  money  from  the  federal  government,  and 
several  additions  to  schools  were  made.   The  Havens 
School  and  the  Beach  School  were  rebuilt.   The 
Wildwood  School  and  the  high  school  were  enlarged. 
The  three  grammar  schools  in  the  Piedmont  School 
District,  and  the  high  school  were  greatly  benefitted 
by  the  building  program. 

The  school  board  had  jurisdiction  over  the  high  school 
and  the  grammar  schools  and  we  were  interested  in 
all  of  them.   My  children  all  graduated  from  Havens 
Grammar  School,  and  my  three  boys  from  the  high 
school,  during  the  period  I  served  on  the  school 
board.   I  resigned  when  my  youngest  son  graduated 
from  high  school;  I  felt  that  I  had  been  on  the 
board  for  a  long  time,  and  that  someone  else  should 
take  my  place. 

Nathan:     You  must  have  been  re-elected  to  office,  during 
this  period. 

Witter:     Every  four  years,  I  would  stand  for  election.   I 

resigned  in  the  middle  of  ray  last  term,  and  someone 


77. 

Witter:     else  was  appointed  in  my  place. 
Nathan:     Was  this  the  usual  means  of  succession? 

Witter:     I  think  that  it  was  the  policy  of  the  school  board 
to  do  that:  appoint  someone  in  the  middle  of  a 
term  rather  than  wait  for  an  election  period,  so 
that  the  new  incumbent  would  have  a  chance  to  knov. 
something  about  his  Job  and  be  familiar  to  the 
public. 

?;;.rhan:     What  do  you  recall  as  being  the  major  issue  you  hao 
to  deal  with  on  the  school  board? 

Witter:     Our  problem  was  the  growth  in  numbers  of  school 

children,  and  the  lack  of  rooms  in  which  to  teach 
them.   Throughout  my  experience  on  the  school  board, 
we  were  constantly  making  additions  or  building 
new  schools. 

Nathan:      Did  you  have  the  same  superintendent  during  the 
whole  period? 

Witter:  We  had  Mr.  Harry  Jones  as  superintendent  most  of 
my  tenure;  the  last  year  or  two  he  was  succeeded 
by  Mr.  Theodore  L.  Eystrom,  who  is  stl.ll  there. 


Mills  College 


Nathan:     Your  family  ties  certainly  gave  you  ample  connections 
with  the  Piedmont  schools.   Now,  how  did  you  oeco.nc 
a  trustee  of  Mills  College? 

Witter:     As  you  know,  in  a  school  like  Mills,  there  is  a 
Board  of  Trustees.   Each  member  i^  elected  to 
serve  five  years,  and  is  subject  to  reappointinent 
for  another  five  years.   Apparently  I  had  some 
friends  and  acquaintances  on  the  Mills  board  v.ho 
thought  that  I  might  be  helpful  to  them  as  a  Trustee. 
There  is  a  nominating  committee,  which  must  have 
recommended  me  to  the  board;  the  board  in  turn 
invited  me  to  be  a  Trustee.   That  is  the  general 
procedure,  which  I  learned  after  I  became  a  Ti-ustc-.  . 

I  think  I  was  asked  to  serve  on  the  Mills  Board 
because  of  my  knowledge  and  experience  in  the  field 
of  finance,  and  knowing  that  I  had  a  large  acquaintance 
with  people  who  would  be  helpful  in  connection  with 
their  fund  raising  programs. 


78. 


Nathan: 


Of  course  your  12  years  of  experience  at  Piedmont 
gave  you  some  good  background,  and  undoubtedly  your 
experience  on  the  Board  of  Regents  at  U.C.  was 
valuable. 


Fund-Raising 


Witter:     Well,  I  don't  know  whether  they  thought  of  that  or 
not,  but  experience  compounds .   At  any  rate,  I 
served  for  10  years --from  19^7  to  1957.   I  became 
chairman  of  their  fund-raising  campaign  in  1951. 
In  195^>  we  had  a  big  campaign  and  raised  a  sub 
stantial  amount  of  money. 

Nathan:     How  do  you  set  up  a  fund-raising  campaign  for  an 
institution  like  Mills? 

Witter:     We  had  a  coinmittee  that  devoted  a  great  deal  of 
attention  to  this;  I  was  the  committee  chairman. 
We  had  a  paid  professional  fund-raiser  working  with 
us.   The  people  on  the  Mills  Board  provided  names 
of  people  they  thought  would  be  interested  in  con 
tributing.  We  developed  a  big  list  of  people  who 
might  be  prospects,  not  only  in  the  Bay  Area,  but 
all  over  the  country.   Everyone  on  the  list  was 
approached  by  one  of  the  committee  and  was  asked 
for  a  donation. 

There  were  committees  in  the  Bay  Area  and  throughout 
the  United  States --their  prospects  were  women  who 
had  graduated  from  Mills  and  their  families.   There 
are  people  all  over  the  United  States  who  are  very 
much  interested  in  Mills  and  who  contributed  generously 
In  due  course,  we  raised  a  lot  of  money. 

Nathan:     Did  you  call  on  people  yourself? 
Witter:     Yes,  a  good  many. 

Nathan:     Did  you  find  this  the  most  successful  method  of 
getting  contributions? 

Witter:     I  think  it  is.   I  also  think  that  it  is  necessary 
to  have  printed  material  to  distribute  broadly  to 
those  people  you  think  might  be  interested.   As 
a  matter  of  fact  every  month  Mills  sends  out  a 
little  paper  or  pamphlet  called  "Fallen  Leaver" 
which  has  news  items  of  interest  to  keep  the  friends 
of  >"ills  in  touch  with  the  college.   Since  I  was 


79. 


V. '.tter:     there,  which  was  a  long  time  ago,  they've  had  a 

very  successful  fund-raising  campaign  that's  just 
coming  to  a  close.   Ten  million  dollars  was  raised, 
part  of  which  came  from  the  Ford  Foundation. 

Nathan:     In  your  campaign  did  you  have  the  problems  of  trying 
to  raise  funds  to  match  foundation  grants? 

Witter:     No,  we  didn't.   The  technique  of  matching  funds  is 
one  which  has  developed  since  I  was  active. 

Nathan:     In  connection  with  your  Mills  College  activities, 
do  you  remember  President  Aurelia  Henry  Reinhardt? 

Witter:     Yes,  I  remember  her  over  many  years.   She  was  highly 
regarded  and  did  a  magnificent  job  as  president  of 
Mills  College.   I  also  knew  her  husband  when  I  was 
at  the  University  of  California.   He  was  a  professor 
there.   I  think  he  was  also  a  doctor  who  advised 
freshmen  as  to  how  they  should  live  and  keep  out  of 
trouble.   He  was  very  good  at  it. 

I  met  President  Reinhardt  a  few  times,  but  did  not 

know  her  well.   I  do  know  her  son,  whom  I  see  occuo  i.onolly . 

Nathan:     Do  you  remember  other  people,  besides  yourself, 
who  were  particularly  active  in  the  fund-raising 
campaign? 

Witter:     I  remember  Crawford  Greene  as  a  very  active  trustee, 
and  Roy  Shurtleff,  who  was  also  very  active. 

Nathan:     Did  you  become  interested  in  the  educational  policies 
of  Mills  also? 

Witter:     Only  as  a  board  member,  when  such  matters  were  being 
discussed.   I  was  never  on  any  committees  in  that 
field. 

Nathan:     Did  any  close  members  of  your  family  go  to  Mills? 
Witter:     No,  none  of  them. 

United  Bay  Area  Crusade  and  the  Old  Community  Ches t 

Nathan:     Was  the  Mills  fund  campaign  your  first  venture  into 
this  kind  of  fund-raising? 

Witter:     No,  because  after  I  had  been  president  of  the 


80 


Witter:     Investment  Bankers  Association  of  America,  I  was 
asked  in  19^0  to  head  up  the  United  Crusade  in 
San  Francisco.   I  believe  it  was  still  called  the 
Community  Chest  at  that  time.   That  campaign  was 
a  question  of  organization,  with  different  committees 
to  handle  various  parts  of  the  community.   It  takes 
publicity.   It  takes  effort  to  be  sure  you  cover 
all  the  people  and  have  them  know  about  the  activities, 
and  the  fine  work  of  the  agencies  that  comprise 
the  crusade,  and  then  to  get  them  to  contribute. 
Twenty-six  years  ago  it  wasn't  as  well  developed 
as  it  is  today. 

Today  we  have  a  United  Bay  Area  Crusade;  more  people 
and  more  corporations  have  been  educated  to  the 
wisdom  of  being  generous  to  the  fund.   Now,  they 
raise  $14  or  $15  million  or  more,  whereas  we  raised 
$2  or  $3  million  a  year. 

Nathan:     How  did  you  become  educated  to  the  need  to  be  generous? 

Witter:     In  our  firm,  since  our  start,  we  all  knew  a  good 

deal  about  the  Community  Chest  and  the  work  of  the 
various  units  in  it.   We  contributed  as  a  firm  and 
individually.   I  must  have  learned  it  from  my  friends, 
and  by  working  as  a  solicitor  for  many  years.   The 
Community  Chest,  later  the  United  Bay  Area  Crusade, 
has  been  growing  every  year.   It  must  raise  more 
money  annually  to  take  care  of  increased  demands. 
It  is  just  a  natural  development,  I  believe. 

Nathan:     Were  there  any  community  problems  that  particularly 
interested  you,  that  you  learned  about  in  connection 
with  your  work  with  the  Chest? 

Witter:     The  various  units  of  the  Chest  all  have  plenty  of 
problems;  and  one  of  the  principal  problems  is 
raising  enough  money  every  year  with  which  to  operate. 
My  position  was  that  of  one  endeavoring  to  help 
raise  the  money.   That  was  my  primary  interest. 

Nathan:     What  is  your  view  of  other  organizations  who  feel 

that  they  must  have  their  own  fund  drives  in  addition 
to  whatever  they  can  get  from  the  Crusade? 

Witter:     I  think  that  the  Crusade  is  best  for  all  these 

charitable  organizations.   The  Red  Cross  is  a  very 
popular  organization,  and  it  has  done  a  great  deal 
for  American  boys  and  men  in  time  of  war.   It  has 
done  a  great  deal  for  people  who  have  misfortunes 
during  the  time  of  fires  and  floods,  and  it  is  very 


81. 


Witter:     popular.  The  Red  Cross's  share  from  the  United 
Crusade  is  not  sufficient  to  take  care  of  their 
charitable  requirements.   They  are  so  big  and  have 
sc  nany  demands  made  upon  them,  that  they  run  a 
supplemental  campaign  every  year.   Were  I  in  the 
Red  Cross1  position  and  unable  to  get  the  money  I 
needed  by  working  with  the  United  Crusade,  I  think 
I  would  go  on  my  own  if  I  was  strong  enough  to  do 
it,  and  they  are.   A  great  many  people  who  donated 
to  the  Crusade  wouldn't  give  to  the  Red  Cross  at 
first,  but  I  think  that  most  of  that  feeling  has 
subsided.   There  are  some  others  like  the  Red  Cross, 
and  the  Heart  Association,  whose  needs  are  great, 
who  also  have  their  own  drives.   The  Salvation 
Army  has  separate  drives,  but  is  still  part  of  the 
Crusade.   The  Crusade  permits  a  few  supplemental 
restrictive  campaigns. 

Of  course,  the  ideal  would  be  to  have  one  drive. 
That's  the  best  way  to  handle  the  problem.   But  it 
is  practical  to  make  a  few  exceptions.   I  think  that 
almost  all  of  the  units  that  are  in  the  United 
Crusade  do  better  being  in  than  being  out.   They 
get  more  money,  and  certainly  it  costs  them  a  lot 
less  to  raise  that  money.  Using  professional  fund 
raisers  that  charge  a  fee  of  fifty  cents  on  every 
dollar  they  raise  doesn't  net  them  very  much. 
That's  my  opinion. 

Nathan:     Have  you  worked  in  both  fields,  both  for  the  fund, 
and  then  for  separate  appeals  like  the  Red  Cross 
and  the  Cancer  Fund? 

Witter:     For  the  Red  Cross,  twice.   I  was  also  one  of  those 
who  tried  to  help  raise  funds  for  the  cancer  group. 
None  of  the  agencies,  in  or  out  of  the  fund,  get  what 
they  say  they  need. 

Nathan:     What  would  be  your  solution  for  this  shortage  of 
privately  raised  funds?   Is  there  any? 

Witter:     I  don't  know  what  the  answer  is,  but  I  think  that 

our  nation  is  welfare-minded  and  is  giving  more  and 
more  money  to  these  various  causes.   If  that  money 
is  well  spent,  and  put  into  the  right  channels,  I 
think  maybe  that's  the  biggest  help  these  charities 
can  get. 

Nathan:  Do  you  have  the  feeling  that  the  source  of  support 
moves  somewhat  away  from  private  contributions  and 
into  the  government  field? 


62. 


Witter: 


I  think  the  government's  welfare  point  of  view  and 
give-away  program  all  over  the  world  have  been  growing 
and  taking  root  ever  since  Mr.  Roosevelt's  time. 


Problems  of  Poverty 


Nathan:     I  take  it  you  are  not  too  pleased? 

Witter:  No,  I  am  not  pleased  at  all  the  way  the  government 
goes  overboard  in  giving  to  many  countries  who  are 
not  our  friends. 

I  think  this  poverty  program  is  a  racket.   I  don't 
think  that  it  helps  people  who  are  poor  very  much, 
but  I  think  that  it  gives  all  kinds  of  jobs  to 
"worthy?"  politicians.   I  think  that  they  waste 
money,  and  I  don't  think  that  the  government  welfare 
program  has  been  a  success  at  all. 

Nathan:     Would  you  have  a  different  approach  to  the  alleviation 
of  poverty? 

Witter:     I'm  not  an  expert.   I  think  that  poverty  is  really 
caused  mostly  by  the  individual,  and  I  think  too 
many  people  are  poor  because  they  won't  work.   I 
think  too  many  people  are  poor  because  they  won't 
save  anything.   I  know  a  man  who  is  a  cook,  healthy 
and  strong,  who  spends  every  nickel  of  his  salary, 
which  is  a  good  one;  he  is  always  broke.   Someone 
asked  him  why  he  didn't  save  some  of  his  money  to 
look  after  his  old  age.   He  didn't  want  to  do  that 
at  all,  because  the  government  was  going  to  take 
care  of  him.   There  are  too  many  of  those  people. 

Nathan:     You  were  saying  earlier  how  important  you  felt 

education  was  in  getting  a  start  in  life  and  being 
able  to  continue.   Do  you  see  a  link  between  education 
and  the  chance  to  get  ahead? 

Witter:     I  think  that  those  who  have  a  good  education  have 
a  big  advantage,  but  I  think  there  are  all  sorts 
of  personal  disciplines  that  people  have  to  use  to 
determine  whether  they  are  going  to  get  ahead  or 
not.  They  have  to  save,  in  my  opinion,  to  look 
after  illness  and  old  age,  and  for  things  that  they 
would  like  to  have  in  the  future.   I  think  they  have 
to  discipline  themselves  to  do  things  that  perhaps 
aren't  the  most  pleasant  or  the  easiest. 


83. 


Witter: 


Nathan: 


Witter: 


Nathan: 


I  do  not  believe  that  the  government  owes  everyone 
a  living.   I  think  that  it  is  up  to  the  Individual 
to  make  more  of  an  effort  than  so  many  do.   The 
welfare  program  is  killing  initiative.   It  is  better 
that  we  do  something  for  ourselves.  You  don't 
agree  with  that  maybe...  [Laughter] 

I  couldn't  say  that  I  disagree  entirely,  but  possibly 
we  don't  see  eye  to  eye  on  the  whole  thing.   I't;, 
interested  in  hearing  how  you  approach  various 
problems  through  your  own  point  of  view.   In  the 
way  you  have  developed  your  business,  for  instance, 
you  must  have  established  certain  guidelines  and 
certain  rules  of  conduct  and  ways  of  thinking  for 
yourself. 

Well,  you  are  working  at  the  University,  your  husband 
works,  you  are  happy  doing  something  constructive; 
you  are  probably  saving  some  money,  and  you  art  i 
contributor.   Millions  of  people  are  that  way,  ur 
this  country  wouldn't  be  like  it  is  at  all.   But 
there  is  a  certain  percentage  of  people,  which 
seems  to  be  growing,  that  doesn't  have  that  constructive 
point  of  view.   I  think  that  is  terrible  for  our 
country.   I  wouldn't  like  to  see  my  children  grow 
up  that  way,  and  it  bothers  me  to  see  other  parents 
let  their  children  do  whatever  they  want  to,  whether 
they  know  what  is  best  or  not. 

These  are  certainly  puzzling  times,  in  many  ways. 
Perhaps  now,  if  there  isn't  anything  more  you  would 
like  to  say  about  the  United  Crusade,  and  your  work 
there,  we  might  turn  to  one  of  your  professional 
interests,  the  Investment  Bankers'  Association. 


Investment  Bankers  Association  o£  America 

Witter:     Early  in  my  business  career,  I  didn't  think  it  was 
wise  to  be  involved  in  a  lot  of  extra-curricular 
activities.   However,  I  accepted  when  I  was  asked 
to  serve  on  the  Board  of  the  California  group  of  the 
Investment  Bankers'  Association.   In  due  course, 
I  was  elected  chairman  of  the  group.   As  head  of 
the  California  group,  I  went  to  the  national  con 
ventions  and  became  interested  in  different  activities 
In  a  few  years  I  was  elected  President  of  the  Invest 
ment  Bankers  Association  of  America. 

Nathan:     With  what  level  of  legislation  were  you  most  con 
cerned—federal  or  state? 


84. 


Witter; 

Nathan: 
Witter: 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


Nathan: 
Witter: 


When  I  was  active  in  the  California  group,  it  was 
with  California  legislation. 

What  sort  of  legislation? 

Legislation  pertaining  to  taxes,  to  corporate  securities 

laws  and  municipal  laws.   Our  industry  has  been 

most  helpful  to  the  Corporation  Commission  in  revising 

and  modernizing  the  California  Corporation  Securities 

Act.   For  example,  if  a  legislator  sponsored  a  law 

which  we  thought  impractical  and  detrimental  to 

our  business,  we  would  have  to  do  a  little  educational 

work. 

For  the  educational  work  does  the  association  main 
tain  a  lobbyist  in  Sacramento? 

The  California  Investment  Bankers'  Association  has 
a  man  in  Sacramento  who  follows  all  the  bills  that 
pertain  to  our  business,  and  endeavors  to  be  up 
to  date  at  all  times.   So  when  different  subjects 
come  up  that  are  good,  we  support  them;  and  if  they 
are  bad,  from  our  point  of  view,  we  work  against 
them. 

Are  you  active  in  this  sort  of  work  now? 

I  am  not,  but  one  of  our  partners  is  active  in  the 
local  association  and  one  in  the  national.   Another 
is  in  the  group  of  the  National  Association  of 
Security  Dealers.   Still  another  partner  has  just 
completed  his  three-year  term  as  a  Governor  of  the 
New  York  Stock  Exchange.  We  have  partners  and  other 
men  in  our  firm  who  are  active  in  all  the  different 
business  organizations  that  are  interested  in  our 
type  of  work. 

How  is  the  Investment  Bankers'  Association  organized? 

It  is  made  up  of  18  groups  extending  from  New  York 
to  California  and  Minnesota  to  Florida,  plus  one 
in  Canada.   Each  group  has  a  number  of  committees 
including  state  legislation,  corporate  securities, 
municipal  securities.   The  national  association  has 
about  30  standing  committees  plus  five  convention 
committees  and  many  special  committees. 

Each  year  the  national  association  has  a  meeting  in 
the  spring  and  a  convention  in  the  fall.   The 
group  chairmen  all  belong  to  the  National  Group 
Chairmen's  Committee,  which  ties  the  association 


65. 


Witter:     together.   In  addition,  of  course,  all  of  the  other 
national  committees  are  made  up  of  people  from  all 
of  the  groups . 

Community  Projects 

Nathan:      Do  you  find  yourself  still  involved  in  local  community 
activities? 

Witter:     I'm  trying  not  to  get  into  any  more  such  groups, 
but  I  recently  worked  on  one.   That's  the  study 
group  of  the  Bay  Area  Social  Planning  Council.   I 
was  asked,  by  a  banker  friend  of  mine,,  if  I  would 
serve  on  the  committee.   The  committee  has  met  once 
so  far,  and  seems  quite  intelligent.   Their  objective 
seems  to  be  to  help  the  underprivileged  people  in 
the  Bay  Area  who  are  ineligible  for  welfare. 

It  started  out  like  the  poverty  program.   Different 
groups  that  are  interested  in  this  situation  present 
their  projects  to  the  committee  of  which  I  am  a 
member.   Then  as  citizens,  we  will  express  our  opinion 
as  to  the  worth  of  the  projects.   We  are  the  panel 
of  judges. 

Nathan:     Then  in  addition,  have  you  been  active  in  political 
party  work? 

Witter:     I  am  a  Republican,  and  I  have  helped  the  Republican 
Party  as  a  fund  raiser  for  a  long  time,  and  have 
served  on  many  different  committees,  here  in  San 
Francisco . 

I  am  still  on  the  Symphony  Board. 


The  Blyth-Zellerbach  Committee 


Witter 


Nathan; 
Witter: 


I'm  a  member  of  the  Blyth-Zellerbach  Committee,  which 
is  a  group  of  men  repx-esenting  leading  Industries 
here  in  San  Francisco.   The  committee  endeavors  to  be 
helpful  with  civic  problems,  for  the  city  and  state. 

Is  the  committee  active  at  this  time? 

It's  still  active.   Mr.  Gwin  c'ollis,  formerly 
President  and  Chairman  of  the  Board  of  Standard 
Oil  of  California  is  chairman  of  this  committee. 


86. 


Nathan:     What  sorts  of  matters  is  the  Blyth-Zellerbach 
Committee  concerning  itself  with  now? 

Witter:     Problems  where  the  city  leeds  the  support  of  strong 
business  people  to  carry  out  various  programs  that 
the  city  officials  and  the  business  people  think 
are  important. 

The  committee's  purpose  is  to  endeavor  to  help  solve 
civic  problems  and  to  work  with  the  Mayor  and  other 
civic  leaders  in  trying  to  see  that  the  city  follows 
the  best  policies  for  its  future.   When  a  project 
is  contemplated,  the  committee  raises  the  funds  to 
make  a  study;  and  then  when  the  study  is  completed, 
the  Blyth-Zellerbach  Committee  uses  the  professional 
information  they  have  obtained  to  help  whoever  is 
interested  in  the  various  projects  under  consideration, 

Nathan:     Was  it  the  committee  itself  that  retained  the 

Arthur  D.  Little  Company  to  make  a  recent  study  for 
the  City  of  San  Francisco? 

Witter:     Yes.  The  committee  recently  retained  Arthur  D. 

Little  and  Company  to  make  a  study  of  the  various 
civic  organizations  in  San  Francisco,  with  the  ob 
jective  of  determining  which  are  good,  bad,  or 
indifferent,  and  which  overlap.   The  company  has 
made  a  report  to  the  Blyth-Zellerbach  Committee. 
The  report  indicated  that  certain  of  the  organ 
izations  that  overlapped  in  their  work,  or  didn't  have 
the  right  leadership  or  manpower,  might  be  merged. 
In  this  way  it  would  be  possible  to  cut  down  the 
number  of  civic  groups  that  the  large  corporations 
contribute  to  so  heavily.   It  isn't  final  yet,  but 
the  committee  is  talking  with  different  people, 
such  as  the  Downtown  Association,  the  Market  Street 
Development  Project,  and  others  to  ask  them  which 
might  be  the  best  mergers  of  some  of  these  organ 
izations.  We  are  currently  working  on  this. 

Nathan:     Has  the  Blyth-Zellerbach  Committee  taken  any  par 
ticular  interest  in  proposals  for  regional  government? 

Witter:     By  regional  government,  do  you  mean  merging  the 

East  Bay,  San  Mateo,  and  Marin  into  a  Greater  San 
Francisco? 

Nathan:     Thut  has  been  one  proposal.   There  have  also  been 

other  proposals,  for  instance  to  establish  an  over 
all  district  to  handle  certain  functions  for  several 
Bay  Area  counties. 


87. 


Witter:     The  committee  hasn't  dealt  with  that  proposal  for 
several  years,  not  since  I've  been  on  it. 

One  of  the  subjects  that  has  bothered  the  Blyth- 
Zellerbach  Committee  was  that  some  manufacturing 
firms  that  formerly  were  located  in  San  Francisco 
have  moved  down  to  San  Jose,  or  have  moved  down  to 
Fremont,  or  San  Mateo.   They  made  a  study  of  this 
problem,  trying  to  work  with  the  Chamber  of  Commerce 
and  other  bodies,  to  determine  ways  to  overcome  this 
tendency.   I  don't  know  how  much  good  they  did, 
but  at  least  that's  the  type  of  thing  that  interests 
them.   They're  interested  in  San  Francisco  and  any 
thing  they  can  do  to  promote  the  welfare  of  San 
Francisco  is  their  objective. 

Nathan:     With  your  account  of  the  Blyth-Zellerbach  Committee, 
we  have  touched,  at  least  lightly,  on  many  of  your 
community  interests  and  activities.  When  we  were 
talking  earlier  about  some  of  youi1  business  and 
professional  interests  and  your  many  links  with  the 
University  of  California,  I  noticed  that  your  files 
seemed  to  be  full  of  items  that  might  be  good  supple 
ments  for  your  memoirs . 

Witter:     All  right,  we  can  look  over  the  files  and  see  what 
you  want  for  the  University  Archives  and  Bancroft 
Library. 


(Note:   after  the  conclusion  of  these  interviews,  and  during  the 
Spring  of  1968,  when  the  process  of  editing  was  underway,  Jean 
Carter  Witter  was  named  a  Berkeley  Fellow,  one  of  100  persons  so 
honored  as  part  of  the  Centennial  Celebration  of  the  University 
of  California. ) 


88 
PARTIAL  INDEX 


Ahlport,  Erodie  E.     56 

Alumni  Council     56,  65,  66,  68,  69 

Anderson,  Frank     33,  35 

Barrows,  Dr.  David  Prescott     70 

Bates,  John  and  Catharine     7 

Bay  Conservation  and  Development  Commission 

Eeise,  Clark     72 

Biggs,  Reginald     72 

Blue  and  Gold     9 

Blyth.  Charles  ("Charlie")     29,  30,  35,  36 

Blyth,  Witter  &  Co.     23,  29,  30,  31,  3^,  35 

Blyth-Zellerbach  Committee     84,  85 

Bullock's  Department  Store      22 

Campbell,  Dr.  William  Wallace      70 

Car-ipus  Buildings     10,  11 

Campus  Politico     9,  10 

Coehr-an,  George  I. 

Conner  Lumber  Company     2CJ 

Corley,  James     65,  66 

Cronln,  George     46 

Dean  witter  &  Co.     35~55,  56-86 

Deutsch,  Monroe     59,  6l 

Dexter,  Walter  F.     56 

Dickson,  Edward  A.     56 

Dinwiddie  Construction  Co.     58,  59 

Drury,  Newton     12,  17 

Ehrman,  Sidney  M.     56 

Federated  Department  Stores     22 
Fleishhacker,  Mortimer     56 
Fleming,  Dean     62,  63 
Flodberg,  Fred     9 

Ghiselli,  Dr.  Edwin     55 
Glee  Club     10 
Giannini,  A.  P. 
Greenleaf,  Mrs.     4,  5 

Harris,  Hall  &  Co.     47 
Harrison,  Maurice  E.    58,  61 
Haynes,  Oliver     12 
Heyns,  Roger     69 
Hi gg ins on,  Lee     48 
Hind,  George  U.     56 


89 


Investment  Bankers'  Association     83,  84 
Irvine,  James     3^ 

Janney,  Fritz     46 
Jordan,  Fred  Mover     56 

Kerr,  Dr.  Clark     70,  71 

Leib,  Keyston  Company     4-7 

Law3on,  Kric     12 

Leslie  Salt  Company     19 

Liberty  Scholarship  Fund,  Jean  C.  Witter,  Jr.     73 

Magrvln,  I.  and  Company     22 
,  Lawrence     48 


ther,  Stephen  D.     12 

urc-r,  Catharine  (Mrs.  Jean  Witter)     24 
Kaurcr,  Professor  Edward  Rose     25 
McFadden,  A.J.      56 
Meyer,  Leo     12 

Union     62,  63 
Miller,  G.  Willard,  Jr.     53 
Mills  college     77,  78,  79 

Ills,  Percy 

MoiTitt,  James  K.     56,  58,  6l 
;  Jordan,  Dr.  Agnes  Fay     66 
Morse,  Clinton  "Brick"     10 

Neylsn,  John  Francis     56,  58,  6l 
Norto-i,  William     58,  59 

Pauley,  Edwin  w.     57,  61 
Pence,  Edward  A.     53 
Petersen,  Ted     72 
Pratt,  Colonel     26 


Redwood  Shores      19,  29,  21 
Relnhardt,  Aurelia  Henry     79 
Roman,  Frederick  W.     57 

Sharp,  Roy 

Short,  James     12 

Sink,  Dan     12 

Slo3s,  Louis 

Smyth-Fernwald  property     57,  5^,  59,  65 

S;>roul,  Allan     12 

Sproul,  Fres.  Robert  Gordon 

Sullivan,  Mark     72 

Taylor,  Eaton     53 
Trosidder,  Mary  Curry     16 


90 


Underbill,  Bob 


Wheeler,  Benjamin  Ide 

'.-."nitman,  Frederick 
Whltton,  John     9 
ison  property 
tter,  Dean     2, 


72 


12,  70 


Witter, 
Witter, 

Dean  &  Co.     see  Dean 
1-dwin     2,  46 

Witter, 

Frances  Louise  Phelps 

Witter, 

George  Franklin     1 

V::ltter, 
Witter, 

Witter, 
Witter, 

Guy     15,  27 
Jean     1-87 
Jean  C.,  Jr.     73,  74 
John     6,  53 

Witter, 

Phelps     2 

Witter, 
Witter, 

Thomas  W.     53 
Wendell     2,  3,  6,  53 

67 

3,  6,  22,  29,  35 

Witter  £  Co. 


Witter,  Mrs.  Willis  Guy  (Elizabeth) 

1 ' "  n  r*  V  ^    P  ~i  £*  T*  f*  ^        ^  • 

.  .  W  1.  *\.O  i       I  t*  J-  v*  %.*. 

:•  I        23  -  28 


15 


Yo3oi!:ite  National  Park 
Yo3e;nite  Park  and  Curry 


12  -  18 
Co.     16, 


17, 


19 


investment 


By  JBAN  C.  WITTER  '16       •       Investment  Banker  and 
President    of    California    Alumni    Association. 


TODAY  millions  of  young  men  are 
faced  with  the  question  "What 
are  the  opportunities,  the  qualifica 
tions  and  the  rewards  in  the  kind  of 
career  I  want  for  myself?" 

As  an  investment  banker  I  have 
been  asked  to  answer  that  question  for 
the  information  of  those  men  who 
may  want  to  enter  the  field  of  invest 
ment  banking.  I  welcome  the  oppor 
tunity  to  do  this  and  I  hope  that  my 
comments  may  help  some  alumni  to 
ward  a  sound  decision  and  a  successful 
career. 

I  have  in  mind  particularly  those 
young  men  who,  as  part  of  their  ex 
perience  during  the  war,  have  acquired 
the  "know-how"  of  assuming  respon 
sibility  and  who  have  learned  to  take 
pride  in  an  essential  job  well-done. 
I  believe  that  these  men  are  looking 
for  more  than  just  a  job  or  an  oppor 
tunity  to  make  a  good  living.  They 
will  want  income  plus,  and  will  be 
influenced  in  the  choice  of  their  work 
by  the  "intangibles,"  such  as  the 
character  and  importance  of  a  business 
or  profession  and  its  ability  to  hold 
and  satisfy  their  interest. 

Investment  banking  and  brokerage 
is  that  kind  of  work.  It  is  much  more 
than  a  business  in  the  ordinary  sense 
of  the  word.  It  is  a  profession  and 
also  one  of  the  most  fascinating  obser 
vation  posts  at  the  cross-roads  of  in 
dustry,  progress  and  "history  in  the 
making."  Virtually  every  event  of 
consequence  anywhere  in  the  world  is 
bound  to  be  reflected  in  the  securities 
markets.  The  practical  effect  of  these 
events  must  be  understood  and  taken 
into  consideration  by  the  investment 
banker.  It  is  his  task  and  that  of  his 
associates  to  appraise  the  meaning  of 
current  news  developments,  inven 
tions,  industrial  production,  legisla 
tion  and  national  and  international 
affairs  and  to  gauge  how  all  of  these 
will  affect  the  thoughts  and  actions  of 
the  public.  There  need  never  be  a  dull 
moment;  never  any  fear  of  getting 
into  a  rut. 

I  need  not  dwell  at  any  great 
length  on  the  widely  recognized  im 
portance  and  essential  nature  of  in 
vestment  banking.  There  it  nothing 
mysterious  about  it,  but  without  it 
we  could  neither  maintain  nor  develop 
our  free  enterprise  system  and  our 
standard  of  living.  It  it  indiscernible 
to  the  country  in  providing:  first, 
capital  to  growing  industries;  second, 

M 


employment  for  labor  through  the  ex 
penditures  of  capital  thus  provided; 
and  third,  investments  for  individuals 
and  institutions  alike. 

The  main  function  of  investment 
banking  is  to  assemble  necessary  cap 
ital  funds  for  business,  industry  and 
public  works.  Investment  bankers  buy 
the  securities  from  the  issuer  and  sell 
them  either  directly  to  investors  or  in 
directly  to  individuals  through  the 
medium  of  insurance  companies,  sav 
ings  banks,  and  other  investing  insti 
tutions.  In  this  manner  investments 
are  provided  for  the  savings  of  the 
American  people  and  users  of  capital 
get  the  funds  they  need  to  expand  and 
grow  and  employ  workers.  Industry  is 
thus  provided  with  funds  with  which 
to  buy  the  indispensible  tools  for  the 
efficient  and  low-cost  production  of 
virtually  all  necessities  and  conven 
iences  of  life.  There  must  be  an  aver 
age  investment  of  close  to  $9,000  or 
$  1 0,000  in  "tools"  and  working  capital 
for  every  industrial  worker.  In  other 
words,  the  investment  banker  must 
sell  and  the  investing  public  must  buy 
about  nine  $1,000  bonds  or  90  shares 
of  a  $100  stock  to  finance  a  single 
worker  with  a  new  job.  Without  such 
an  investment  and  without  his  tools 
the  efficiency  of  the  most  highly 
skilled  mechanic  could  revert  to  the 
old  laborious  hand-type  labor,  and  his 
earning  power  would  sink  to  a  corres 
pondingly  low  level.  It  is  significant 
that,  as  a  general  rule,  the  highest 
wages  are  paid  in  those  industries  in 
which  there  is  the  highest  investment 
in  modern  machinery  for  each  em 
ployee. 

Many  people  do  not  realize  that  the 
railroads,  utilities,  and  the  large  busi 
ness  enterprises  so  necessary  to  our 
daily  lives  were  made  possible  by  the 
sale  of  securities;  that  our  schools, 
parks  and  public  buildings  are  built 
from  the  sale  of  bonds.  Obviously,  it 
takes  a  great  many  investors  to  pro 
vide  the  necessary  capital  for  one  of 
our  huge  industrial  enterprises  or  for 
the  expansion  or  modernization  of  an 
existing  one;  or  for  a  public  utility 
plant;  or  for  a  municipal  water  system 
or  school  building.  Hence  the  invest 
ment  banker  must  be  in  a  position  to 
locate  surplus  capital  for  which  in 
dividuals  and  institutions  are  seeking 
safe  and  remunerative  employment. 

In  this  way  our  business  is  serving 
industry  and  municipalities  on  the  out  • 


Kand  and  the  thrifty  investor  on  tX. 
other.  Whenever  private  capital  flo», 
freely,  it  brings  with  it  increased  o-. 
portunities  for  employment,  ane 
wherever  it  flows,  there  the  condition, 
become  more  favorable  for  prospers, 
and  progress. 

When  an  investment  bankin- 
house  or  a  syndicate  of  investment 
houses  is  asked  to  procure  capital  frorr 
the  public  or  to  "underwrite"  a  bond 
or  stock  issue  it  must  first  satisfy  \\. 
self  that  the  securities  are  a  sound  and 
desirable  investment.  This  involve, 
searching  and  highly  interesting 
studies  and  comparisons  of  many  in. 
dustries,  their  management,  history, 
outlook  and  numerous  other  f acton 
Knowledge  of  what  is  going  on  in  d* 
world  together  with  experience  and 
sound  judgment  are  required  for  pro. 
ficiency  in  this  particular  field,  termed 
the  Buying  Department.  This  field 
affords  attractive  opportunities  to 
those  who  show  and  develop  specif 
aptitude  in  this  direction. 

The  function  of  the  Sales  Depart- 
ment  is,  of  course,  to  make  sales  ind 
distribute  the  securities  which  have 
been  bought  ~or  underwritten  by  the 
firm.  The  salesman  must  acquire  ; 
thorough  knowledge  of  investmcn; 
principles  and  securities.  He  must  keep 
himself  posted  on  his  clients'  invest 
ment  objectives,  needs  and  prefer 
ences  and  advise  the  holders  of  secur 
ities  regarding  developments  in  their 
companies  and  in  the  securities  mar 
ket  in  general.  In  this  age  success  in 
investment  banking  is  built  up  on  the 
foundations  of  character,  ability  and 
hard  work.  Lacking  these  qualifica 
tions  little  else  counts. 

The  functions  of  the  investment 
banker  which  I  have  tried  to  outline 
so  far  concern  themselves  mostly  with 
the  "underwriting"  business  or  the 
purchase  from  corporations  and  muni 
cipalities  of  their  bonds,  or  of  corpor 
ate  preferred  stocks  and  common 
stocks  and  the  resale  of  these  securities 
to  the  investing  public.  Generally, 
issues  of  this  type  are  intended  to  take 
care  of  the  long-term  or  permanent 
capital  needs  of  industry  and  munici 
palities.  (The  commercial  banks  are 
the  short-term  or  medium-term  lend 
ers.)  In  transactions  of  this  nature  the 
investment  banker  acts  as  principal 
buying  and  selling  for  his  own  ac 
count.  This  work  is  usually  carried  on 
by  what  is  traditionally  known  as  the 
Bond  Department,  even  though  a  large 
percentage  of  the  business  of  that  de 
partment  today  is  actually  the  pur 
chase  and  sale  of  preferred  and  com 
mon  stocks. 

Many  investment  bankers  are  mem 
bers  of  the  New  York  Stock  Exchanp 
and  various  local  exchanges  and,  M 


California  Monthly.  December.  1945.  DD.  10-11 


At  ttw  Mt  Is  >«n  C.  WWW  '16  of  Of»n  Wltur  ami 
Company  hi  Sai  Franc'tro  and  PmldrM  at  California 
Alumni  Auoclailon,  who  nplom  poMlbilltkl  In  In- 
wstnwnt  banking  for  th*  rttumlnj  vrtrran  W  find  «n- 
plojrnwnt.  (rtvit  (.,  Ofn,.j 


I 

•*"' 

•• 

*.  • 

I 

<                     «  • 

A, 

r  • 

L-*                                            •'if 

-,;ch,  maintain  another  equally  im 
portant  department  which  is  more  or 
ics<  separate  and  distinct  from  the 
Bond  Department  and  is  known  as  the 
Brokerage  Department.  In  his  capac 
ity  as  broker  the  investment  banker, 
vtnctly  speaking,  acts  only  as  an 
iqcnt,  buying  or  selling  on  the  stock 
exchange  or  over  the  counter,  for  the 
account  of  clients  and  receiving  a 
commission  for  his  services.  As  broker, 
he  is  not  acting  as  a  principal  or  mer 
chant  of  securities. 

The  New  York  Stock  Exchange, 
founded  in  1792,  is  now  the  world's 
greatest  financial  mechanism  and  the 
barometer  which  registers  from  min 
ute  to  minute  the  changes  in  the 
"economic  weather"  of  our  country 
and  of  the  world  at  large.  The  Ex 
change  maintains  a  free,  competitive 
auction  market  where  "listed"  secur 
ities  of  the  country's  major  enter 
prises,  of  a  current  market  value  of 
close  to  200  billion  dollars,  are  bought 
or  sold  at  prices  which  are  determined 
solely  by  the  laws  of  supply  and  de 
mand,  that  is,  by  the  judgment  of  the 
investing  public  which  does  the  buy-- 
in*  and  selling.  Thus  the  Stock  Ex 
change  is  the  real  barometer  for  the 
flficitncy  and  performance  of  all  in 
dustry.  Growth  and  progress  are  re 
flected  thru  the  bidding  up  and  appre 
ciation  of  desirable  securities.  This 
-•fat  market  place  stands  for  the 


highest  standards  of  security  trading; 
transactions  in  billions  are  made  mere 
ly  by  word  of  mouth  between  mem 
bers  on  the  floor  of  the  Exchange. 

Many  people  are  under  the  im 
pression  that  the  stock  exchange  oper- 
.  ates  largely  for  the  benefit  of  a  rela 
tively  small  number  of  wealthy  indi 
viduals  or  speculators.  Actually,  in 
our  day  and  age,  securities  are  directly 
owned,  bought  or  sold  by  something 
like  10  million  individuals — individ 
uals  who  believe  in  thrift  and  whose 
spirit  of  enterprise  prompts  them  to 
become  partners  of  our  great  Amer 
ican  industries.  Indirectly,  every  in 
dividual  who  is  the  holder  or  benefic 
iary  of  an  insurance  policy,  or  has  a 
savings  account,  or  lives  in  a  munici 
pality  or  studies  at  a  college  or  other 
scientific  institution  is  benefited  by 
the  free  market  place  maintained  by 
the  stock  exchange  and  the  invest 
ment  banker. 

In  a  brokerage  or  "member"  firm 
the  customers'  man,  or  "registered 
representative'*  as  he  is  officially 
known,  is  constantly  called  upon  to 
do  a  great  deal  more  than  merely 
attend  to  the  execution  of  clients' 
orders.  He  must  keep  himself  in 
formed  on  all  important  news  devel 
opments,  not  only  regarding  the  com 
panies  in  which  his  clients  are  inter 
ested,  but  also  regarding  the  general 
trend  of  events  and  public  psychology, 


both  at  home  and  abroad.  He  must 
be  able  realistically  to  interpret  and 
evaluate  that  news  and  weigh  its 
probable  effect  on  a  given  company 
or  industry.  Politics  in  Washington, 
London  or  Moscow;  new  develop 
ments  in  air  transportation;  new  in 
ventions;  a  strike  in  a  steel  plant; 
weather  or  crop  conditions  in  Kansas 
or  Cuba — all  these  and  a  great  many 
other  factors  are  "good  news"  or  "bad 
news"  for  one  or  more  companies. 
Clients  are  looking  to  their  customers' 
men  for  a  sound  interpretation  of  the 
general  news  as  well  as  for  an  un 
biased  appraisal  of  the  performance 
of  their  companies.  For  the  wide 
awake  customers'  man  who  is  gen 
uinely  interested  both  in  the  events  of 
the  world  in  which  we  are  living  and 
in  the  financial  welfare  of  his  client 
this  work  can  become  more  fascinat 
ing  and  frequently  more  remunerative 
.  than  is  the  case  in  many  other  careers 
or  professions. 

Here  in  the  Brokerage  Department, 
the  same  as  in  the  Bond  Department, 
the  success  will  depend  largely  on  in 
tegrity,  sound  judgment  and  a  never- 
ending  effort  to  progress  and  learn 
from  experience.  The  work  requires 
good  men. 

What  about  the  future  of  invest 
ment  banking  and  brokerage?  The 
best  answer  to  that  question  is  found 
in  the  achievements  of  "free  enter 
prise"  which,  in  turn,  is  built  upon 
and  around  our  capitalistic  system. 
The  achievements  of  American  indus 
try  during  World  War  II  are  the  envy 
and  marvel  of  the  world.  In  our  in 
dustrial  age  it  is  indeed  a  case  of 
"Capital  the  Creator."  This  is  said 
with  a  full  recognition  that  our  sys 
tem,  like  all  systems,  has  not  always 
worked  perfectly  and  has  its  short* 
comings.  It  is  up  to  the  investment 
banker  and  broker  of  this  and  follow 
ing  generations  constantly  to  aim  at 
doing  a  better  job,  meet  the  challenge 
of  changing  times  and  make  himself 
more  useful  to  his  community  and  to 
the  country  at  large.  There  are  ahead 
of  us  unlimited  opportunities  for 
further  progress  and  the  achievement 
of  greater  economic  security.  Invest 
ment  banking  will  remain  an  essential 
part  of  our  way  of  life.  To  those  men 
who  want  to  enter  this  field,  it  is  fair 
to  say  that  only  their  own  ability, 
character  and  vision  will  be  the  meas 
ure  and  limit  of  their  success. 


93 


*  K|*Bff.!0-a  »"&  ?js»- .MJ|  *s  „;-  o- 

s|P  r=i°  3lli|*--lai*i?tFS; 

.     c  ]  "  w  S  2    .O   .      .^     !•£   .*?   .^  tu  W  3  fe" 

CoO*1.        <J         U         u  tn   t.         u         !-?*•  6"°«p:00t31 

^^.T^e-  c*o  c-^  SeoiioS'^:   o^oti™™'*1  °o  Ow*  °tt 


?  ? 


15 


.  z 
»  J 


is 


-  •; 

CT3 

S3 


«      T:<=  E-  •  :- 

i.-    N  •  M*^  2  *! 


°l 


c    . 

'H 

!l 


x-_ 

s° 


»jj    S 


5     S    r 


22S 


IP 

3  e 
<6 


x    S 


BS 

•I  i 

R  '— 


£  = 
!?.  i2 


SJt^ 

."".S 

-~  s-s'l 
rfgj* 

—  l-'jt 

~   '    S.  " 

e  -?S 
=  H  =  i 

-1^ 


»      ^      SS    rif     S      >> 

•"sJtlJga*  "  5  i 

U-S     g«|»     ?,-x8 

K   0_-C    S~  °      •    0-i 

esl85<?S^r3 


ssih 

te-S 


**te 


$3 

M-J 
k 
f^< 


«M    1fifcS«-sVJii-5  S3 

o  _ ,  SO.N  sw*85     •  T; 

f  52     ~g'.lM\=|   r     tf«r      :«• 
:=S      _-«»S    rw-T^fillS         <    r 


3—  .3  ff !  ",-.^«*i«0^* 

'•=2     cwJgJK  I  BM2«_ 

•^    !.-3SSBS-SS    "-I    -c- 

ii^^!l!ldilS 


i^tv.-..^^^.^,.,.^.^.,^.^-..^ 


i 


s 


i    ; 


I    1 


I 
j 


(  li  ii  1.  <  C.  TIMKIIC, 
Siuitn  1'inilii 

i 

e 
a 
X 

^ 

jt 

il 

H 

2£ 

>.  - 

o  r 

-i^ 

t7 

n 

:i 

r. 
t- 

• 
- 

A.  P.  Ginnnini, 
Hunk  of  Amcnm.  San  Kranrinr< 

(Dniidna  6112) 
Fred  Moycr  Jordan, 
427  Wokt  Fifth  Street,  Lo«  Ang« 
(Mutual  631S) 

Frederick  W.  Roman, 
214  Lnrnn  Drive,  Los  An^ecs  26 
(Exposition  3630) 

Edwin  W.  Paulcy. 
950  .South  Hro.vlwny,  Lou  Angel 
(Trinity  2561) 

Brotlic  f,.  Ahlport, 

liox  '.ill).  Koutc  1,  PaKadena 

Edward  H.  Heller, 
600  Market  Street,  San  Francisi 
(Suiter  5600) 

Norman  F.  Sprague, 
23!>  N.  Hoover,  Log  Angclri  4  — 
(Federal  1141) 

Maurice  E.  Harrison, 
111  Suitor  St.,  Snn  Francisco  4 
(Slitter  06GC) 

::. 

1 

1 

'nrrcn. 

(  1  1  LV7, 

I 

Ci 

7. 

1           1          N 

X 

*     A    J 

&       $     5? 
J«       ^     &•< 

W 
61 

E 
~ 

2 

. 

p 

I 

*.  ^*     T-^c 

C*H            i  CO    H 

**  tft       *C  t"      • 

f. 

*1 

^ 

~ 

.£ 

i 

"W     X    .Ci   ft* 

" 

>.£ 

u. 

"  A 

:• 

s"  = 

- 
^ 

ti*  -£  u"3    gu 

Ji£ 

p 

— 

c 

xf 

• 

'II 

Se^ 

nurcr. 

i^iJgiH 

c   -  M  e   -  O  c  *H 
C2       ;  S     •  cc!* 

•5  c 

<dS 
?i 

tn     c^2 


{WS 


^ 


•=-  '-.  =S~' 


•< 
• 


i         B 

"~  iSJf 

§li=«i^ 

ll!ll!i 

aa^-^s 

JSfeSi 

J  N         S  S        'S 

a*  i-  I 


S       c 
I       £ 

i 


e 
-- 


3        2 

A 

£         J« 

s      I: 


£ 
c^ 

^  c 


"Ses 

B« 


«s 

j  00 


=  £  J3S 


S  J*          S*C    r-    I 


a« 


s,s 

r: 


-•  ™  3  ^ 

l*1-£ 
Jo 

o. 


^ 

1 

. 

!I 

|| 

i' 

as" 

5  f 

n 
8     S^ 

I 

3 

s 

1 

anding  Committees  of  eh« 

Board  of  Regents 
1944-194J 

Agriculture 
TKAOUE,  OIAXNINI,  AHLPO 
MCFADDBN,  and  LTON 

Audit 
IIND.  JORDAN,  DKXTRR.  AHL: 
>[cFADDEN,  and  WITTER 

rclopmcnt  and  Endowments 
i  COCIIRAN.  NRTLAN.  ROHA 
PAUI.XT,  and  WITTEB 

ice  and  Business  Managcmen 
i.KisiuiACKKR,  MorrrrT,  NE 
KHRMAN,  OIANNINI,  and  Dl 

Grounds  and  Buildings 
IRMAN,  FLKISHHACKER,  Die 
,  HIND.  JORDAN,  and  HABBI 

Lick  Observatory 

EYLAN.  Fl.EISHHACKIB,  SPH 

HIND,  and  LTON 

incisco  Schools  and  Institutic 
HARRISON,  OIANNINI,  Mon 
AIII.PORT,  and  SPRAQVB 

rn  California  Schools,  Collcg 
and  Institutions 
KSON,  TEAQVI,  COCHRAN,  E 
N,  ROMAN.  PAUI.KT,  ROWEL 
and  HODIER 

achcr  Training  Institutioos 
DWELL,  ROHAN,  DIXTEB,  Hi 
and  HARRISON 

> 

« 

I 

3 
I 

si 

Final 
Regents  F: 
COOHRAN, 

Recants  El 

XKVI.AX 

a 
1 
& 

H 

V)     b 

M 

1    5S 
1    1° 

I 

*1 

| 

95 


2 


d 

1 

9 

00 

! 

1 

Ji    £ 

1 

Ii 

i 

N 

A 

Ii 

3  W.  JTHUIC7, 

756  South  Broadway,  Loa  Angele 
(Trinity  2661) 

odie  E.  Ahlport, 
6923  Bonita  Terrace,  Hollywood 
Iward  H.  Heller. 
600  Market  Street,  San  Franciacc 
(Sutter  6600) 

orman  F.  Sprague, 
235  N.  Hoover.  Loa  Angelea  4— 
(Federal  1141) 

aurice  E.  Harrison, 
111  Sutter  St..  San  Francisco  4 
(Sutter  0666) 

OFFICERS  OF  THE  REGE 

resident,  His  Excellency,  Earl  War 

Governor  of  Oalifornia, 
Sacramento  14  —  (Sacramento  24 

lairman.  Jama  K.  Moffirt, 
599  Eighth  St.,  San  Franciaco  3- 
(  Hemlock  2911) 

icretary  and  Treasurer,  Robert  M 
240  Administration  BldR.,  Berkel 
(Ashberry  6000,  Local  261) 
imptroller.  Jama  H.  Corley, 
250  Administration  Bldg.,  Berkel 
(Aahberry  6000.  Local  278) 

isistant  Secretary,  George  F.  Tayl 
101  Administration  Bldg.,  Loa  Ai 
(Bradshaw  2-2171) 

lorney  pro  temper*,  Ashley  H.  Ce 
910  Crocker  Bldg.,  San  Franciso 
(Sutter  4816) 

i 

tt     w 

z 

S 

& 

5 

w 
00 

3 

< 

•< 

Harriet  Siegel  Nathan 

Graduated  from  the  University  of  California, 
Berkeley,  in  1941  with  an  A.B.  in  Journalism. 
Was  assistant  women's  editor  and  managing 
editor  of  The  Daily  Calif ornian,  then  known 
as  the  Monarch  of  the  College  Dailies. 
Prepared  President  Sproul's  biennial  report 
to  the  legislature,  1942-44;  wrote  advertising 
copy;  edited  house  journals;  served  on  local 
and  state  boards  of  the  League  of  Women  Voters, 
primarily  in  the  fields  of  local  and  regional 
government  and  publications. 
Returned  to  U.C.  for  a  Master  of  Journalism 
degree  in  1965. 

Wrote  for  the  University's  Centennial  Record. 
Now  doing  research,  writing,  and  editing  for 
the  Institute  of  Governmental  Studies,  U.C., 
Berkeley. 


12  94 


