/jr/z/y/v/7 


r 


1976 ANNUAL REPORT 













ON THE COVER 

A. Pegasus, the prototype patrol 
hydrofoil missileship, has com¬ 
pleted U S. Navy evaluation. 

B Fourteen 747SPs, newest deriv¬ 
ative of Boeing's superjet, went 
into service with four airlines 
during 1976. 

C Three Boeing jets — 707 (with ra- 
dome), 727 and 737 — are shown 
at this Renton facility. 

D. The E-3A — the Air Force's air¬ 
borne warning and control sys¬ 
tem aircraft — has completed 
developmental testing and gone 
into production. 

E. The 727-200, newest version of 
the world's most widely sold 

rnmmorrial airliner 


CONTENTS 

Highlights 1 

Message to Stockholders 2 

Foreign Sales and 

Marketing Activities 4 

Boeing Commercial 

Airplane Company 5 

Boeing Aerospace 

Company 9 

Boeing Vertol Company 12 

Boeing Wichita Company 14 

Boeing Computer 

Services, Inc. 15 

Boeing Engineering and 
Construction 16 

Boeing Marine Systems 17 

Financial Review 18 

Accountants’ Report 20 

Financial Statements 21 

Five-Year Comparative 

Financial Data 28 

Board of Directors 30 

Organization and 

Mananpmont 













HIGHLIGHTS 



1976 


1975 

Sales. 

. . . $ 3 , 918 , 535,000 

$3,718,853,000 

Net earnings. 

Per average share outstanding . . . 

Per cent of sales. 

. . $ 102 , 895,000 

. . $ 4.85 

. . 2 . 63 % 


$76,347,000 

$3.60 

205% 

Stockholders’ equity. 

Shares outstanding at year end . . . 

Stockholders’ equity per share . . . 

$ 1 , 084 , 826,000 

21 , 236,789 

. . $ 51.08 

$1,010,093,000 

21.197,716 

$47.65 

Cash dividends paid. 

Per share. 

$ 26 , 525,000 

. . $ 1.25 

$ 

21,191,000 

$1.00 

Salaries and wages. 

Average number of employees . . . 

$ 1 , 207 , 062,000 

. . 65,400 

$1,222,364,000 

72,600 

Additions to plant, net. 

Depreciation of plant. 

$ 67 , 196,000 

$ 66 , 997,000 

$ 

$ 

70,843,000 

67,197,000 


Funded backlog at year end 


$ 3 , 959 , 850,000 $3,728,755,000 













MESSAGE TO STOCKHOLDERS 


Nineteen seventy-six proved to be a 
very good year for Boeing, marked by 
higher earnings, a continued im¬ 
provement in the company's overall 
financial position, and a strong year 
end backlog. An important develop¬ 
ment was the recovery of the domestic 
market for commercial jet transports. It 
brought U.S. orders above the level of 
foreign orders for the first time in seven 
years and assured strong commercial 
jet aircraft production through 1977 
and into 1978. Meanwhile the com¬ 
pany maintained a favorable level of 
government business. 

Sales of $3,919 million in 1976 were 
up from 1975 sales of $3,719 million, 
and the backlog stood at $3,960 mil¬ 
lion on December 31,1976, compared 
with $3,729 million at the end of 1975. 

Earnings increased from $76.3 mil¬ 
lion in 1975 to $102.9 million in 1976, 
raising earnings per share from $3.60 
in 1975 to $4.85. The increased earn¬ 
ings were achieved primarily because 
of continued favorable cost perform¬ 
ance on our commercial jet transport 
and major military programs and better 
than anticipated orders for standard- 
body jet transports. 

In recognition of the results achieved 
in 1976 and the continued im¬ 
provement in the company’s overall 
financial position, a special 25 cents 
per share dividend in addition to the 
regular quarterly dividend of 25 cents 
was paid in the fourth quarter of 1976. 
It brought total dividends for the year 
to $1.25 per share. The quarterly 
dividend rate was increased to 35 
cents per share beginning in the first 
quarter of 1977. 

During 1976 our customers an¬ 
nounced orders for 171 Boeing com¬ 
mercial airliners compared with 114 in 
1975. The value of these orders was 
$2.1 billion in 1976 compared with 
$1.4 billion in 1975. 

Our military markets remain sub¬ 
stantial with funded orders from the 
Department of Defense of $1.3 billion 
in 1976, the same value as in 1975. 
On-going programs made a significant 
contribution to sales and represent 
substantial future business potential. 
Several Boeing programs were revised 


in the budget proposed to Congress by 
the new Administration. The effects of 
these revisions are reflected in this 
report. 

During 1976 Boeing won the Air 
Force contract for the Compass Cope 
remotely piloted airplane. The com¬ 
pany also won the contract for the Air 
Force Interim Upper Stage — a solid- 
fueled tug designed to carry Space 
Shuttle-launched payloads from low 
Earth orbit to higher orbits or to propel 
them onto planetary trajectories. 

The company is involved in an Air 
Force competition for a new tanker/ 
cargo airplane. Its entry is a version of 
the commercial 747 which has an en¬ 
viable service record and unmatched 
capability to perform the required mili¬ 
tary missions. As a tanker, it could ini¬ 
tially supplement the fleet of KC-135s, 
both for refueling other cargo aircraft 
and for carrying petroleum products 
to overseas military theaters. As a 
freighter, it could be used to carry 
military cargo anywhere in the world. 
In either role, its combined payload 
and range capabilities surpass any 
aircraft now in operation. The Air Force 
procurement decision is not expected 
until 1978. 

A competition scheduled to be 
decided this year will determine if the 
Boeing YC-14, a short takeoff and 
landing transport, will qualify to enter 
the Air Force inventory. The YC-14 is a 
potential replacement for the C-130, a 
turbo-prop transport now providing 
tactical airlift for the U.S. Air Force. 

The E-3A Airborne Warning and 
Control System aircraft entered pro¬ 
duction in 1975 and sales are expect¬ 
ed to continue through the mid-1980s. 
If anticipated commitments from the 
North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
materialize, the total production run 
(domestic and foreign) could exceed 
50 units. 

The selection by the Army of a 
competitor, rather than Boeing Vertol, 
to produce the UTTAS helicopter was a 
major disappointment to the company. 
We are competing for an award from 
the Navy for a new helicopter which 
would extend the capabilities of naval 
surface ships in anti-submarine war¬ 


fare and surveillance roles. The winner 
of this program is scheduled to be an¬ 
nounced later this year. 

The potential market for commercial 
jet transports continues to be favora¬ 
ble. Greater anticipated growth, along 
with the need to replace aircraft in 
operation because of noise require¬ 
ments and fuel conservation, account 
for our continued belief in a sizable 
open market. The noise policy issued 
by the Department of Transportation 
last fall noted that nearly 80 per cent of 
the jetliners in domestic operation do 
not meet the latest noise regulations. 
Many of these aircraft can be modified 
to meet the regulations, but in the case 
of most of the older 707s and DC-8s 
replacement probably would be the 
desired option. Constant technical im¬ 
provements incorporated in the 727 
make this airplane increasingly attrac¬ 
tive in this replacement market. 

In the longer term, advanced tech¬ 
nology aircraft which could lower 
operating costs and solve the noise 
problem at the same time will be 
required. Boeing has been working on 
the design of two such aircraft — the 
7X7 and the 7N7 — which would meet 
the proposed noise regulations and 
provide substantial improvements in 
operating efficiency. Work began on 
the 7X7 several years ago and on the 
7N7 about a year ago. Our progress 
should permit us to move ahead on 
either program as soon as the market 
is ready. 

The company’s other programs — 
Jetfoil boats, rail cars, computer 
software and services, and energy and 
environmental systems — are moving 
ahead. The impact of the initial 
developmental, production and mar¬ 
keting activities is substantially behind 
us, and we are accumulating expe¬ 
rience which will enable us to develop 
future market potential in these areas. 

In summary, the company's outlook 
is promising. There is a growing need 
for new commercial jet transports for 
both airline growth and replacement 
aircraft. The replacement requirement 
will become more critical with time. 
Total traffic of the world’s scheduled 
airlines increased in 1976, rising about 


2 








Military derivatives of commercial transports and 727s and 747s for foreign 
and U.5. airlines in this Boeing Field flight line scene illustrate the mix of 
1976 airplane deliveries. The first three planes on the right are U.S. Air Force 


£-3As — 707s modified for the airborne warning and control system. The 
sixth and seventh in line are a 707 and 747 modified for use by the Imperial 
Iranian Air Force. 


10 per cent above 1975 traffic. The 
combination of air traffic growth and 
fleet modernization requirements in¬ 
dicates a future market of substantial 
proportions. 

Our current and potential military 
programs are both diverse and de¬ 
manding. Growing awareness of the 
military buildup by the Soviets has 
underscored the requirement that we 
replace obsolete equipment and add 
new equipment with advanced tech¬ 
nology to meet the threat. 

Our objective is to be a broad-based 
company with primary emphasis on 


high technology transportation, missile 
and space systems. Beyond that, our 
emphasis will be limited to certain 
elements of the energy and environ¬ 
mental business and computer ser¬ 
vices. 

Boeing is in a sound financial posi¬ 
tion, with well-developed markets and 
the technological base to respond 
rapidly to new commercial or military 
requirements. It has an experienced 
and highly capable work force sup¬ 


plied with excellent facilities and 
equipment. We face the future with 
substantial confidence. 


Chairman of the Board 
Chief Executive Officer 


President * 


March 7, 1977 


3 


















FOREIGN SALES AND MARKETING ACTIVITIES 


During the past year, the company's 
foreign sales activity has received 
considerable attention in the news 
media. While the company prefers to 
sell its products with its own sales 
force, sales representatives and con¬ 
sultants have been engaged from time 
to time to assist with sales in certain 
foreign countries where their use was 
deemed advisable for the successful 
conduct of business. Payments have 
been made to such representatives 
and consultants on a fixed fee retainer 
or contingent fee basis. 

Since January 1976 the Securities 
and Exchange Commission has been 
conducting a private investigation of 
certain payments by the company 
principally in connection with its for¬ 
eign business for the stated purpose of 
determining whether any person has 
been engaged or is about to engage in 
any acts or practices in violation of the 
Federal securities laws or rules or 
regulations promulgated thereunder. 

The Internal Revenue Service, 
through its audit and intelligence divi¬ 
sions, is reviewing the company’s in¬ 
come tax returns for the years 
1973-1975. As part of this review, the 
Service is investigating the company’s 
practices relative to commissions and 
consulting fees paid by the company in 
connection with its sales to foreign 
customers. 

The Federal Trade Commission is 
also conducting a nonpublic inves¬ 
tigation of several aircraft manufactur¬ 
ing companies, including the com¬ 
pany, to determine, among other 
things, whether such companies may 


be engaging, or may have engaged, in 
any unfair methods of competition or 
unfair or deceptive acts or practices in 
violation of law in connection with 
sales of aircraft and related services. 

The investigations of all three agen¬ 
cies are continuing and the company 
cannot predict what action, if any, will 
be taken upon completion of their in¬ 
vestigations. The company’s position 
is that it has complied with all applica¬ 
ble provisions of federal law, that 
commissions and consulting fees in¬ 
cluded in its income tax returns are 
properly deductible, and that adequate 
provision for income taxes has been 
made for the years 1973 through 
1976. 

Although a few of the persons who 
have received commission payments 
or fees from the company have held 
positions with their governments which 
might cause them to be deemed to 
be ’’public officials,” management be¬ 
lieves, based on the investigation to 
date, that none of such payments was 
illegal. Management is satisfied that all 
payments made with respect to foreign 
business have been identified in the 
company’s accounting records, that 
the company has made no illegal po¬ 
litical contributions, and that no funds 
have been diverted either directly or 
indirectly to so-called “slush funds.” 

Prior to commencement of any of 
the government investigations, man¬ 
agement, with the assistance of out¬ 
side counsel for the company, under¬ 
took a review of the same subject 
matter. The Board of Directors has 
received periodic reports from man¬ 


agement and from counsel concerning 
the progress of the investigations. Al¬ 
so, the Board and its Audit Committee, 
consisting of outside directors, have 
met with the company’s independent 
auditors to review matters appropriate 
to their responsibilities. 

The company has considered very 
carefully the extent to which informa¬ 
tion concerning the payments it makes 
with respect to business it conducts in 
foreign countries ought to be disclosed 
publicly. The company regards such 
information as the prices charged for 
its products, the amount it pays its 
consultants and, in some countries, 
the identity of its consultants, to be 
proprietary commercial information, 
the public disclosure of which is not in 
the best interests of the company or its 
stockholders. 

The company believes that it will be 
advisable for it to continue to engage 
consultants and pay commissions and 
financing and consulting fees in cer¬ 
tain countries for assistance in selling 
its products in those countries. In 
August 1976, the Board of Directors 
approved an updated policy statement 
and implementation instructions relat¬ 
ing to sales consultants, political con¬ 
tributions and financial records for¬ 
malizing requirements and procedures 
designed to assure the company that 
in conducting its business it will con¬ 
tinue at all times to be in full com¬ 
pliance with applicable laws, and that 
the nature and extent of all payments 
made by the company with respect to 
its foreign sales will continue to be ac¬ 
curately and properly recorded in the 
accounts of the company. 


4 












BOEING COMMERCIAL AIRPLANE COMPANY 


An unexpected surge of orders from 
United States airlines coupled with a 
continuation of recent levels of pur¬ 
chases from international customers, 
accounted for a significant upturn in 
new business for the Boeing Com¬ 
mercial Airplane Company during 
1976. 

For the first time in seven years 
orders from United States airlines, 103, 
exceeded those from foreign cus¬ 
tomers, 68. Improvement of the U.S. 
economy from 1974-75 recession 
levels, passenger traffic gains of ap¬ 
proximately 10 per cent, a desire to 
replace older equipment, and im¬ 
proved airline financial results were 
factors that influenced U.S. carriers to 
order jetliners in greater numbers dur¬ 
ing 1976. 

The level of orders of 1976 may or 


Of 27 747s delivered in 19 76, 20 went to foreign 
airlines. Four of the five in this Everett flight line 
photo were built for foreign customers, the fifth is a 



Orders for 114 727s in 1976 were more than 
double 1975 orders and brought total trijet orders 
since program began in 1960 to 1,357. 


may not continue in 1977, considering 
the problems still besetting U.S. air¬ 
lines. Their after-tax earnings for the 
past seven years are still less than half 
of the 12 per cent rate of return judged 
reasonable by the industry’s regula¬ 
tory agency. 

Late in the year, the Department of 
Transportation issued a new policy 
calling for engine modification or the 
replacement of all older aircraft in U.S. 
service which do not meet current 
noise standards. Approximately 1,050 
Boeing jets — and 1,650 aircraft in all 
— are affected. A financial proposal 
was set forth by the outgoing adminis¬ 
tration which would provide funds to 
the airlines to assist them in complying 
with the new noise rule. What the po¬ 
sition of the new Administration is and 
what action Congress will take on this 
proposal is unclear at the present time. 


NASA-owned plane modified at the Everett plant 
to cany the space shuttle orbiter. (See page 10) 


A British Airways 747 raises the dust of Lemoore 
Naval Air Station, Calif., as it takes off on a test 
flight at a gross weight of 840,500 pounds. The 


The U.S. airlines' replacement re¬ 
quirements continue to grow. The 
average age of the U.S. airline fleet has 
been increasing yearly as new jetliner 
purchase decisions were deferred 
during the early 1970s. Company 
studies show that on the average, in 
the next five to seven years the U.S. 
trunk system should be replacing older 
jetliners at the rate of 170 airplanes 
each year. 

Announced orders for the com¬ 
pany’s commercial jetliners in 1976 
totaled 171, an increase of 57 over 

1975. The new orders were valued at 
about $2.1 billion, also a substantial 
increase from the previous year. In all, 
the free world’s airlines placed orders 
for more than $3.4 billion of new 
equipment from all manufacturers in 

1976, compared to $2.3 billion in 
1975. 



Boeing's 737 continues to gain popularity on high 
frequency routes and with airlines serving difficult 
or high altitude airports. 


plane climbed to 2,000 meters (6,562 feet) in 6 
minutes, 33 seconds to set a new world's heavy lift 
record. 




5 




























The importance of the world market to the company as well 
as the significance of Boeing's contribution to a favorable 
* balance of trade can be seen in this depiction showing, in 
red, those countries which are customers for Boeing 707, 
727, 737 or 747 jet transports. 



Orders for the 727 increased to 114 
airplanes, compared to 50 ordered the 
previous year. At year end orders for 
1,357 727s had been announced 
since the program started in 1960. 
Other new orders, by model, were: 
four 707s, thirty-nine 737s, and four¬ 
teen 747s. Nine new Boeing cus¬ 
tomers placed orders. Cumulative jet 
transport orders — dating from Boe¬ 
ing’s entry into the market in 1955 — 
passed the 3,000 mark during the 
year. 

The largest order of the year was 
placed by United Airlines for twenty- 



Hong Kong Air Cargo Terminal where a freight 
handling system was installed by Commercial 
Airplane subsidiary, Boeing Aerosystems. 


eight 727s. It was Boeing’s first order 
from United since 1967. The 727s will 
replace, on a one-to-one basis, Unit¬ 
ed’s oldest four-engine jet transports. 
United officials noted that the 727 will 
be 33 per cent more fuel efficient than 
the airplanes it will replace, in addition 
to meeting all federal noise standards. 

The attractiveness of the 727 for 
airlines desiring to modernize their 
fleets, or with requirements for an in¬ 
termediate-range aircraft providing 
route and schedule flexibility, contin¬ 
ued during the year. In the United 
States, Delta Air Lines and American 



Flight simulators in which 75 0 airline crew 
members were trained by Boeing in 1976 are now 
using computer-generated visual systems. 


Airlines placed orders for 25 and 16 of 
the trijets, respectively. Singapore Air¬ 
lines purchased 727s for the first time, 
selecting the airplane after intensive 
competition. Alitalia, the Italian flag 
carrier, took delivery of seven 727s 
and announced that its new trijet fleet 
would save the airline $1 million a year 
over older aircraft being retired. 

The 737, continuing a trend of 
several years, added seven more cus¬ 
tomers during 1976, bringing the total 
to 65. Olympic Airlines of Greece in¬ 
troduced the 737 into commercial 
service. Other new customers were 
Maersk Air of Denmark, Yemen Air, 
Gulf Air, Thai Airways, Southwest Air 
Lines (Okinawa) and the Government 
of Venezuela. The 737 continues to 
maintain its popularity on high- 
frequency routes between population 
centers, while at the same time serving 
some of the most difficult and remote 
airfields in the world with outstanding 
reliability. 

The 707 remains in production at a 
rate of about one each month. Military 
derivatives (AWACS) and the ability to 
modify the airplane for executive trans- 
















portation accounts for most current 
707 interest. 

Early in 1977 the company and CFM 
International, a joint company of 
SNECMA of France and General Elec¬ 
tric Co., signed an agreement to con¬ 
duct a development and flight test 
program leading toward certification of 
the new CFM56 engine on the 707. 
This program could potentially lead to 
additional commercial and military in¬ 
terest in the 707 in the 1980s. The 
CFM56 engine, currently under devel¬ 
opment, has thrust of about 22,000 



Increased deliveries of spares — 4 00,000 items to 
190 customers — contributed to commercial 
transport sales total set in 1976. 


pounds, entails modern high by-pass 
engine technology with better fuel 
efficiency, and substantially improved 
noise characteristics over the engines 
now being utilized on the 707 airplane. 
Flight tests will begin in 1979. 

Late in 1976, the 300th 747 was 
rolled from the factory. Since entering 
service, 747s have carried more than 
132 million passengers worldwide. The 
newest derivative of the Superjet, the 
747SP, went into service in April and 
quickly lived up to its promise of at¬ 
tracting passengers on long-range 
nonstop routes. At year’s end 14 
747SPs were in service with four air¬ 
lines: Pan American, South African 
Airways, Iran Air and Syrianair. 

Pan American inaugurated nonstop 
New York-Tokyo service with the 
747SP in April, and then added Los 
Angeles-Tokyo. Late in the year, the 
airplane began nonstop service be¬ 
tween San Francisco and New Zea- 
land-Australia, and New York-Bahrain. 

In May, Pan American established 
new world speed and point-to-point 
records with a 747SP named “Clipper 


Liberty Bell," on a round-the-world 
flight that took only 46 hours and 
required just two refueling stops. 

South African Airways, which has 
five 747SPs in service, put on a spec¬ 
tacular display of the airplane’s 
capability on its initial delivery flight. 
The SP departed from Everett, Wash¬ 
ington, and flew the 10,290 miles to 
Cape Town, South Africa, nonstop in 
17 hours, 22 minutes, a world’s record 
distance for commercial airplanes. 

The first 747 powered by Rolls- 
Royce engines, which initially flew in 
September, is scheduled to complete 
testing and gain certification by U.S. 
and British regulatory agencies early 
this spring. British Airways will take 
delivery of the first of six airplanes of 
this newest version in the same time 
period. 

Other significant activity included a 
demonstration of 747 growth potential, 
accomplished when a 747 set a new 
world weight-lifting record by taking off 
at a gross weight of 840,500 pounds. 

At the end of the year, the combined 
monthly production rate for all aircraft 


7 













Commercial Airplane's customer support orga¬ 
nization performed its largest aircraft repair job in 
78 days to return this 747 to the air. 


models was 9Vz airplanes. However, 
primarily as a result of increased 727 
orders during 1976, production will be 
accelerated in 1977, resulting in a 
combined average monthly rate of 
about 15 airplanes in the latter part of 
the year. 

Further progress was made on 7X7 
developments during the year, with the 
emphasis still directed at a medium- 
range airplane in the 180 to 200- 
passenger category. There was a 
substantial effort oriented to working 
with the airlines in establishing a final 
configuration most appropriate to sat¬ 
isfying their requirements. This has 
involved design analyses, mockup 
construction, and wind tunnel testing 
to establish performance characteris¬ 
tics of both two- and three-engine 
versions of this aircraft. 

Another development program 
which received considerable attention 
by our design and marketing staffs in 
1976 is known by the designation 7N7. 
The program, as now conceived, 
would cover a medium-range market 
area involving aircraft with capacities 
ranging from 130 to 160 passengers. It 
would utilize two engines — either new 
or derivatives of present-day high by¬ 
pass engines — for maximum gains in 
reduction of community noise and 
decreased fuel consumption per pas¬ 
senger mile flown. Coordination with 
airlines also took place on 7N7. 

It is uncertain which of the two pro¬ 
grams — 7X7 or 7N7 — will proceed 
into production first. With development 
activity continuing simultaneously, the 
company is in the position to move on 
either program, depending on how the 


airline markets develop and the corre¬ 
sponding airline interest. 

The timing of a production go- 
ahead for a new airplane program is 
still uncertain, although there is con¬ 
sensus that airplanes in the size and 
range categories we have been 
developing are required for the early 
1980s. 

Discussions have continued with 
respect to possible foreign collabora¬ 
tion on our new airplane projects. 
Such talks will continue during 1977 
with various international aerospace 
interests. 

Boeing Aerosystems, which pro¬ 
vides air transportation services 
worldwide, made significant gains in 
1976. Aerosystems completed a con¬ 
tract to supply and install the cargo¬ 
handling system for Hong Kong’s new 
air cargo terminal. New assignments 
range from providing technical man¬ 
agement assistance on the Salt Lake 
City airport expansion program to be¬ 
ing a member of the team selected to 
complete a master plan and design for 
a third major airport in Saudi Arabia. 
Work continues in Angola where Ae¬ 
rosystems has a contract to install an 
air traffic control and communications 
system. 

The customer support organization 
continues to be extremely important in 
maintaining strong post-delivery rela¬ 
tionships with our customers. The 
company’s reputation for support has 
been a key element in acquiring new 
business. 

The group’s 1,400 employees 
provide customer airlines with spares, 
training and field support services. 
During 1976, the company shipped 
more than 400,000 line items of spares 
to 190 customers. 

Training activity was particularly 
heavy in 1976. Nearly 2,000 airline 
employees received maintenance 
training at Boeing facilities, bringing 
the total to 41,500 since the program 
began in 1957. In addition, 750 airline 
flight crew personnel, including pilots 
and flight engineers, attended Boeing 
training, bringing the 10-year total to 
5,200. The customer support organ¬ 


ization placed in operation the most 
advanced computer-generated color 
visual system in the world. This system, 
which simulates realistic day and night 
flying conditions, is in use in all four of 
the company’s commercial flight 
simulators. 

Higher than anticipated orders in 
1976 will insure strong production 
output through 1977 and into 1978. 
How this new order momentum will 
carry over into 1977 and through the 
remainder of the decade hinges on 
continued traffic growth, world 
economic stability and the financial 
position of the U.S. airlines. Although 
the U.S. airlines' outlook appears to be 
improving, uncertainties with respect 
to regulatory reform and what me¬ 
chanism the government will use to 
help the airlines meet the costs of re¬ 
placing or retrofitting airplanes for 
noise improvement cloud the im¬ 
mediate horizon. Worldwide, the es¬ 
calating cost of jet fuel has a negative 
impact on the airline industry. 

Even with an uncertain market, 
however, the company's family of 
commercial jetliners has remained 
highly competitive, and we are contin¬ 
uing to develop and incorporate im¬ 
provements. The company’s emphasis 
on advanced technology research and 
engineering development of new air¬ 
plane designs is predicated on the 
emerging need for newer, more 
ecologically oriented, and fuel-efficient 
aircraft in the 1980s. Our intent is to be 
able to respond rapidly with a new 
program when market conditions 
warrant. 



A possible trijet configuration of the 7X7 under¬ 
goes wind tunnel testing. Two-engine models have 
also been tested and evaluated. 


8 










BOEING AEROSPACE COMPANY 



Two prototype YC-I4s, Boeing entries in the Air Force's Advanced Medium 1976. A unique powered-lift system is designed to permit the YC-14 to 

STOL (short takeoff-and-landing) Transport program, began flight tests in operate out of short, undeveloped airfields. 


Boeing Aerospace Company 
scored several key competitive wins in 
the military and space fields, and end¬ 
ed the year involved in a number of 
competitions which offer the prospect 
of substantial growth in business 
volume. 

Looking to the years immediately 
ahead, however, the company faces 
more than the usual uncertainties. 
Decisions still pending — involving, for 
example, the B-1 bomber and the air- 
launched cruise missile — will be 
based on complex international con¬ 
siderations. Still other programs await 
the results of major competitions in 
which the company is engaged. 

Fortunately, the company has sev¬ 
eral programs which face no critical 
decision point in 1977 and therefore 
should remain stable this year. In the 
present environment, however, it is 
particularly important that we seek out 
new opportunities for expansion of our 
business base. 

To pursue some of these oppor¬ 
tunities, we have established two new 
organizations. One offers innovative 


and cost-effective ways for the armed 
services to meet their logistics require¬ 
ments. The other will seek research, 
development and production pro¬ 
grams related primarily to naval air and 
shipboard weapon systems. 

The company’s principal customer 
continues to be the U.S. Air Force. An 
important Air Force competition pres¬ 
ently under way is the Advanced 
Medium STOL (short takeoff-and- 
landing) Transport program, intended 
to select a successor to the widely 
used C-130 Hercules. For this compe¬ 
tition, Boeing has built two prototypes 
called YC-14s, both of which entered 
flight test during the latter half of the 
year. 

After demonstrating the basic air¬ 
worthiness and structural integrity of 
the Boeing design, the prototypes 
were flown to Edwards Air Force Base 
in California, where they are pro¬ 
gressing very well in their test program. 
These aircraft are equipped with ad¬ 
vanced digital electronic flight control 
systems and a powered-lift system 
called upper surface blowing. They are 


designed to carry heavy cargo loads in 
and out of short, undeveloped airfields. 

During the year, Boeing completed 
developmental testing and continued 
production of AWACS, which the Air 
Force has designated the E-3A. A 
command and control system intend¬ 
ed to increase the effectiveness of both 
air defense and tactical air power, the 
E-3A consists of radar and other elec¬ 
tronics mounted in a 707 airframe. 
Funding has been approved for six¬ 
teen E-3As, with the first being 
delivered to the Air Force in March, 
1977. Total Air Force fleet require¬ 
ments for the system, however, are 
under review. 

By year end, nearly 4,000 flight 
hours had been compiled by the E-3A 
test fleet. The flights included par¬ 
ticipation in three major war-game ex¬ 
ercises which demonstrated that the 
system will significantly improve the 
command and control of U.S. forces in 
combat. 

In December, NATO defense minis¬ 
ters announced a decision "in princi¬ 
ple” to purchase AWACS for strength- 


9 













Developmental testing was completed and produc- airborne warning and control system aircraft. 

Hon continued in 1976 on the Air Force's E-3A Nearly 4,000 hours of flight testing by the 


Boeing-built E-3A fleet included participation in 
three major war game exercises. 



ening European air defenses. NATO is 
studying Boeing proposals which offer 
a variety of alternatives. 

The company's principal B-1 stra¬ 
tegic bomber assignment has been to 
develop and integrate the sophisticat¬ 
ed electronics system which navigates 
the aircraft to its target, manages its 
weapons inventory, and ensures ac¬ 
curate placement of the weapons on 
target. In addition, Boeing is develop¬ 
ing key portions of the defensive sys¬ 
tem and integrating the entire elec¬ 
tronics system into the aircraft. 

A B-1 test aircraft, equipped with 
Boeing-developed offensive electron¬ 
ics, carried out a highly successful 
flight test program during the year. The 
avionics system proved that it met, and 
in many cases exceeded, the require¬ 
ments specified by the Air Force. A 
measure of Boeing’s performance is 
the fact that its B-1 Avionics team 
earned a second 100 per cent incen¬ 
tive award for its work on this program. 
A similar honor for this team in 1975 
was the first 100 per cent award ever 
granted on a major Air Force program. 

The Air Force’s November decision 
to implement limited production of the 
B-1 strategic bomber resulted in a 
contract under which Boeing will sup¬ 
ply offensive avionics for the first three 
production aircraft. 


A major competitive win for Boeing 
during 1976 was a contract for the 
design, fabrication and flight test of 
three Compass Cope remotely piloted 
vehicles (RPVs). Compass Cope is the 
first RPV program in which the pilot 
remains on the ground, flying and 
landing the vehicle through data links. 
The Boeing craft can fly 24-hour mis¬ 
sions at high altitude, performing such 
functions as battlefield surveillance, 
communications relay, weather moni¬ 
toring and ocean surveillance. 

Developmental work continued on 
the Air Force’s E-4B Airborne Com¬ 
mand Post, which will carry an elec¬ 
tronics system more advanced than 
the initial A model, three of which are 


A 747 modified by Boeing for the assignment car¬ 
ries NASA's Space Shuttle Orbiter in the first of a 
series of tests to prove the spacecraft's landing 


now in service. Both models (A and B) 
are modified 747s, to be used for 
command and control of U.S. forces in 
a national emergency. For the E-4B, 
the company installed and certificated 
a 1,200 KVA (kilovolt-ampere) elec¬ 
trical power system, the largest ever 
developed for airborne application. 

Another derivative of the 747 pre¬ 
sents one of the major business op¬ 
portunities for the future. This is the 
company's entry in the Air Force’s 
Advanced Tanker/Cargo Aircraft com¬ 
petition. In our proposal, submitted late 
in 1976, Boeing is offering a version of 
the 747. With fuel tanks positioned in 
the cargo hold, the 747’s main deck 
would be available for military cargo. 


capabilities. The orbiter weighs 144,000 pounds 
and is about the same length — 122 feet — as a 
Boeing 727-100 trijet. 



10 












Boeing has won contract to build three Compass 
Cope planes which can be flown on high altitude 
missions by a pilot on the ground. 


A drive-on/drive-off loading ramp for use with 
military cargo on 747 freighters, developed by 
Boeing, can be deployed within eight minutes of the 


plane's arrival. Ramp is strong enough to load any 
piece of U.S. Army equipment that can fit into the 
freighter. 


Because the 747 can carry more fuel 
and more cargo — and carry it farther 
— than any other aircraft, the company 
believes it is ideally suited for 
this mission. The Air Force procure¬ 
ment decision on this program, origin¬ 
ally expected in the spring of 1977, has 
been postponed for a year. The delay 
permits further study of future tanker 
and airlift requirements and the most 
cost-effective ways to meet them. 

Boeing is seeking a major role in the 
development of the Air Force’s M-X, a 
mobile intercontinental ballistic missile, 
and already has won two develop¬ 
mental contracts. The company's 
primary interest is in assembly and 
testing of missiles and ground support 
and communications equipment. 

On the present Minuteman ICBM, 
improvements to the system continued 
through 1976. Authorized funding will 
extend some program activities until 
late 1978. 

During the year Boeing began flight 
testing of the Air Launched Cruise 
Missile, for which the company is 
prime contractor for airframe and inte¬ 
gration. Current major activity involves 
preparation for full-scale development. 

Production of another air-launched 
missile, the Short Range Attack Missile 
(SRAM), may be reactivated. Though 


no production decision has been 
made, the Air Force has authorized 
Boeing to assemble a team of suppliers 
and prepare to build an improved ver¬ 
sion of the missile. The present SRAM 
is deployed by the Strategic Air Com¬ 
mand on its bombers. 

Manufacture and testing of com¬ 
ponents for the U.S. Roland surface- 
to-air missile system continued, in 
preparation for delivery of the first fire 
unit and test missiles during 1977. 
Boeing is the principal subcontractor 
to Hughes Aircraft Company and a 
joint licensee to produce this Euro¬ 
pean-developed weapon in the U.S. 
The supersonic missiles will be used by 
the U.S. Army for short-range, low-al¬ 
titude defense against aircraft. 



Boeing participation in the Minuteman ICBM 
Force Improvement Program continued in 1976. 
Part of the missile suspension system, left, is 


Additional Army business was ac¬ 
quired when Boeing was awarded the 
Designating Optical Tracker flight pro¬ 
gram. This program is designed to ob¬ 
tain data for ballistic missile defense at 
the outer edge of the atmosphere. The 
company’s assignment involves the 
design, development and testing 
required to support and conduct flight 
tests of sensor vehicles. 

Winning another 1976 competition 
enabled the company to expand its 
role in the nation’s space program. 
This new contract, with the Air Force, 
calls for the design and validation of a 
family of upper stages for payloads 
launched from NASA's Space Shuttle. 
Called Interim Upper Stages (IUS), 
these vehicles will carry Shuttle 



prepared for installation. At right, both the sus¬ 
pension system and the missile, minus warhead, 
are shown in the launch silo. 


11 



















Boeing is prime contractor for airframe and inte¬ 
gration of the Air Launched Cruise Missile which 
underwent flight tests in 1976. 


payloads from low earth orbits to 
higher mission orbits and to planetary 
trajectories. Full-scale development is 
expected to follow, culminating in the 
first free flight of a Shuttle-launched 
IUS in 1980. A potential total of 197 
IUS payloads has been identified by 
NASA and the Department of Defense. 

Another Shuttle-related task was 
completed in 1976 with the conversion 
of a NASA-owned 747 into a carrier for 
the Shuttle’s Orbiters. The aircraft has 
completed flight testing with the Or- 
biter atop its fuselage and is preparing 
for this summer's mission of launching 



Aerospace Company technicians check the base 
module of a satellite to be launched as one of 
NASA's Applications Explorer Missions. 


this highly visible passenger on glide 
and landing tests in California. When 
the Shuttle program becomes opera¬ 
tional, the 747 will be used for trans¬ 
porting the reusable Orbiter from the 
re-entry landing area to launch site. 

During 1977 the company hopes to 
achieve further expansion of its role 
both in exploring space and in 
developing additional applications for 
space technology. In the latter cat¬ 
egory, Boeing was awarded a NASA 
contract to continue its studies of the 
feasibility of constructing huge satel¬ 
lites to transform the sun's rays into 



Forward-looking radar unit, part of the B-l stra¬ 
tegic bomber's avionics system, undergoes testing at 
Boeing's Developmental Center. 


electricity for household and industrial 
use. The company plans also to com¬ 
pete for the assignment to design, 
develop, fabricate and assemble the 
support systems module for NASA’s 
2.4-meter Space Telescope, an in¬ 
strument which will greatly increase 
astronomers’ ability to study the 
universe. 

During 1976, the company per¬ 
formed well on existing programs while 
pursuing a number of high-tech¬ 
nology opportunities which hold good 
potential for broadening its future bus¬ 
iness base. 


BOEING VERTOL COMPANY 

Vertol was unsuccessful in its bid to 
win the U S. Army’s Utility Tactical 
Transport Aircraft System (UTTAS) 
production competition. Vertol's air¬ 
craft was a strong competitor offer¬ 
ing advanced technology including a 
hingeless rotor, fiberglass blades and 
a dynamic drive system with very high 
reliability. The Army cited lower pro¬ 
gram schedule risk as the principal 
reason for its choice in this very close 
competition. 

The company is now concentrating 
its efforts on winning the U.S. Navy's 
Light Airborne Multi-Purpose System 
(LAMPS) program. The Vertol LAMPS 
proposal is based on adapting the 
same advanced technology incorpor¬ 
ated in the company’s UTTAS design 
and providing a system that substan¬ 
tially increases the Navy’s overall mis¬ 
sion capability with minimal technical 
risk. The Navy program includes a 
3'/2-year development phase, utilizing 


six pre-production aircraft and leading 
to a production contract in 1980. 
Selection of a single aircraft contractor 
is expected during the second quarter 
of this year. Production of over 200 
aircraft is planned. 

Production continued on the CH-47 
Chinook, with 15 new aircraft delivered 


Vertol's Light Rail Vehicles began operating in 
Boston in December when severe storms disrupted 
other rail services. By year end, 28 cars had been 


to the U.S. Army and 9 to Agusta, our 
Italian licensee. In addition, a contract 
was negotiated for the delivery of 12 
aircraft to the Army in 1977. 

In June, 1976, a contract was 
negotiated with the Army for the 
development of a modernized CH-47, 
with advancements in its electrical, 


shipped to Boston. LR V deliveries to San Francisco 
are scheduled for 1978. 



12 


















A mockup of the U.S. Navy's Light Airborne Multi-Purpose System pre-production aircraft in a iVi-year development phase and an ultimate 
(LAMPS) helicopter. Vertol is competing for a contract to manufacture six production contract for approximately 200 aircraft. 


mechanical and avionics systems, as 
well as the incorporation of new 
fiberglass rotor blades and improved 
engines. This development effort is 
expected to lead to production con¬ 
tracts for fleet modernization of all U.S. 
Army CH-47 aircraft. 

Development of the CH-46E heli¬ 
copter through a prototype moder¬ 
nization program was completed suc¬ 
cessfully and on schedule in 1976. 
Vertol is currently producing mod¬ 
ernization kits to be installed by the 
Navy. The Navy plans to update 276 
CH-46 aircraft to the "E” configura¬ 
tion. Installation will begin this year. 

In conjunction with the CH-46E 
program, a significant achievement in 
the helicopter industry occurred in 
December 1976 when Vertol man¬ 
ufactured the first production-tooled 
fiberglass rotor blade in the United 
States, using company-developed 
production techniques and tooling. 
The company expects to produce 
5,500 rotor blades to replace current 
blades on Boeing helicopters in the 
U.S. Army and Navy fleets. 

During 1976, Vertol (under license 
from Messerschmitt-Bolkow-Blohm 
GmbH) sold 18 BO-105 commercial 
helicopters. The major markets are for 
executive transport and servicing of 
offshore oil fields. 

Vertol's surface transportation pro¬ 


grams made good progress during 
1976. Passenger service with Light 
Rail Vehicles (LRV) began in Boston on 
December 30, a week earlier than 
planned because of a major snow¬ 
storm which disrupted other rail ser¬ 
vice. The new cars performed well 
under overloaded conditions and pas¬ 
senger reaction was excellent. By year 
end, 28 LRVs had been shipped to 
Boston. 

By the end of 1977, Boston will have 
received 131 Light Rail Vehicles, with 
production deliveries to San Francisco 
beginning in 1978. The completion of 
current orders, which include 175 cars 
for Boston and 100 for San Francisco, 
is expected in early 1979. There ap¬ 
pears to be a sizable market in the 
future for the LRV as a replacement 
vehicle in cities with existing streetcar 
and trolley lines, and for cities con¬ 
templating new rail transit systems. 
Plans are being considered to demon¬ 
strate the LRVs in Pittsburgh, Phil¬ 
adelphia and Newark. 

Four prototype Rapid Transit cars 
are carrying passengers in Chicago as 
part of a revenue service evaluation 
program initiated in October, 1976. 
These cars, the first of a 200-car order 
for the Chicago Transit Authority, have 
demonstrated the successful achieve¬ 
ment of major technical and perfor¬ 
mance requirements. Delivery of 
production vehicles is expected to 


begin early this year. 

Chicago has requirements for an 
additional 550 cars over the next five to 
eight years. The company is pursuing 
this opportunity for “follow-on” busi¬ 
ness in Chicago and anticipates that 
other markets will develop. 

The company is managing two rail 
car development programs for the U.S. 
Department of Transportation. One of 
the programs consists of the develop¬ 
ment and demonstration of two 
State-of-the-Art cars. These cars have 
been in revenue service between 
Philadelphia and southern New Jersey 
and are scheduled for modification by 
incorporation of advanced subsystems 
in 1977 under the continuing develop¬ 
ment program. The other program in¬ 
volves the development of an Ad¬ 
vanced Concept Train which will be 
tested in 1977 prior to a revenue ser¬ 
vice demonstration tour in five selected 
U.S. cities. 



Update program for 276 Navy CH-46E heli¬ 
copters includes first production-tooled fiberglass 
rotor blades in U.S., made by Vertol. 


13 













BOEING WICHITA COMPANY 



During 1976 the programs of the 
Boeing Wichita Company included 
military aircraft modernization, com¬ 
mercial aircraft modification, avionics 
and the manufacture of parts and as¬ 
semblies for Boeing’s commercial jet 
transports. 

In the field of military aircraft, prin¬ 
cipal effort was devoted to support of 
the B-52 and KC-135 weapon sys¬ 
tems. Substantial effort was also 
directed at the preparation of a competi¬ 
tive proposal for B-52/KC-135 sim¬ 
ulator trainers. 

Structural improvements to extend 
the service life of B-52D aircraft con¬ 
tinued throughout the year and at year 
end the last of 80 Air Force bombers 
were being prepared for flight test and 
delivery. 

The KC-135 was involved in three 
programs: fabrication and installation 
of wing re-skin improvement kits for 
the tanker were continued; a con¬ 
tracted study to define potential 
KC-135 performance improvements, 
including the installation of new en¬ 
gines, was completed; and a five-year 
KC-135 depot maintenance contract 
with the Air Force ended in mid-1976 


The capabilities of the 747 and increasing use of 
air freight by shippers have resulted in an active 
program at Wichita to convert passenger model 


A structural modification program to extend the 
service life of 80 Air Force B52Ds was carried out 

with redelivery of the last of 763 
tankers to undergo modification. 

In the field of avionics, a study was 
made under a contract with the Air 
Force to define low-life-cycle-cost 
avionics. A program to develop this 
technology and to apply it in updating 


747s to cargo carriers. Conversion includes in¬ 
stallation of side-loading door, above, and a cargo¬ 
handling system. 


at Wichita. Work included replacement of each 
plane's inboard wing structure. 

the offensive avionics of strategic 
bombers, including production of pro¬ 
totype hardware and testing with a 
B-52, is scheduled for 1977. 

Also in avionics, work continued on 
the B-1 bomber, including in-flight 
operation and pre-production planning 
of the airplane’s electro-optical view¬ 
ing system. 

Support of other company orga¬ 
nizations in the development and 
production of their products continued 
as a major element of company busi¬ 
ness. Major structural components for 
jet airliners were produced, including 
fabricated parts and assemblies for the 
707, the center engine inlet and duct 
for the 727, the fuselage and empen¬ 
nage structure for the 737, the forward 
body section for the 747 and cargo 
handling provisions for 747 freighters. 

Nine 747 freighter conversions were 
completed for commercial and non- 
U.S. government customers, including 
American Airlines, Pan American 
World Airways and the Government of 
Iran. 

Wichita’s Nacelle/Noise Abatement 
branch fabricated struts and nacelles 
for the YC-14 prototypes and for 
CF6-50 and JT9D-70 engines used on 
747s. 



14 















BOEING COMPUTER SERVICES, INC, 



Employees of Western Bancorporation's United 
California Bank are the first to participate in a 


During 1976, Boeing Computer 
Services, Inc. (BCS) continued to 
provide all computing services tor 
Boeing operating organizations while 
expanding its commercial customer 
base by more than 25 per cent. Taking 
advantage of current computer and 
communications technology, utiliza¬ 
tion of new major systems is being 
expanded to additional Boeing oper¬ 
ating organizations and plant loca¬ 
tions. For example, use of the on-line 
production planning system was ex¬ 
panded to all divisions of the Com¬ 
mercial Airplane Company and to the 
Aerospace Company; also, large de¬ 
velopment expenditures were avoided 
at Vertol when seven major systems, 
which are in use in Seattle and/or Wi¬ 
chita, were either installed at Vertol or 
made available by teleprocessing from 
Seattle. 

Progress also was evident in the 
commercial business. New orders in¬ 
creased by 14 per cent and sales in¬ 
creased by 23.4 per cent over 1975. 
Major orders included a contract from 
Western Bancorporation for training 
bank tellers in the use of a new on-line 
system. This program is being de¬ 
veloped and administered via a com¬ 
puter-based instruction system which 


computer-assisted teller training program devel¬ 
oped by Boeing Computer Services. 


allows tellers to receive their training 
through the same equipment they later 
will operate. Training of 7,000 tellers in 
over 700 bank offices will be conduct¬ 
ed over a two-year period. 

Under a recently awarded Air Force 
contract BCS will implement and 
maintain the airborne and ground 
support computer software for the 


Use of the BCS/Boeing computer-aided design/ 
computer-aided manufacture program expanded in 
1976. Airplane parts are manufactured from 


E-3A airborne warning and control 
system, and will provide operational 
support for the computer programs. 

New products which will augment 
BCS's commercial marketing thrust in 
the financial marketplace are being 
announced. One is an executive infor¬ 
mation service to provide financial 
managers and analysts with informa¬ 
tion for planning corporate strategies, 
analyzing financial trends, estimating 
costs, and comparing budgets against 
actual expenditures. 

Through the expansion of BCS data 
communications in 1976, computer 
access now is available in 51 cities in 
North America and the United King¬ 
dom. Through the use of minicom¬ 
puters to eliminate transmission errors 
and other means, the quality of the 
communications network is continually 
being improved. 

BCS and its subsidiaries finished 
1976 with 27 sales offices, 12 data 
centers and a $160 million equipment 
base to provide The Boeing Company 
and BCS’s commercial and govern¬ 
ment customers in the United States, 
Canada and Europe with local and 
remote computing, facility man¬ 
agement, custom programming, ap¬ 
plication packages, training and con¬ 
sulting services. 


computer-aided designs on numerically-controlled 
machines programmed through computers at Boe¬ 
ing's Auburn fabrication facility. 



15 











BOEING ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION 



The Bonneville Power Administration controls its 
eastern subtransmission power grid with a com¬ 
puter-based data acquisition and control system 

Boeing Engineering and Construc¬ 
tion (BEC) continued to develop its 
energy and environment business 
areas. 

Contracts in the nuclear power area 
included equipment, construction, and 
research and development. BEC is 
manufacturing large stainless steel 
pool liners for storage and handling of 
fuel assemblies for two nuclear plants 
and providing services on nuclear fuel 
enrichment programs, waste leak de¬ 
tection systems, and transport systems 
for spent nuclear fuel. 

BEC’s general construction sub¬ 
sidiary, BOECON, is constructing 
major concrete installations and as¬ 
sociated support buildings at several 
nuclear plants. In a joint venture with 
another construction company, BOE¬ 
CON is building a facility in Idaho for 
treatment of radioactive liquid waste. 
BOECON also has a Navy contract for 
construction of a coal-fired steam 
plant. 

Energy from solar power plants and 
other advanced sources was another 
prime area of activity. One BEC solar 
power plant development program 
employs a field of reflectors enclosed 
in plastic hemispheres which are 
computer controlled to reflect the 
sun’s image onto a central receiving 


delivered by BEC. Similar systems are being de¬ 
veloped for BPA's western area and a Bureau of 
Reclamation power installation. 

tower where the heat is converted into 
steam. BEC has study contracts in 
other new technology areas for ad¬ 
vanced energy storage systems and 
for recovery of recyclable materials, 
including fuel, from municipal solid 
waste and sludges. 

Under contract with a British oil 
company, BEC provided project man¬ 
agement support and consulting en¬ 
gineering services for placement of a 
deep-water oil production platform in 
the North Sea off the coast of Scot¬ 
land. Weighing over 34,000 tons and 
rising 606 feet from the bottom of the 
sea, the platform was the largest yet 
constructed. 



BEC took part in the project that placed a 606-foot 
oil production platform — largest ever constructed 
for the North Sea — near Scotland. 


BEC increased its involvement in 
computer-based data acquisition and 
control systems for electric utilities. A 
major system was delivered to the 
Bonneville Power Administration for 
control of its eastern subtransmission 
power grid. Similar systems were 
under development for BPA's western 
area and for the Bureau of Reclama¬ 
tion for control of three hydroelectric 
dams and an associated power trans¬ 
mission system in the Southwest. 

In the environmental field, emphasis 
again was placed on municipal and 
industrial water cleanup. BOECON 
continued to be active in the field of 
water treatment, with construction 
projects under way on municipal 
wastewater treatment plants, related 
pumping stations and other facilities. 
Resources Conservation Co., owned 
jointly by affiliates of Boeing and two 
other companies, increased its brine 
concentrator orders by electric utilities 
to 11 units. The brine concentrator 
removes pollutants and produces pure 
water suitable either for recycling in- 
plant or for return to river systems. In 
1976, three new units of this type 
began handling the cooling tower 
waste of two electrical generating sta¬ 
tions in Montana and Colorado. Four 
more are under construction at sites in 
Colorado and New Mexico. At a 
remote installation in Canada, another 
brine concentrator began purifying 
brackish ground water for industrial 
plant processes and for human 
consumption. 



BEC solar energy experiments include plastic 
domed heliostats containing mirrors 75 feet in 
diameter, located near Boardman, Oregon. 


16 














BOEING MARINE SYSTEMS 



The U.S. Navy's operational evaluation of Pegasus, the Boeing-built 
prototype patrol hydrofoil missileship, was completed in 1976. 


Boeing Marine Systems is currently 
concentrating on the military and com¬ 
mercial hydrofoil markets. 

The U.S. Navy has been given con¬ 
gressional and Department of Defense 
approval for production of five patrol 
hydrofoil missileships (PHMs). Final 
contract negotiations are scheduled to 
be completed in time to allow produc¬ 
tion to begin in the spring of 1977 with 
delivery of the first ship in 1980. The 
Administration has stated, however, 
that the PHM program will be subject 
to further review. 

Pegasus, the prototype PHM, suc¬ 
cessfully completed an operational 
evaluation by the U.S. Navy in 
California last year. She will undergo 
Navy acceptance trials this spring prior 
to commissioning and deployment in 
the fleet. 

Boeing commercial hydrofoils — 


known as Jetfoils — are operating in 
Hawaii, Hong Kong and Venezuela. A 
second Jetfoil will be added this spring 
by Turismo Margarita to its service 
from Puerto La Cruz on the Venezuela 
mainland to Margarita Island in the 
Caribbean. 

Sado Kisen Kaisha of Niigata, 
Japan, has purchased a Jetfoil that will 



A Jetfoil, left, flying on its foils, banks into a turn 
during tests on Seattle's Elliott Bay. In commercial 
service in Hong Kong, another Jetfoil, right, con- 


operate between Niigata on the main 
Japanese island of Honshu and Sado 
Island in the Sea of Japan beginning 
this spring. P & 0 Jet Ferries of Lon¬ 
don, England will operate a Jetfoil 
under charter starting this summer, 
testing the market acceptance of the 
craft in service across the English 
Channel. 



trasts in speed and appearance with conventional 
craft. Jetfoils are also operating in Hawaii and 
Venezuela. 


17 

















FINANCIAL REVIEW 


Sales, Earnings and Dividends 

Consolidated sales for 1976 in¬ 
creased $200 million to a record 
$3,919 million. Export sales were 48% 
of total sales in 1976 compared with 
41% in 1975. Sales to the U.S. Gov¬ 
ernment were 34% in 1976 and 38% in 
1975. 

Including military derivatives, ten 
707s, sixty-one 727s, forty-one 737s 
and twenty-seven 747s were delivered 
in 1976 for a total of 139. This com¬ 
pares with 1975 deliveries of eight 
707s, ninety-one 727s, fifty-one 737s 
and twenty-one 747s for a total of 171. 
Although total commercial jet transport 
deliveries declined, increased spares 
deliveries, growth in support, service, 
and modification programs, and 
somewhat higher price levels resulted 
in total 1976 jet transport sales being 
higher than comparable 1975 levels. 

Current schedules anticipate the 
delivery of twelve 707s, seventy-eight 
727s, twenty-nine 737s, and twenty- 


two 747s for a total of 141 aircraft in 
1977. 

Military aircraft sales were slightly 
above prior year levels, with increased 
E-3A (AWACS) and B-1 Avionics sales 
partially offset by some decrease in 
Airborne Command Post, YC-14, 
helicopter and military modification 
program sales. Missile and space 
sales were below 1975 levels, prin¬ 
cipally because of reduced SRAM 
missile sales and somewhat lower 
Minuteman sales. These sales de¬ 
creases were partially offset by 
higher sales on the Air Launched 
Cruise Missile (ALCM) and Roland 
short-range air defense missile pro¬ 
grams. 

Based on current programs and 
schedules, 1977 sales should be 
somewhat above the levels achieved in 
1976. 

The company continued its practice 
of charging directly to earnings as in¬ 
curred, research, developmental, gen¬ 


eral and administrative expenses ex¬ 
cept to the extent such expenses are 
expected to be recoverable under 
contracts. 

Research and development ex¬ 
penses of $191 million and general 
and administrative expenses of $121 
million charged directly to earnings 
were respectively $2.5 million and $4.3 
million higher than in 1975. 

The improved earnings for 1976 
were primarily achieved through con¬ 
tinued favorable performance on 
major programs, higher than pre¬ 
viously anticipated orders for stan¬ 
dard-body jet transports, increased 
other income and lower interest and 
debt expense. Research, development 
and other expenditures relating to new 
aircraft, derivative models and product 
improvement of commercial jet trans¬ 
ports and other transportation equip¬ 
ment programs continued at a rela¬ 
tively high level. 

Earnings before Federal income 


SALES 


■ COMMERCIAL (INCLUDING LOCAL 
AND FOREIGN GOVERNMENT) 

BILLIONS H U.S. GOVERNMENT 
OF 

DOLLARS 



SALES 


EXPORT 


BILLIONS 

OF 

DOLLARS 



4.0 



1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 



SALES BY CLASS OF PRODUCT 

TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT 
AND RELATED SERVICES 
—COMMERCIAL 

—MILITARY 

MISSILES/SPACE 

MISCELLANEOUS 


BILLIONS 
DOLLARS HUH 


1 


18 






















taxes were $162.6 million, an increase 
of $49.8 million or 44% above the 
comparable 1975 figure of $112.7 
million. The 1976 provision for Federal 
taxes on income was $59.7 million, 
compared with $36.4 million in 1975. 
The $23.3 million increase resulted 
from the tax on increased earnings 
less $1.0 million increase in benefits 
from the company's domestic interna¬ 
tional sales corporations. 

Net earnings for 1976 were $102.9 
million, an increase of $26.6 million or 
35% over the $76.3 million reported in 
1975. The earnings amounted to 
$4.85 per share or 2.63% of sales 
compared with $3.60 per share or 
2.05% of sales in 1975. 

Sales and earnings contribution by 
the company's major business cat¬ 
egories for the five-year period 1972 
through 1976 are summarized at the 
bottom of this page. 

Quarterly dividends paid per share 
for 1976 and 1975 were as follows: 


Quarter 1976 1975 


1st . $ .25 $ .20 

2nd .25 .20 

3rd.25 .20 

4th . ,50 40 

$1.25 $1.00 


Regular quarterly dividends were 
increased from 15 cents to 20 cents 
per share in the first quarter of 1975 
and were further increased to 25 cents 
per share in the first quarter of 1976. In 
addition, special dividends of 20 cents 
per share in 1975 and 25 cents per 
share in 1976 were paid in December. 
Effective with the first quarter of 1977, 
the regular quarterly dividend rate was 
further increased to 35 cents per 
share. 

Ranges of 1976 and 1975 market 
prices for the company’s common 
stock, as traded on the New York 
Stock Exchange, were as follows: 

_ 1976 _ 1975 

Quarter High Low High Low 

1st . 29% 24% 22% 15% 

2nd .... 40% 26% 31 % 20 

3rd . 45% 37 30% 23 3 /i 

4th . 46% 39% 29% 22% 

Financial Position 

Stockholders' equity at December 
31, 1976 amounted to $1,085 million, 
up $75 million from year-end 1975. 
Working capital increased $57 million 
to $635 million. 

The non-current portion of long¬ 
term aircraft financing, which includes 


NET EARNINGS AND CASH DIVIDENDS 



SALES AND EARNINGS CONTRIBUTION (in millions) 


Sales 

Transportation equipment and related services 

1976 

1975 

1974 

1973 

1972 

(primarily aircraft). 

$3,321 

$3,005 

$3,020 

$2,598 

$1,752 

Missiles/space and miscellaneous. 

598 

714 

711 

737 

618 

Total. 

Approximate Earnings Contribution After Program and 
Contract Research and Development Expenses 

Transportation equipment and related services 

$3,919 

$3,719 

$3,731 

$3,335 

$2,370 

(primarily aircraft). 

$249.9 

$201.1 

$167.0 

$113.5 

$119.1 

Missiles/space and miscellaneous. 

64.7 

59.7 

68.2 

84.9 

48.7 


314.6 

260.8 

235.2 

198.4 

167.8 

Other expenses—net. 

(152.0) 

(148.1) 

(132.8) 

(140.6) 

(143.0) 

Earnings before taxes. 

$162.6 

$112.7 

$102.4 

$ 57.8 

$ 24.8 


Unallocated "other expenses—net” include general and administrative expenses and company-sponsored 
independent research and development costs not recoverable under contracts, interest on debt, interest 
income and miscellaneous income. 


19 



























































notes receivable, investment in sales 
type leases and the depreciated book 
values of aircraft on operating leases, 
increased $24 million to a total of $261 
million. The increase reflects a $73 
million increase in the company’s in¬ 
vestment in sales-type leases offset by 
a $48 million reduction in notes re¬ 
ceivable and a $1 million decrease in 
the net book value of aircraft on oper¬ 
ating leases. 

The company’s net investment in 
plant and equipment remained at $373 
million as facilities additions net of re¬ 
tirements approximately equalled 
depreciation. 

Long-term debt was $133 million at 
the end of 1976, a reduction of $16 
million during the year, reflecting 
required annual payments on long¬ 
term debentures and notes. 

The company’s commercial bank 
credit arrangements are covered by 
two major agreements. The first 
agreement provides for open lines of 
credit aggregating $100 million which 
are available to the company through 
March 31, 1977. The second agree¬ 
ment provides a credit line of $50 mil¬ 


lion to Boeing Financial Corpora¬ 
tion, a wholly-owned subsidiary estab¬ 
lished to assist in financing commer¬ 
cial aircraft. The loans are governed by 
a borrowing base which is dependent 
on assets owned by Boeing Financial 
Corporation. There were no borrow¬ 
ings under either of these agreements 
at year end. 

Backlog 

Total firm backlog of unfilled orders 
at the end of 1976 was $3,960 million, 
an increase of $231 million or 6.2% 
from the $3,729 million at the end of 
1975. Of the total 1976 backlog, 
$2,658 million or 67% was commercial 
(including local and foreign govern¬ 
ment) compared with $2,569 million or 
69% at the end of 1975. United States 
Government backlog was $1,302 mil¬ 
lion or 33% at December 31, 1976 
compared with $1,160 million or 31% 
at the end of 1975. 

Announced orders for which defini¬ 
tive contracts have not been executed 
and purchase options are not included 
in commercial backlog. Government 
order backlog is limited to amounts 


PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 

MILLIONS 

OF 

DOLLARS 

100 



1972 1973 1974 1975 1976 


obligated to contracts by the procuring 
agencies. If recognition were given to 
unfunded amounts under contract with 
the United States Government at 
December 31, unfilled orders would be 
increased by about $400 million at the 
end of 1976 and $500 million at the 
end of 1975. 


ACCOUNTANTS’ REPORT 


TOUCHE ROSS & CO. 

Board of Directors 
The Boeing Company 
Seattle, Washington 

We have examined the consolidated balance sheets of The 
Boeing Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1976 and 
1975, and the related statements of net earnings and retained 
earnings and changes in financial position for the years then 
ended. Our examinations were made in accordance with generally 
accepted auditing standards, and accordingly included such tests 
of the accounting records and such other auditing procedures as 
we considered necessary in the circumstances. 

In our opinion, the aforementioned consolidated financial state¬ 
ments present fairly the financial position of The Boeing Com¬ 


pany and subsidiaries at December 31, 1976 and 1975, and the 
results of their operations and the changes in their financial posi¬ 
tion for the years then ended, in conformity with generally ac¬ 
cepted accounting principles applied on a consistent basis. 

Also, in our opinion, the action of the Board of Directors on 
February 7, 1977, in setting aside the sum of $3,500,000 for the 
year 1976 under the Incentive Compensation Plan for officers and 
employees, is in conformity with the provisions contained in the 
first paragraph of Section 2 of such plan. 


THE FINANCIAL CENTER 
SEATTLE. WASHINGTON 98161 





February 23, 1977 Certified Public Accountants 


20 














AA/f J&£FJFfAM7 CO/lfWA/y' AA/O SL/0&/0M&/FS 


FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF 

NET EARNINGS AND RETAINED EARNINGS 


Year ended December 31, 



See notes to consolidated financial statements. 


21 





































r/-/f £F£F£fA/£r CO/WPA/Vy /4A/£? Si/BS/DM/7/FS 


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 


ASSETS 


December 31, 



1976 

1975* 

Current Assets: 



Cash and certificates of deposit. 

$ 307,603,000 

$ 45,968,000 

Short-term investments. 

242,417,000 

62,625,000 

Accounts receivable. 

225,807,000 

215,489,000 

Current portion of long-term aircraft financing. j 

58,721,000 

63,283,000 

Inventories. 

435,132,000 

777,740,000 

Prepaid expenses. 

10,308,000 

10,028,000 

Total Current Assets. 

1,279,988,000 

1,175,133,000 

Long-Term Aircraft Financing: 



Notes receivable, less current portion. 

133,786,000 

181,591,000 

Investment in sales-type leases, 



less current portion. 

85,636,000 

12,187,000 

Aircraft on operating leases, at cost, 



less accumulated depreciation: 



1976 — $98,094,000; 1975 — $98,046,000 . 

41,892,000 

43,076,000 


261,314,000 

236,854,000 

Property, Plant and Equipment, at cost: 



Land. 

27,641,000 

27,152,000 

Buildings. 

540,657,000 

524,865,000 

Machinery and equipment. 

641,737,000 

620,319,000 

Construction in progress. 

17,394,000 

16,602,000 

Less accumulated depreciation and amortization .... 

(854,449,000) 

(816,157,000) 


372,980,000 

372,781,000 

Other Assets and Deferred Charges. 

4,316,000 

4,128,000 


$1,918,598,000 

$1,788,896,000 


* Reclassified to conform with 1976 presentation. 
See notes to consolidated financial statements. 


22 




































LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY 


December 31, 




1976 

1975 

Current Liabilities: 




Notes payable to banks. 


$ 5,430,000 

$ 5,690,000 

Accounts payable. 


412,192,000 

381,682,000 

Salaries and wages, taxes and other 




accrued expenses . 


168,179,000 

157,459,000 

Federal taxes on income. 


43,105,000 

36,400,000 

Current portion of long-term debt. 


15,799,000 

16,244,000 

Total Current Liabilities. 


644,705,000 

597,475,000 

Deferred Taxes On Income. 


37,000,000 

22,000,000 

Deferred Investment Credit. 


34,400,000 

26,300,000 

Long-Term Debt, less current portion. 


117,667,000 

133,028,000 

Contingent Liabilities 




Stockholders’ Equity: 




Capital stock— 




Common, par value $5 a share: 




Authorized, 40,000,000 shares 




Issued at stated value—21,688,888 shares .... 


444,357,000 

446,672,000 

Retained earnings. 


648,314,000 

571,944,000 



1,092,671,000 

1,018,616,000 

Less treasury stock, at cost— 




1976—452,099 shares; 1975—491,172 shares . . . 


(7,845,000) 

(8,523,000) 



1,084,826,000 

1,010,093,000 



$1,918,598,000 

$1,788,896,000 




































r/-/£ £MF£/A/£r eO/lSMA/y' 4 A/& SiSBS/DM£?/£ r S' 


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF 
CHANGES IN FINANCIAL POSITION 


Sources of funds: 

From operations— 

Net earnings. 

Depreciation: 

Plant and equipment. 

Leased aircraft. 

Amortization of investment credit. 

Deferred Federal taxes on income. 

Total from operations. 

Increase in deferred investment credit. 

Uses of funds: 

Additions to plant and equipment, net. 

Increase (decrease) in long-term aircraft financing . . 

Cash dividends. 

Decreases in long-term debt. 

Other . 

Net Increase In Working Capital. 

Changes in components of working capital: 

Cash and certificates of deposit. 

Short-term investments. 

Accounts receivable. 

Current portion of long-term aircraft financing . . . . 

Inventories. 

Prepaid expenses. 

Notes payable to banks. 

Accounts payable. 

Salaries and wages, taxes and other accrued expenses . 

Federal taxes on income. 

Current portion of long-term debt. 

Net Increase In Working Capital. 


Year ended December 31, 


1976 

1975 * 

$102,895,000 

$ 76,347,000 

66,997,000 

67,197,000 

12,304,000 

11,037,000 

(9,600,000) 

(9,700,000) 

15,000,000 

15,000,000 

187,596,000 

159,881,000 

17,700,000 

13,000,000 

205,296,000 

172,881,000 

67,196,000 

70,843,000 

36,764,000 

(8,069,000) 

26,525,000 

21,191,000 

15,361,000 

16,011,000 

1,825,000 

(2,667,000) 

147,671,000 

97,309,000 

$ 57,625,000 

$ 75,572,000 

$261,635,000 

$ 6,470,000 

179,792,000 

62,625,000 

10,318,000 

(22,322,000) 

(4,562,000) 

806,000 

(342,608,000) 

14,631,000 

280,000 

(1,471,000) 

260,000 

(1,690,000) 

(30,510,000) 

31,603,000 

(10,720,000) 

6,308,000 

(6,705,000) 

(20,571,000) 

445,000 

(817,000) 

$ 57,625,000 

$ 75,572,000 




•Reclassified to conform with 1976 presentation. 
See notes to consolidated financial statements. 


24 












































r/-/£ 0£FJFfJV£r C,OAJWA/y /I/VO SOOS/OMO/OO 


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
Years Ended December 31,1976 and 1975 


Note 1 • SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING 
POLICIES: 

principles of consolidation. The consolidated financial 
statements include the accounts of all significant sub¬ 
sidiaries. Intercompany profits, transactions and balances 
have been eliminated in consolidation. 

inventories. Inventoried costs on long-term commercial 
programs and U.S. Government contracts include direct 
engineering, production, and tooling costs and applicable 
overhead. In addition, for U.S. Government fixed-price in¬ 
centive contracts, inventoried costs include research, 
development, general and administrative expenses es¬ 
timated to be recoverable. Inventoried costs are reduced by 
the estimated average cost of deliveries. 

For mature commercial programs, the average cost of 
deliveries is based on the estimated total cost of units 
committed to production. For commercial programs in the 
early production stages, the average cost of deliveries is 
based on the estimated total cost of units representing a 
conservative market projection. For U.S. Government con¬ 
tracts the average cost of deliveries is based on the es¬ 
timated total cost of units under contract. 

To the extent the total costs as determined above are 
expected to exceed the total estimated sales price, charges 
are made to current earnings to reduce inventoried costs to 
estimated realizable value. 

In accordance with industry practice, inventoried costs in¬ 
clude amounts relating to programs and contracts with long 
production cycles, a portion of which is not expected to be 
realized within one year. 

Commercial spare parts and general stock materials are 
stated at average cost not in excess of realizable value. 

revenue recognition. Sales under commercial programs 
and U.S. Government fixed-price and fixed-price incentive 
contracts are recorded as deliveries are made. Sales under 
cost-reimbursement type contracts are recorded as costs 
are incurred and fees are earned. Certain U.S. Government 
contracts contain profit incentives based upon performance 
as compared to predetermined targets. Incentives based on 
cost are recorded currently. Other incentives are included 
in revenues when awards or penalties are established, or 
when amounts can reasonably be determined. The sales 
portion of revenue on sales-type leases is recorded as 
deliveries are made. The interest portion is deducted from 
the investment and is recognized over the life of the lease. 
Other leases are accounted for on the operating method. 

depreciation and amortization. Property, plant and 
equipment and aircraft on operating leases are recorded at 


cost and depreciated or amortized over useful lives based 
principally on accelerated methods. 

retirement plans. The Company has several retirement 
plans covering substantially all employees. The Company's 
policy is to accrue and fund current pension costs. Un¬ 
funded past service costs are amortized principally over 25 
years. 

RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE 

expenses. Research, development, general and adminis¬ 
trative expenses are charged directly to earnings as in¬ 
curred except to the extent estimated to be recoverable 
under contracts. 

federal taxes on income. The provision for Federal in¬ 
come taxes is based on all elements of income and expense 
included in the statement of net earnings, regardless of the 
period when such items are reported for tax purposes, 
except that no provision is made for that portion of the 
earnings of the Company's Domestic International Sales 
Corporations for which management believes tax payments 
will be indefinitely deferred. The effects of timing differences 
between the reporting of revenues and expenses for finan¬ 
cial statements and Federal income tax purposes are 
reflected as changes in deferred taxes on income. Invest¬ 
ment tax credits are deferred and recorded as reductions in 
the provision for income taxes over the lives of the applica¬ 
ble assets. 

Note 2 • ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE: 

Accounts receivable at December 31 consist of — 

1976 1_975 

(in thousands) 

Amounts receivable under 

U.S. Government contracts $104,905 $95,417 

Accounts receivable from 

commercial customers . . . 120,902 120,072 

$225,807 $215,489 


No significant amounts are included in accounts receivable 
which represent retainages under contracts, amounts sub¬ 
ject to future negotiations, accrued costs and profits not 
billable, or amounts which will not be collected within one 
year. 

Principal payments receivable under long-term notes for the 
next five years are — 

(in thousands) 


1977 $55,190 

1978 48,409 

1979 41,612 

1980 17,103 

1981 11,984 


The notes bear interest at rates of 5% to 12%. 


25 




















WP tFJFJJVir COAAPAA/A A A/P PUPS/O/AP/PS 


Note 3 • INVENTORIES: 


Inventories at December 31 include the following — 


1976 1975 


(in thousands) 

Inventoried costs relating 
to long-term commercial 
programs and U.S. Gov¬ 
ernment contracts, less 
estimated average cost 
of deliveries .$1,062,439 

Commercial spare parts 
and general stock 

materials . 140 ,228 

1,202,667 

Less advances and 
progress payments . . . (767,535 ) 

$ 435,132 


$1,332,080 

146,342 

1,478,422 

(700,682 ) 
$ 777,740 


Inventoried costs relating to long-term U.S. Government 
contracts include general and administrative expenses of 
approximately $24,085,000 in 1976 and $12,500,000 in 
1975. 


Inventoried costs relating to long-term commercial pro¬ 
grams and U.S. Government contracts include 
$163,000,000 in 1976 and $179,000,000 in 1975 of un¬ 
amortized tooling costs and $146,000,000 in 1976 and 
$196,000,000 in 1975 representing the excess of ag¬ 
gregate production costs incurred on in-process and 
delivered units over the aggregate estimated average cost 
of such units (determined as described in Note 1). It is 
estimated that $230,000,000 of such amounts, which relate 
principally to the 747 program, will be recovered from firm 
orders received after February 23,1977. With respect to the 
747 program, such costs are being averaged over what 
management believes to be a conservative market projec¬ 
tion of 400 aircraft. As of February 23, 1977, the Company 
had received 320 firm orders for 747 aircraft of which 295 
had been delivered at December 31, 1976. 


Note 4 • FEDERAL INCOME TAXES: 

The provision for Federal taxes on income consists of — 

1976 1975 

(in thousands) 
$54,300 $31,100 

15,000 15,000 

(9,600 ) (9,700 ) 

$59,700 $36,40 0 

The provision for Federal taxes on income was reduced by 
$9,500,000 ($.45 per share) in 1976 and $8,500,000 ($.40 
per share) in 1975 applicable to earnings of the Company’s 
Domestic International Sales Corporation (DISC) subsidiar¬ 
ies, since management intends to indefinitely postpone 


Taxes currently payable . 
Deferred tax expense . . . 
Amortization of investment 
tax credit . 


payment of such taxes through the reinvestment of undis¬ 
tributed earnings in export-related assets. Cumulative 
undistributed DISC earnings for which Federal income 
taxes have not been provided amount to approximately 
$88,500,000. 

Deferred tax expense results from — 

1976 1975 

(in thousands) 


Deferred DISC earnings not 


indefinitely postponed . . . . 

$ 9,800 

$19,200 

Long-term aircraft financing . . 
Commercial and U.S. Govern¬ 

. 8,900 

(1,400) 

ment program costs . 

(3,600) 

(3,000) 

Other . 

(100) 

200 


$15,000 

$15,000 


The provision for Federal taxes on income is less than that 
which results from application of the statutory corporate tax 
rate because such provision has been reduced by 
$9,500,000 in 1976 and $8,500,000 in 1975 related to 
undistributed DISC earnings and by $9,600,000 in 1976 
and $9,700,000 in 1975 of investment tax credit amor¬ 
tization. 

Income taxes have been settled with the Internal Revenue 
Service for all years through 1972. In connection with the 
audit of the Company’s Federal income tax returns for the 
years 1973 through 1975, the Internal Revenue Service is 
reviewing the Company’s practices relative to commissions 
and consulting fees paid in connection with sales to foreign 
customers. The Company has not been advised of any 
proposed adjustments or disallowance relating to such 
payments. The Company cannot predict the outcome of this 
audit, but it is the Company’s position that the payments are 
properly deductible and that adequate provision for income 
taxes has been made for the years 1973 through 1976. 

Note 5 • NOTES PAYABLE AND LONG-TERM DEBT: 

Short-term notes of $5,430,000 at December 31, 1976, 
bearing interest at rates ranging to '/*% above the Canadian 
commercial bank prime rates are payable by Canadian 
subsidiaries under lines of credit aggregating $6,600,000. 
No borrowings were outstanding at December 31, 1976 
under agreements with a group of U.S. banks which provide 
open lines of credit of $100,000,000 bearing interest at the 
commercial bank prime rate. Cash balances are maintained 
under informal compensating balance arrangements in 
connection with the lines of credit. No restrictions are 
imposed on the use of these funds. 

Boeing Financial Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary, 
is a party to a Term Loan and Credit Agreement with a 
group of banks providing $50,000,000 of financing under a 
revolving credit agreement governed by a borrowing base. 
This agreement, under which no borrowings are outstand¬ 
ing, provides for interest at 120% of the commercial bank 
prime rate. 


26 











































r//£ £?£J^/A/G compa/vy /i A/a soaa/o/Aa/as 


Long-term debt consists 
of the following — 


December 31, 

1976 1975 


6%% notes payable . 

5% notes payable . 

5% Sinking Fund Debentures 

Other notes . 

Less current maturities .... 


(in thousands) 


$110,500 $121,250 

19,750 22,500 

2,192 4,837 

1,024 685 

(15,799 ) (16,244 ) 


$117,667 $133,028 


The 6%% notes, maturing in 1986, are payable to a group 
of institutional lenders. Required annual payments are 
$10,750,000. 

The 5% notes, maturing in 1983, are payable to an insur¬ 
ance company in annual installments of $2,750,000. 

The final payment of $2,192,000 on the 5% Sinking Fund 
Debentures is due August 1, 1977. 

The Company has complied with the restrictive covenants 
contained in the various debt agreements. 

Aggregate maturities and sinking fund requirements on 
long-term debt for each of the next five years are as fol¬ 
lows — 

(in thousands) 


1977 $15,799 

1978 14,264 

1979 13,509 

1980 13,580 

1981 13,508 


Treasury shares of 39,073 ($678,000) in 1976 and 26,228 
($456,000) in 1975 were reissued for the exercise of stock 
options, resulting in increases in the stated value of capital 
stock of $422,000 and $66,000. There were no other 
changes in common stock outstanding during the two years 
ended December 31,1976. 

At December 31, 1976, options for 498,681 shares of the 
Company's stock at prices ranging from $13.25 to $27.50 
were outstanding, of which 81,394 shares were exercisa¬ 
ble. During 1976, options for 170,350 shares were granted 
and options for 3,774 shares were cancelled. Additional 
options for 82,869 shares are available for grant under the 
present stock option plan. 

Note 9 • INTERIM FINANCIAL INFORMATION (unaudited): 

Quarterly results of operations for 1976 and 1975 are 
summarized on page 29. 

Note 10 • REPLACEMENT COST INFORMATION 
(unaudited): 

In compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission 
regulations, the Company has included certain estimated 
replacement cost data in the Form 10-K annual report filed 
with the SEC. 

Disclosures with respect to inventories and cost of sales are 
not applicable because most of the Company's inventories 
relate to products built to specifications under binding 
contracts, and inflation does not result in inventory profits 
under these circumstances. 


Note 6 • RETIREMENT PLANS: 

Costs and expenses for 1976 and 1975 include retirement 
plan costs of $84,828,000 and $67,938,000. At December 
31, 1976, actuarially determined vested benefits exceeded 
retirement plan assets by approximately $107,000,000. 

Note 7 • RESEARCH, DEVELOPMENT, GENERAL AND 
ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES: 

Expenses charged directly to earnings as incurred include — 

197 6 1_975 

(in thousands) 

Research and development . $190,598 $188,059 

General and administrative .. 121,132 116,863 

Note 8 • CAPITAL STOCK: 

The Company has authorized 10,000,000 shares of $1 par 
preferred stock, none of which has been issued. 

During 1975 and 1976, the Company received unfavorable 
court decisions related to adequacy of the notice of the 
1966 call of Convertible Subordinated Debentures. The 
stated value of capital stock has been reduced by $552,000 
in 1975 and an additional $2,737,000 in 1976, which 
represent management's estimate of the established liability 
to debenture holders. Various issues remain in contention, 
and the final judgment may require an adjustment of the 
estimated liability. 


Although the cumulative impact of inflation over a number 
of years results in indicated higher costs for replacement of 
existing plant and equipment, such costs would be partially 
offset by increased productivity and the reduction of other 
costs attendant to overall efficiencies inherent in replacing 
existing productive capacity. Disclosures with respect to 
replacement cost of productive capacity represent, in the 
Company's view, a reasonable approximation of the infor¬ 
mation required by the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. 

Note 11 • CONTINGENT LIABILITIES: 

Substantially all of the Company's contracts with the U.S. 
Government are subject to renegotiation under the Re¬ 
negotiation Act of 1951. Renegotiation Board proceedings 
for all years through 1971 have been concluded. The 
Company does not know and cannot predict what the 
Board’s actions will be for 1972 and subsequent years. In 
view of this uncertainty, and the belief of the Company that 
no excessive profits were realized, no provision for re¬ 
negotiation refund has been made for these years. 

The Company is engaged in various legal proceedings 
which in some instances involve claims for substantial 
amounts. Most of these claims are covered by insurance, 
and the Company does not anticipate that the amounts, if 
any, which may be required to be paid by the Company will 
be material. 


27 





























r/-/f 0£I&A/£r COMPAA/y AA//7 SU& S’/DM ft/FX 


FIVE-YEAR COMPARATIVE FINANCIAL DATA 

Dollars in millions except per share amounts 


SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS Year ended December 31 , 




1976 

1975 

1974 

1973 

1972 

Sales. 

Other income. 


$3,918.5 

71.4 

$3,718.9 

50.8 

$3,730.7 

47.3 

$3,335.2 

43.8 

$2,369.6 

39.4 



3,989.9 

3,769.7 

3,778.0 

3,379.0 

2,409.0 

Costs and expenses. 

Interest and debt expense. 


3,815.0 

12.3 

3,642.4 

14.6 

3,660.3 

15.3 

3,282.0 

39.2 

2,327.8 

56.4 



3,827.3 

3,657.0 

3,675.6 

3,321.2 

2,384.2 

Earnings before taxes. 

Federal taxes on income. 


162.6 

59.7 

112.7 

36.4 

102.4 

30.0 

57.8 

6.6 

24.8 

(5.6) 

Net Earnings 


$ 102.9 

$ 76.3 

$ 72.4 

$ 51.2 

$ 30.4 

Average number of common 
shares outstanding. 


21,217,617 

21,190,125 

21,187,605 

21,513,521 

21,685,076 

Per share — 

Net earnings. 

Cash dividends. 


$4.85 

$1.25 

$3.60 

$1.00 

$3.42 
$ .75 

$2.38 
$ .40 

$1.40 
$ .40 


MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF THE SUMMARY OF OPERATIONS 


Management’s discussion and an¬ 
alysis of 1976 results compared with 
1975 are set forth in the Financial 
Review section of this report under 
Sales, Earnings and Dividends, pages 
18 and 19. Management’s comments 
relative to 1975 results compared with 
1974 are summarized as follows: 

Sales in 1975 were slightly below 
the 1974 level. Although commercial 
jet transport deliveries were somewhat 
lower, increased spares deliveries, 
growth in support and modification 
programs, and the impact of inflation 
on prices resulted in total jet transport 
sales being comparable to those in 
1974. Military aircraft sales were 


slightly below prior year levels with 
decreases in E-3A (AWACS), Airborne 
Navigator Trainer and helicopter sales 
being partially offset by increased Air¬ 
borne Command Post, YC-14 and B-1 
Avionics sales. Missile and space sales 
were also lower as conclusion of the 
current SRAM missile production pro¬ 
gram occasioned a decline in sales, 
more than offsetting increased Min- 
uteman and Air Launched Cruise 
Missile program sales. 

Research and development ex¬ 
penses, and general and administra¬ 
tive expenses charged directly to 
earnings in 1975 were respectively 
$9.6 million and $6.4 million higher 


than in 1974. The somewhat improved 
earnings were primarily achieved 
through continued favorable perfor¬ 
mance on major programs coupled 
with an increase in other income and a 
modest reduction in interest and debt 
expense. 

The 1975 provision for Federal 
taxes on income increased $6.4 million 
over 1974 due to the tax on increased 
earnings plus the net effect of a $1.5 
million decrease in benefits from the 
company’s domestic international 
sales corporations and a $0.6 million 
increase in amortization of previously 
deferred investment tax credits. 


28 



























































FINANCIAL POSITION AT YEAR END 

1976 

1975* 

1974* 

1973* 

1972* 

Working capital. 

$ 635.3 

$ 577.7 

$ 502.1 

$ 463.8 

$ 738.6 

Long-term aircraft financing. 

261.3 

236.9 

256.0 

261.1 

277.2 

Facilities — at cost. 

1,227.4 

1,188.9 

1,137.5 

1,067.5 

1,059.2 

Facilities — net. 

373.0 

372.8 

369.1 

349.5 

382.4 

Other assets and deferred charges . . . . 

4.3 

4.1 

6.8 

5.6 

4.4 

Long-term debt. 

117.7 

133.0 

149.0 

164.8 

502.6 

Deferred taxes. 

37.0 

22.0 

7.0 

(10.0) 

2.0 

Deferred investment credit. 

34.4 

26.3 

23.0 

25.1 

33.1 

Stockholders’ equity. 

1,084.8 

1,010.1 

955.0 

900.1 

864.8 

— per share. 

$ 51.08 

$ 47.65 

$ 45.11 

$ 42.27 

$ 39.87 

Common shares outstanding. 

21,236,789 

21,197,716 

21,171,488 

21,296,488 

21,688,888 

SOURCES AND (USES) OF FUNDS 






Net earnings. 

$ 102.9 

$ 76.3 

$ 72.4 

$ 51.2 

$ 30.4 

Depreciation of plant. 

67.0 

67.2 

64.5 

66.0 

75.9 

Deferred items. 

23.1 

18.3 

14.9 

(20.0) 

(26.3) 

Long-term debt. 

(15.4) 

(16.0) 

(15.8) 

(337.8) 

(24.9) 

Cash dividends. 

(26.5) 

(21.2) 

(15.9) 

(8.6) 

(8.7) 

Plant additions, net. 

(67.2) 

(70.8) 

(84.1) 

(33.1) 

(9.4) 

Aircraft financing. 

(24.5) 

19.1 

5.1 

16.1 

6.7 

Other . 

(1.8) 

2.7 

(2.8) 

(8.5) 


Increase (decrease) in working capital. . . 

$ 57.6 

$ 75.6 

$ 38.3 

$ (274.7) 

$ 43.7 

OTHER DATA 






Firm backlog. 

$3,959.9 

$3,728.8 

$3,824.4 

$3,152.2 

$2,830.9 

Salaries and wages. 

$1,207.1 

$1,222.4 

$1,099.0 

$ 955.5 

$ 783.5 

Average number of employees. 

Floor area (million square feet) 

65,400 

72,600 

74,400 

68,200 

58,600 

Boeing owned. 

25.1 

25.0 

25.2 

23.7 

24.2 

Leased . 

2.5 

2.5 

2.3 

1.5 

1.6 

Government owned. 

‘Reclassified to conform with 1976 presentation. 

5.7 

5.7 

5.8 

5.9 

7.4 


QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA 


Dollars in millions except per share amounts 


Costs and 


Net earnings 


Quarter 

Sales 

expenses 

Net earnings 

per 

1976 

share 

1975 

1976 

1975 

1976 

1975 

1976 

1975 

1 st . . . 

. . $ 742.0 

$ 839.9 

$ 728.0 

$ 819.3 

$ 15.6 

$ 18.5 

$ .74 

$ .87 

2nd . . . 

. . 1,165.7 

1,039.8 

1,135.8 

1,017.7 

27.1 

19.9 

1.27 

.94 

3rd . . . 

. . 798.7 

794.6 

780.6 

779.3 

22.7 

17.3 

1.07 

.82 

4th .. . 

. . 1,212.1 

1,044.6 

1,170.6 

1,026.1 

37.5 

20.6 

1.77 

.97 


$3,918.5 

$3,718.9 

$3,815.0 

$3,642.4 

$102.9 

$ 76.3 

$4.85 

$3.60 









29 











































































Seattle, Washington 


BOARD OF DIRECTORS 



T. A. WILSON 

Chairman of the Board 
Chief Executive Officer 


M. T. STAMPER 

President 



H. W. HAYNES J. E. PRINCE 

Executive Vice President Senior Vice President 

Chief Financial Officer 



WILLIAM M. BATTEN* 

Chairman of the Board 
& Chief Executive Officer 
The New York Stock Exchange 



WILLIAM G. REED 

Managing Partner 
Simpson Reed & Co. 
(Management of Capital) 


HAROLD J. HAYNES* 

Chairman of the Board 
Standard Oil Company of Calif. 
(Petroleum Products) 



DAVID E. SKINNER* 

President 

Skinner Corporation 
(Diversified Investments) 


STANLEY HILLER, JR * 

Chairman of the Board 
Baker International Corp. 
(Mining and Oil Equipment) 



EDWARD C. WELLS 

Boeing Company Consultant 


CHARLES M. PIGOTT 

President 
PACCAR Inc 
(Transportation Equipment) 


GEORGE H. WEYERHAEUSER 

President 

Weyerhaeuser Company 
(Forest Products) 



♦Audit Committee 

DIRECTORS EMERITI: 

WILLIAM M. ALLEN (Chairman Emeritus) • CRAWFORD H. GREENEWALT • LOWELL P. MICKELWAIT 


30 
















ORGANIZATION AND MANAGEMENT 


CORPORATE OFFICES 

T. A. WILSON 
M. T. STAMPER 
H. W. HAYNES 
J. E. PRINCE 
R. R. ALBRECHT 

Vice President 
Counsel and Secretary 

O. C. BOILEAU 

Vice President; President 
Boeing Aerospace Company 

E. H. BOULLIOUN 

Vice President; President 
Boeing Commercial Airplane Co. 

W. L. HAMILTON 

Vice President 
International Business 

V. F. KNUTZEN 

Vice President, Controller 

R. B. LIGHT 

Vice President 
Congressional Affairs 
Washington, D.C. Office 

S. M. LITTLE 

Vice President 

Industrial and Public Relations 

W. M. MAULDEN 

Senior Vice President 
Eastern Corporate Headquarters 

H. W. NEFFNER 

Vice President 

Contract Negotiations and Pricing 

G. D. NIBLE 

Vice President; Special 
Assistant to the President 

J. B. L. PIERCE 

Treasurer 

G. S. SCHAIRER 

Vice President 
Research 

F. A. SHRONTZ 

Vice President 

Contract Administration and Planning 

J. E. STEINER 

Vice President 

Corporate Product Development 

H. N. STUVERUDE 

Vice President; President 
Boeing Vertol Company 

R. W. TAYLOR 

Vice President 
Washington, D.C. Office 

R. W. THARRINGTON 

Vice President; President 
Boeing Computer Services, Inc. 

R. W. WELCH 

Vice President; 

Executive Vice President 
Boeing Commercial Airplane Co. 


BOEING COMMERCIAL AIRPLANE 
COMPANY 

Renton, Washington 

E. H. BOULLIOUN 

President 

R. W. WELCH 

Executive Vice President 

W. W. BUCKLEY 

Vice President, General Manager 
707nil nil Division 

K. F. HOLTBY 

Vice President, General Manager 
747 Division 

J. F. SUTTER 

Vice President 
Commercial Product 
Development 

D. D. THORNTON 

Vice President 

Finance, Contracts, 

and International Operations 

D. D. WHITFORD 

Vice President, General Manager 
Fabrication Division 

C. F. WILDE 

Vice President 
Sales and Marketing 

H. W. WITHINGTON 

Vice President 
Engineering 

B. S. WYGLE 

Vice President 
Customer Support 


BOEING AEROSPACE COMPANY 

Kent, Washington 

O. C. BOILEAU 

President 

J. H. GOLDIE 

Executive Vice President 

D. A. COLE 

Vice President 

General Manager 

Logistics and Support Services 

A. M. S. GOO 

Vice President 

General Manager 

Aircraft Armament Division 

D. E. GRAVES 

Vice President, Manager 
Military Applications 

W. T. HAMILTON 

Vice President 
Engineering 

H. E. HURST 

Vice President, Operations 

Boeing Military Airplane Development 

J. C. MAXWELL 

Vice President, General Manager 
Boeing Military Airplane Development 


M. K. MILLER 

Vice President, General Manager 
Information Systems Division 

B. T. PLYMALE 

Vice President, Manager 
Requirements and Marketing 

G. S. SEBESTYEN 

Vice President, General Manager 

Navy Systems and Advanced Projects Division 


BOEING VERTOL COMPANY 

Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 

H. N. STUVERUDE 

President 

O. H. SMITH 

Executive Vice President 

C. W. ELLIS 

Vice President 

Assistant General Manager 

BOEING WICHITA COMPANY 

Wichita, Kansas 

L. D. ALFORD 

President 

BOEING ENGINEERING and CONSTRUCTION 

Kent, Washington 
H. K. HEBELER 

Vice President, General Manager 

BOEING COMPUTER SERVICES, INC. 

Dover, New Jersey and Kent, Washington 

R. W. THARRINGTON 

President 

B. M. WHEAT 

Senior Vice President 

BOEING MARINE SYSTEMS 

Renton, Washington 
R. E. BATEMAN 

Vice President, General Manager 

SEATTLE SERVICES DIVISION 

Seattle, Washington 

B. W. LAMB 

General Manager 


OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES: 

BOECON CORPORATION 
BOEING AIRPORT EQUIPMENT, INC. 

BOEING CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT CO. 
BOEING ENVIRONMENTAL PRODUCTS, INC. 
BOEING OF CANADA, LTD. 

BOEING SERVICES INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
BOEING TECHNOLOGY INTERNATIONAL, INC. 


31 






















GENERAL COUNSEL 

Perkins, Coie, Stone, Olsen & Williams 

GENERAL AUDITORS 
Touche Ross & Co. 


TRANSFER AGENT AND REGISTRAR 
The First National Bank of Boston 

Address for mail transfers, shareholder 
inquiries or any other matters: 

First National Bank of Boston 
Shareholder Services Division 
Post Office Box 644 
Boston. Massachusetts 02102 
Tel: 617-434-6615 

Other offices where hand delivery of 
certificates for transfer may be made 
First National Bank of Boston 
100 Federal Street. Floor 1-B 
Boston, Massachusetts 

FNB Financial Co 
1 Wilshire Boulevard. 8th Floor 
Los Angeles. California 
Tel: 213-627-4361 

FNB Clearance Corporation 
61 Broadway, 7th Floor 
New York 

Tel: 212-422-1350 or 

212-695-2370, Ext 6615 


r/vf £F£FJF/A/£? 'comrwy 

General Offices: 

7755 East Marginal Way South 
Seattle. Washington 98124 








m 



■-/ * 


























