United States Court of Appeals 

for the 

District of Columbia Circuit 



TRANSCRIPT OF 
RECORD 






FILED AUGUST 23, 1934 


PRINTED SEPTEMBER 11, 1934 


LIBRARY 










United States Court of Appeals for the 

District of Columbia 

APRIL TERM, 1934. 

No. 6287 ! 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., A CORPORATION, 

APPELLANT, | 

VS. 

JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL! 


APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE 

OF COLUMBIA. 


DISTRICT 


INDEX. 


Caption . 

Bill of Complaint. 

Exhibit “A” . 

Exhibit “R” . 

Exhibit “C” . 

Exhibit “D” . 

Exhibit “E" . 

Exhibit “F” . 

Exhibit “G” . 

Motion to dismiss. 

Decree granting motion to dismiss. 

Notation of appeal. 

Citation on appeal. 

Order setting appeal bond. 

Memorandum : $50.00 deposit in lieu of bond on appeal 

Assignment of errors. 

Docket entries . 

Designation of record. 

Clerk's certificate . 


I 

I 


Original 

Print 

1 

|l 

1 

2|3 

19 

* 

24 

311 

27 

4b 

35 

4^ 

38 

53 

47 

si 

52 


58 

62 

59 

eb 

60 

6b 

60 

64 

61 

65 

61 

6i 

61 

6(t 

62 


63 

6b 

63 


Judd & Detweiler (Inc.), Printers, Washington, D. C., September 5, 1934. 
—5367-C. 
























I 

I 


United States Court of Appeals for the 

District of Columbia 

I 

— 

No. 6287. | 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc., &c., Appellant, 

vs. | 

James A. Farley, an Individual. 


a Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. 

In Equity. j 

No. 57040. 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, Plaintiff, 

vs. j 

James A. Farley, an Individual, Defendant. 

United States of America, 

District of Columbia, ss: 

Be it remembered, That in the Supreme Couj-t of the 
District of Columbia, at the City of Washington, in said 
District, at the times hereinafter mentioned, the following 
papers were filed and proceedings had, in the above-entitled 
cause, to wit: j 

i 

1 Bill of Complaint for Injunction. 

Filed April 18, 1934. 

i 

In the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, Holding 

an Equitv Court. 

In Equity. 

No. 57040. j 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, Plaintiff, 

against 

James A. Farley, an Individual, Defendant]. 

Bill of Complaint. 

i 

To the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia holding 
a Court of Equity: 

The plaintiff, Boeing Air Transport, Inc., a corporation, 
brings its bill of complaint against the above named de- 

1—6287<z 



2 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


fendant James A. Farley, the Postmaster General of the 
United States, individually, and respectfully shows unto 
this Honorable Court as follows: 

1. That the plaintiff, Boeing Air Transport, Inc., is a 
citizen of the United States, to wit, a corporation organ¬ 
ized and existing under the laws of the State of Washing¬ 
ton; that the j said plaintiff was organized February 17, 
1927, and has its principal place of business in the City of 
Seattle, State of Washington, and that it is authorized, 
among other things, to engage in commerce and to carry 
on the business of transporting by air, passengers, freight, 
mail and other articles; that all of its officers, stockholders 
and directors are citizens of the United States. 

2 2. That the defendant James A. Farlev is and 

since March 4, 1933 has been the duly appointed and 
acting Postmaster General of the United States, and is a 
citizen and resident of the United States and resides in the 
City of Washington, District of Columbia. The defendant 
Farley is sought herein to be restrained from doing certain 
acts purportedly as Postmaster General of the United 
States, which acts are not within the powers granted to him 
as Postmaster General by law and, therefore, if done, would 
not be official acts of the Government bv its Postmaster 

General. The defendant Farlev is sued individuallv and 

* • 

not in his official capacity of Postmaster General of the 
United States. 

3. This suit arises under the Constitution and Laws of 

i 

the United States. The particular provision of the Con¬ 
stitution involved is the Fifth Amendment to the Constitu¬ 
tion and the particular laws involved are Revised Statutes, 
Section 3950, United States Code, Title 39, Section 465c, 
and the other statutes of the United States pertaining to 
the postal service. The amount in controversy exceeds the 
sum of $3,000 in value, exclusive of interest and costs. 

4. Plaintiff is advised and avers that the purported order 
of the defendant, dated February 9, 1934, hereinafter re¬ 
ferred to, purporting to annul the contracts for the carry¬ 
ing of air mail therein designated, is illegal and void be¬ 
cause beyond the authority, power or jurisdiction of the 
defendant, and because it is unconstitutional in that it 
results in depriving the plaintiff of its property without 
due process of law and constitutes an illegal taking of its 
property without just compensation in violation of the 




3 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of tli'p United 
States. 

3 5. That on or about the 15th % day of November, 

1926, the then Postmaster General of tlie United 
States, pursuant to Sections 421 and 464 of Titlej 39 of the 
United States Code, caused advertisements to be published 
requesting that proposals or bids be submitted for the 
carrving of mail bv air for the route known as Ropte A. M. 
18 between the points of Chicago and San Franpisco, via 
Omaha, Nebraska, Cheyenne, Wyoming and Salt Lake City, 


6. That pursuant to such advertisements the following 
proposals or bids for carrying the mail for Route} A. M. 18 
were submitted and opened, in accordance with Section 425 
of Title 39 of the United States Code, on Januarv 15, 1927: 

(a) Boeing Airplane Company and Edward Hubbard, 
Georgetown Station, Seattle, Washington, at the? rate of 
$1.50 per pound for the first thousand miles and 15 cents 
per pound for each additional 100 miles; 

(b) Western Air Express, Inc., at the rate of $2.24 per 
pound the first 1,000 miles, and 22.4 cents for each addi¬ 
tional 100 miles; 

(c) Stout Air Services, Inc., at the rate of $2.64 per 
pound the first 1,000 miles, and 26.4 cents for e^ch addi¬ 
tional 100 miles; 

(d) Columbia Air Liners, at the rate of $4.47 pdr pound. 

7. That on or about February 1, 1927, the tli^n Post¬ 
master General, acting in accordance with Sections 429 and 
464 of Title 39 of the United States Code and in accordance 
with the other provisions of law, awarded the contract for 

the carrying of mail by air over Route A. f\[. 18 to 
4 Boeing Airplane Company and Edward Hubbard as 
being the lowest qualified bidder tendering Sufficient 
guarantees for faithful performance in accordance with 
the terms of the advertisement. A copy of said contract 
is annexed hereto as Exhibit “A” and made a part hereof. 
The Boeing Airplane Company and Edward Hubbard duly 
filed a performance bond in the amount of $500,0Q0 as re¬ 
quired by Section- 426 and 427 of Title 39 of the United 
States Code. 

8. That thereafter on April 29, 1927, and prior to the 
time for the commencement of the service on Route A. M. 
18, which was to begin July 1, 1927, the said contract be- 



4 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


tween Boeing Airplane Company and Edward Hubbard 
and the United States was sublet, by Boeing Airplane Com¬ 
pany and Edward Hubbard to the plaintiff, Boeing Air 
Transport, Ina, with the concurrence and approval of the 
then Postmaster General of the United States, in accord¬ 
ance with Section 445 of Title 39 of the United States Code 
and the other provisions of law. A copy of said subcon¬ 
tract is attached hereto and marked Exhibit “B” and 
made a part hereof. 

9. That the performance by the plaintiff under the con¬ 
tract began on July 1, 1927, and such contract has never 
been sublet or transferred, except as stated in paragraph 
8 hereof, nor has any agreement been made with anyone 
to operate or perform part of the service required by such 
contract. Such contract, subcontract or route certificate, 
hereinafter referred to, was not awarded to the said Boe¬ 
ing Airplane Company and Edward Hubbard, or to the 
plaintiff by fraud, collusion or any illegal means. Neither 
said Boeing Airplane Company nor said Edward Hubbard 
nor the plaintiff have ever entered, or proposed to enter, 
into any combination to prevent the making of any bid for 

carrying the mail, nor have they, or any of them, 
5 made any agreement, given or performed, or prom¬ 
ised to give or perform any consideration whatso¬ 
ever to induce any other person not to bid for any contract 

to carrv mail. 

* 

10. That plaintiff has fully and satisfactorily performed 
all the services and complied with all the terms and con¬ 
ditions required by such contract and the laws of the United 
States and the rules, regulations and orders of the Post 
Office Department relating thereto. At all times the United 
States has accepted and paid for such services as satis¬ 
factory 

11. That for many years it has been the policy of the 
United States Government and of the Post Office Depart¬ 
ment to foster commercial aviation. This policy included 
the encouragement of the maintenance of an aircraft man¬ 
ufacturing industry whose plants could be adapted to mili¬ 
tary needs in time of war, the maintenance of an air trans¬ 
port system in order to insure a reserve of trained pilots, 
and the development of more efficient airplanes, safety 
devices and equipment. To carry out this policy the Con¬ 
gress of the United States provided that the air mail should 
be carried by commercial air transport companies and not 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


5 


by an air mail service operated by the United Spates. To 
establish a reliable and efficient air mail service and to 


foster commercial aviation Congress enacted the 


following 


statutes, to wit: 

(A) On February 2, 1925, an Act known as the 1 Air Mail 
Act (43 Stat. 805) was enacted. The Act gave the Post¬ 
master General authority to make contracts forj the car¬ 
riage of mail by air. By the Act the pay of contractors 
was limited to four-fifths of the postal air mail] revenue 
derived from the carriage of mail over a particular route, 

and contracts were let on the basis of thc| amount 

6 of weight of air mail actually carried. The contracts 

were for a period of four years. The contract for 

Route A. M. 18 was made pursuant to this statute as 
amended June 3, 1926, Ch. 460. 

(B) To establish and maintain air transportation service 
which would efficiently and safelv meet the needs of the 
public and of the air mail service a large investment by 
the air transport companies was required. This invest¬ 
ment was jeopardized by the fact that all existing air mail 
contracts were for a term of four years only. T<j protect 
this large investment and to give assurance to air trans¬ 
port companies that they could carry air mail for ji period 
of ten years upon satisfactorily performing the service re¬ 
quired, Congress, on May 17, 1928, passed the ^o-called 
Kelly Act (45 Stat. 594), amending Section 3 of the Act of 
February 2, 1925. This statute provided that the Post¬ 
master General, upon the surrender of the air irjail con¬ 
tract by a contractor who had satisfactorily performed the 
services therein provided for a period of two years or 
more, could issue in substitution therefor an air mail 
route certificate. Such certificate was to provide (hat for 
a period not to exceed ten years the holder should have 
the right to carry air mail over the route set out. in the 
certificate, as long as he complied with the rules, j regula¬ 
tions and orders of the Postmaster General. The rate of 
compensation was to be determined by negotiation between 
the certificate holder and the Postmaster General, but was 
not to exceed the rate of compensation provided in the 
original contract for carrying air mail. The Act also pro¬ 
vided that such certificates could be cancelled at a^y time 
for wilful neglect to carry out the rules, regulations or 

orders issued bv the Postmaster General, and that 

7 notice of such intended cancellation should b£ given 

in writing and an opportunity to answer such (written 



6 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 

notice of the Postmaster General should be afforded the 
holder. 

(C) Beginning in 1928, it was realized that the system 
adopted by the United States and the Post Office Depart¬ 
ment of paying air mail transport companies on the basis 
of the amount of mail carried was inequitable and unprofit¬ 
able to air transport companies. At that time compensa¬ 
tion was based on the amount of air mail carried without 
regard to the distance. To remove this inequitable method 
of payment and to promote the policy of developing an 
efficient air transportation service both for the carrying of 
passengers and of air mail, Congress passed the so-called 
AVatres Act (39 United States Code, Section 465c), on 
April 29, 1930, amending the Kelly Act mentioned in para¬ 
graph 11(B) hereof. The statute changed the basis of pay¬ 
ment from the amount of air mail carried to the number 
and regularity of flights made between certain points by 
airplanes having a certain air mail space capacity. The 
Act provides as follows: 

“The Postmaster General may, if in his judgment the 
public interest will be promoted thereby, upon the sur¬ 
render of any air-mail contract, issue in substitution there¬ 
for a route certificate for a period of not exceeding ten 
years from the date service started under such contract to 

anv contractor or subcontractor who has satisfactorilv 
* * 

operated an air-mail route for a period of not less than 

two years, which certificate shall provide that the holder 

thereof shall have the right, so long as he complies with all 

rules, regulations and orders that mav be issued bv the 

Postmaster General for meeting the needs of the Postal 

Service and adjusting mail operations to the advances in 

the art of flying and passenger transportation, to carry 

air mail over the route set out in the certificate or anv 

• 

modification thereof at rates of compensation to be fixed 
from time to time, at least annually, by the Postmaster 
General, and he shall publish in his annual report his rea¬ 
sons for the continuance or the modification of anv rates: 

% 

Provided, That such rates shall not exceed $1.25 per mile. 

Such certificate mav be cancelled at anv time for 
8 willful neglect on the part of the holder to carry 
out any rules, regulations, or orders made for his 
guidance, notice of such intended cancellation to be given 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. ! 7 

I 

in writing by the Postmaster General and forty-jfive days 
allowed the holder in which to show cause whv! the cer- 

I 

tificate should not be cancelled.” 

12. On or about the 29th day of October, 193Q, relying 
upon the above statute and the policy of Congresi and the 
United States as above set forth, and upon its] right to 
notice and opportunity for a hearing prior to any can¬ 
cellation of its certificate, the plaintiff offered to surrender 
its contract for Route A. M. 18, in accordance with the pro¬ 
visions of the Wat res Act. Pursuant to the authority 
vested in him under such Act, the Postmaster General ac¬ 
cepted the surrender of the said contract and issued in sub¬ 
stitution therefor Route Certificate A. M. 18 to the plain¬ 
tiff. A copy of such Route Certificate A. M. 18 is annexed 
hereto marked Exhibit “C” and is made a part hereof. 
According to the terms of said route certificate the plain¬ 
tiff carrier for the period ending April 5, 1936, ivas obli¬ 
gated to make eight flights each day at certain hoi^rs of the 
day and night, by planes having a specified air mail ca¬ 
pacity, over the route from Chicago, Illinois, viaj Omaha, 
Nebraska and Salt Lake City, Utah to San Francisco, 
California and return. During this period it was granted 
tlie right, upon the terms and conditions mentioned in such 
certificate, to receive therefor the compensation set forth 
in the certificate and the right to carry United Spates air 
mail over such route. 

By the terms of such certificate 60 days’ notice is re¬ 
quired before the Postmaster General (a) could modify 
said route by an extension, or prescribe the schedule of 
stops thereon or determine the mileage upon which the 
compensation of the carrier is to be based!; or (b) 
9 increase, diminish or modify the service prescribed 
in the certificate or make adjustment in the com¬ 
pensation of the carrier. The certificate further (provides 
that the certificate can be cancelled by the Postmaster Gen¬ 
eral for wilful neglect to carry out any rules or oijders for 
its guidance upon forty-five days’ notice, and th^t it can 
be cancelled for breach of the condition prescribed in para¬ 
graph 12 of the certificate. By virtue of this certificate the 
plaintiff acquired a vested property right to carry air mail 
and receive the compensation specified upon compliance 
with the terms and conditions of the certificate. 

13. On June 30, 1931, the Post Office Department of the 
United States in accordance with law ordered the plaintiff 



8 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


to extend its air mail service from Omaha, Nebraska, north, 
via Sioux City, Iowa, Sioux Falls, South Dakota, and ter¬ 
minating at Watertown, South Dakota. The length of this 
extension is 259 miles and service began on January 15, 
1932. The plaintiff has duly performed all the services 
required with reference to the carriage of mail over this 
extended route. On January 30, 1933 and February 10, 
1933 the plaintiff respectively subleased and subcontracted 
from American Airways, Inc., part of its Route A. M. 30 
to wit, the part thereof between Omaha, Nebraska, and 
Kansas City, Missouri, via St. Joseph, Missouri. Such 
sublease and subcontract were made in accordance with 
law and approved by the Postmaster General. A copy of 
such Subcontract for Air Mail Service, and such Sublease 
for Air Mail Service of Route A. M. 30 are attached hereto 
as Exhibits “D” and “E”, respectively, and are made a 
part hereof. The operation of this part of Route A. M. 
30 by the plaintiff began on February 10, 1933. 

14. Pursuant to said Route Certificates, the plaintiff 
entered into the performance of its duties under 

10 said certificates and has duly performed all of the 
terms and conditions thereof on its part to be per¬ 
formed. The plaintiff has violated no law, rule or order 
of the United States or of the Post Office Department either 
in obtaining its route certificates or in the operation of its 
transport facilities which would give cause or justification 
for the cancellation of such certificates. 

15. In reliance upon the rights conferred by such route 
certificates to carry mail for a period of ten years the 
plaintiff, in accordance with the obligations of the cer¬ 
tificates, has supplied night and day flying service for pas¬ 
sengers, express and air mail, and has made a very sub¬ 
stantial investment in land, buildings and improvements, 
airplanes, engines and other equipment. In reliance upon 
the rights granted to the plaintiff under said route cer¬ 
tificates, it has built a large business having a value as a 
going concern of many millions of dollars. In reliance 
upon said route certificates, the plaintiff has entered into 
many long term leases of property in connection with its 
air transport facilities. All of its property is specially 
adapted to its business as a carrier of passenger-, mail and 
express by air over said routes, and has no substantial 
value except in its business. In order to comply with the 
terms of said route certificates the plaintiff has incurred 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


9 


obligations in large amount for the purchase of additional 
flying equipment. The plaintiff employs many employees, 
including pilots, mechanics and clerks whose employment 
depends upon the continued performance by the plaintiff 
of its obligations under said route certificates. 

16. That on the 15th day of July, 1931, the plaifitiff en¬ 
tered into a management contract (a copy of which is 
attached hereto and marked Exhibit “F”) with United Air 
Lines, Inc., a Delaware Corporation, under the terms of 
which the United Air Lines, Inc., was to seifve as a 
11 coordinating agency for the plaintiff’s businjess and 
that of National Air Transport, Inc., Pacific Air 
Transport, and Varney Air Lines, Inc., as constituting an 
integrated airline service known as the 4 ‘United System”. 
The purpose and effect of such management contract was 
to promote economy and efficiency in such operating com¬ 
panies, to reduce their operating, administrative, general 
accounting, engineering, advertising and purchasing ex¬ 
penses, and to assist in the policy adopted by the United 
States to foster commercial aviation and air mail service. 

Each of the companies in the United System operates as 
an independent unit. The operations of the United System 
consist of air transportation over the following Routes: 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc. —Route A. M. 1^—2,027 
miles—Chicago, Illinois to San Francisco, California via 
Omaha, Nebraska and Salt Lake City, Utah. Extension: 
Omaha, Nebraska to Watertown, South Dakota—259 miles. 

Route A. M. 30 (part thereof sublet from American Air¬ 
ways, Inc.)—239 miles—Omaha, Nebraska to Kansas City, 
Kansas. 

National Air Transport , Inc. —Route A. M. 3l—1,048 
miles—Chicago, Illinois to Dallas, Texas, via Kansas City, 
Kansas; Wichita, Kansas; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; and 
via Kansas City, Kansas; Tulsa, Oklahoma, including 
Ponca City, Oklahoma to Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Oklahoma 
City to Tulsa. J 

Route A. M. 17—736 miles—New York City to Chicago 
via Cleveland. 

Pacific Air Transport. —Route A. M. 8—1,238 gules— 
Seattle, Washington to San Diego, California via San 
Francisco, California. 

Varneij Air Lines , Inc. —Route A. M. 5—1,017 ihiles— 
Salt Lake City, Utah to Portland, Seattle and Splokane, 
Washington, via Boise, Idaho. 



10 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


12 17. The United System has flown over 65 million 

miles, a greater mileage than has been flown by any 
other air transportation system. Of this total miles approx- 
imatelv half were flown at night. It is generally considered 
to be the most efficient air transport system in the world. 
It has a record of completing about 96 per cent of its sched¬ 
uled trips. The United System carried air mail in an 
amount over three million pounds per annum. This is over 
40 per cent of the total air mail in the United States. In 
accordance with the desires of the United States Govern¬ 


ment, Unitedi Air Lines, Inc., has built up its passenger 
business from 25,000 passengers in 1930 to over 160,000 in 
1933. The United Air Lines, Inc., has a total investment in 
land, buildings, etc., of over $2,750,000, and a total invest¬ 
ment in flying equipment of over $4,500,000. The capital 
and surplus of United Air Lines, Inc., is over $8,000,000. 
Payments by the United States for carrying air mail have 
steadily decreased from a total of about $8,000,000 in 1931 
to a total of about $5,000,000 in 1933. During the last six 
months of 1933, United Air Lines, Inc., received for carry¬ 
ing air mail an average of 1.6 mills per pound-mile. This 
is almost exactly the amount the Post Office Department 
receives from stamp revenue for air mail. The United 
System during the last six months of 1933 received about 
45% of its operating revenue in carrying mail and about 
52 1 /l»% in carrying passengers, the balance being mostly 
received from carrying express. The average speed of 
operation has been increased from 115 miles per hour in 
1927 to over 170 miles per hour in 1933. The equipment 
of the United System is the best procurable. In purchas¬ 
ing such equipment, no price advantage is given to the 
United System. United Air Lines, Inc., and its operating 
companies have never paid excessive salaries, and 
13 have not paid any bonuses of any nature. The ad¬ 
ministrative costs have been less than half those of 


any other comparable air line. The affiliation of plaintiff 
with the United System has resulted in the development of 
a reliable and efficient air mail and passenger service over 
Routes A. M2 18 and 30, has made available to plaintiff 
greater flying equipment and other facilities for emergency 
periods, and has thus fostered commercial aviation and 
the air mail service. 


18. That on February 9, 1934, without giving notice or 
opportunity for hearing to the plaintiff, defendant James 



I 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. i H 

! 

A. Farley, purporting to act in his official capacity as Post¬ 
master General of the United States, but in reality acting 
individually, arbitrarily, and without any proper |or ade¬ 
quate examination of the facts, capriciously and without any 
legal authority therefor, and acting outside and j beyond 
the scope of the exercise of discretionary power granted 
him as Postmaster General by law, issued a writing pur¬ 
porting to be an order issued in his official capacity ^is Post¬ 
master General, purporting to cancel the Plaintiff’fc Route 
Certificates Nos. A. M. IS and A. M. 30. A copy! of this 
purported order is set forth below: 

“ February 9, '1934. 

* i 


“Pursuant to the authority vested in me by Section 3950, 
Revised Statutes of the United States, Act of June 8, 1872 
(39 United States Code, Section 432), and by virtue) of the 
general powers of the Postmaster General, it is Ordered 
that the following air mail contracts be, and they are here¬ 
by annulled effective midnight February 19, 1934, viz: 


“Route number. Contracts held by 

A. M. 1.American Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 2.American Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 3.National Air Transport, Inc. 

A. M. 4.Western Air Express, Inc. 

A. M. 5.Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

A. M. 8.Pacific Air Transport 

14 

A. M. 9.Northwest Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 9.Kohler Aviation Corporation 

A. M. 11.Pennsylvania Airlines, Inc. 

A. M. 12.Western Air Express, Inc. 

A. M. 17.National Air Transport, Inc. 

A. M. 18.Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

A. M. 19.Eastern Air Transport, Inc. 

A. M. 20.American Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 21.American Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 22.American Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 23.American Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 24.American Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 26.National Parks Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 27.American Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 29.American Airways, Inc. 


i 




i 


I 


i 
























12 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


“Route number. Contracts held by 

A. M. 30. . .American Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 30.Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

A. M. 30. . .United States Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 33. . .American Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 34. . . .Transcontinental and Western Air, Inc. 

“ (Signed) JAMES A. FARLEY, 

Postmaster General 


19. On February 10, 1934, the plaintiff received from the 
defendant a telegram reading as follows: 

“You are hereby notified that I have entered the follow¬ 
ing order pursuant to the authority vested in me by Sec¬ 
tion 3950 Revised Statutes of the United States, Act of 
June 8, 1872 and 39 U. S. Code Section 432, and by virtue 
of the general powers of the Postmaster General it is or¬ 
dered that the following air mail contracts be and thev are 
hereby annulled effective midnight February 19, 1934, viz, 
route certificates and contracts held bv vou and including 
contract air mail route Nos. 18 and 30. You are instructed 
to receive no mail for transportation hereafter that can¬ 
not reach its destination with the effective date of the 
order. 


“JAMES A. FARLEY, 

i Postmaster General 

20. That since February 19, 1934, as a result of such 
purported order as set forth in paragraph 18 hereof, the 
plaintiff has received no mail for transportation as pro¬ 
vided in its said Route Certificates Nos. 18 and 30. The 
plaintiff alleges that the defendant Farley is attempting 

to carry out such purported order, and the plaintiff is 
15 informed and believes that the defendant Farlev lias 
issued instructions to the various Postmasters in the 
United States that plaintiff’s route certificates have been 
cancelled and that no mail is to be delivered to it. 

21. That plaintiff since February 9, 1934 has duly filed 
with the Postmaster General its protests against his action 
in declaring that Route Certificates A. M. 18 and 30 were 
annulled, and plaintiff furthermore has notified the Post¬ 
master General that it has been and is at all times readv, 

» 7 








JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


13 


able and willing to comply with all the terms and condi¬ 
tions of its said Route Certificates, to wit, as follows: ■ 

i 

(a) On February 16, 1934 plaintiff wrote a lettejr to de¬ 
fendant Farley, reading as follows: 

“P. 0. Box 00, 

Chicago, Illinois, 
February 16, 1934. 

“The Honorable James A. Farley, 

Postmaster General, 

Washington, D. C. 

i 

Dear Mr. Postmaster General: 

Receipt is acknowledged of your letter of February 13, 
1934, enclosing copy of the order and telegram therein re¬ 
ferred to, by which order you have directed that Ajir Mail 
Contract No. 18 be annulled effective February 19, 1934. 

As authority for your action, you appear to reljc upon 
Section 432 of Title 39 of the United States Code[ which 
provides for the annulment of mail contracts in certain 
cases of combinations or agreements to prevent bidding. 
We respectfully protest that that section furnishes np justi¬ 
fication for the action vou have taken in the case of this 
Company. We have at no time entered into any suqh com¬ 
bination or agreement. 

We have seen reference in the public press to the charge 
that contracts for the carriage of air mail were let pursuant 
to collusive agreements reached at a so-called conference of 
air mail operators called at the direction of Postpiaster 
General Walter F. Brown in the spring of 1930. No such 
collusive agreement was made by us. In this connection, 
we call vour attention to the fact that the air mail contract 
covering this Company’s Route No. 18 was awarded 
16 under date of January 29,1927, prior to the said con¬ 
ference and after competitive bidding in which the 
original contractors, our predecessors in interest, wpre the 
lowest qualified bidders. No extension has ever been made 
of the said route, except that, by order of the Post Office 
Department, dated January 16, 1932, this Company was 
directed to operate the branch route between Omaha, Ne¬ 
braska, and Watertown, South Dakota, which branch was 
neither sought nor desired by this Company. The opera¬ 
tion of this branch was commenced only upon the insistence 
of the Postmaster General. This Company is also subles- 


i 

I 



14 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


see of that portion of Route Xo. 30 which runs between 
Omaha, Nebraska, and Kansas City, Missouri. This sub¬ 
lease was accepted upon the instruction of the Postmaster 
General. The original contract for this route was also 
awarded prior to the said conference and to the lowest qiial- 
itied bidder upon competitive bidding. 

Since your contemplated action would work irreparable 
damage to the Company, its employees and shareholders, we 
respectfully request that the order above referred to be 
suspended until such time as opportunity shall have been 
had for a hearing to which we believe vou will recognize 
we are entitled as a matter both of right and of equity. 

“Respectfully yours, 

(Signed) W. A. PATTERSON, 

i President, Boeing Air Transport, Inc.' 7 


(b) On February 16, 1934 plaintiff, together with the 
other three corporations affiliated with it, as hereinabove in 
paragraph 16 set forth, wrote a letter to defendant Farley 
setting forth; the facts surrounding the initial letting of 
contracts to the several companies constituting the United 
Airlines. A copy of this letter is attached hereto and 
marked Exhibit “G”. 

(c) On February 19, 1934 plaintiff sent the following 
telegram to defendant Farlev: 


i “Chicago, Illinois, 

February 19, 1934. 

“Honorable James A. Farley, 

Postmaster General, 

Washington, D. C. 

“This Company is ready comma able and willing to fly 
planes and carry mail as required by air mail Route Certifi¬ 
cates for Routes Five comma eighteen and that portion of 
Route Thirty between Omaha Nebraska and Kansas City 
Missouri Stop Respectfully request you issue appropriate 
instructions to Postmasters to deliver air mail to us as 
heretofore. 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC.” 


17 (d) On March 7, 1934 plaintiff, together with the 

three affiliated companies as in subdivision (b) above- 
mentioned, having received no reply to any of the afore- 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


15 


said communications, wrote defendant Farley another let¬ 
ter reading as follows: 

“New York City, 

March 7, j 1934. 

“Honorable James A. Farlev, 

Postmaster General of the United States, 

Washington, D. C. 

Dear Sir: 

On the 16th day of February, 1934, we wrote you,j setting 
forth the facts surrounding the initial letting of contracts 
to the several companies constituting the United Aij Lines. 

In that letter, to which we have received no reply, we 
asserted our belief that you had been misinformed con¬ 
cerning our participation in the so-called conference of air 
mail operators, held at the Post Office Department, on the 
19th day of May, 1930, and requested an opportunity of 
meeting with you in order that we might fully advfse you 
of our position. 

In the three weeks intervening, since writing you, certain 
events have made our situation more critical. We are now 
losing in excess of $250,000 a month, a great number of 
employes are being retained unnecessarily if we are no 
longer to carry the air mail, and, in addition, we have been 
refused full payment due for services rendered during the 
months of January and February. 

From this it is apparent that in fairness to ourj stock¬ 
holders and to our employes, we must speedily determine 
our course of action. We again respectfully request the 
opportunity of presenting to you all the facts relative to 
our air mail contracts. 

“Yours very truly. 


“BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INCi, 
NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC. 
PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, 

VARNEY AIR LINES, INC., 

By UNITED AIR LINES, INC., 

(Signed) P. G. JOHNSON, 

Pres.” 

i 

22. Plaintiff is advised and alleges that the purported 
order and telegram set forth in paragraphs 18 and 19 





16 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


hereof are illegal, void and beyond the power and juris¬ 
diction of the defendant Farley to make, in that 

18 (a)i The plaintiff has not violated any law, regu¬ 
lation or order pertaining to the postal service; 

(b) The plaintiff has complied with all of the terms or 
conditions of the said route certificates; 

(c) The defendant Farley has no power or authority 
under the laws of the United States relating to the postal 
service, and particularly under Revised Statutes, Section 
3950, to annul or cancel said route certificates; 

(d) The provisions of Revised Statutes, Section 3950, 
are not applicable to route certificates issued for carrying 
air mail; 

(e) Such route certificates can be annulled only by proper 
judicial proceeding for that purpose; 

(f) In any event, such route certificates cannot be can¬ 
celled or annulled without giving to the plaintiff proper 
notice and opportunity to be heard and present evidence in 
refutation of any reasons which may be given for such pro¬ 
posed cancellation or annulment. 

(g) The action of Farley was otherwise not in accord¬ 
ance with law. 

23. That the plaintiff is being deprived of its property 
without due process of law in violation of the Fifth Amend¬ 
ment to the Constitution of the United States in that it 
has not been notified of or given an opportunity to be 
heard as to wjhether its route certificates should be cancelled 
or whether it has violated any of the rules, regulations or 

orders of the Postmaster General, and in that the 

19 action of the Postmaster General in purporting to 
annul the route certificates of the plaintiff is wholly 

arbitrary, capricious, illegal and without authority or color 
of law. 

24. Plaintiff further alleges that upon information and 
belief the defendant Farley intends to prevent the plaintiff 
from bidding on any mail contract or carriage for a period 
of five years as a penalty for an alleged violation of Revised 
Statutes, Section 3950, and that such prevention would be 
illegal and contrary to the Constitution and laws of the 
United States and would deprive the plaintiff of its liberty 
and of a valuable right and cause it irreparable damage for 
which the plaintiff has no adequate remedy at law. It will 
be forced to discharge its pilots, mechanics and other em- 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


17 


plovees, since without the revenue, derived from| the said 
route certificates the plaintiff cannot operate except with 
irreparable damage to the plaintiff and its stockholders. 
The purported cancellation of its route certificates has 
caused and will continue to cause the plaintiff t|o be de¬ 
prived of its property in that that property is without sub¬ 
stantial value except in connection with its business of 
transporting passengers and air mail. Such purported can¬ 
cellation will compel the plaintiff to abrogate many con¬ 
tracts, leases and obligations which it has incurred, and 
such abrogation will result in irreparable injury to the 
plaintiff and many other persons. Such purported cancel¬ 
lation of its route certificates has caused and will continue 
to cause damage to the plaintiff which will be incapable 
of being measured and adjudicated at law. 

25. The plaintiff is without a clear, adequate an£ speedy 
remedy at law, and only by the injunctive procesb of this 
Court can it be fully protected in the enjovmeht of its 
property rights under the route certificates and under the 
Constitution and laws of the United States and in the pro¬ 
tection of its business, property and good will. 

20 Wherefore, inasmuch as the plaintiff is j without 
remedy except in a Court of Equity and to the end 
that it may obtain from this Court the relief to which it is 
by right and equity entitled, the plaintiff respectfully prays: 

(A) That the defendant be directed to answer this bill 
of complaint, but not under oath, the answer under oath 
being hereby expressly waived. 

(B) That the defendant, his agents, subordinates and 
employees and each of them be enjoined and rest rained 
from in any manner enforcing or attempting to enforce 
the purported order of the defendant Farley, dated Feb¬ 
ruary 9, 1934, purporting to annul the plaintiff’s Route 
Certificates A. M. 18 and A. M. 30. 

(C) That the defendant Farley be commanded and di¬ 
rected by this Court to revoke so much of his purported 
order of February 9,1934, set forth in paragraph 19 hereof, 
as relates to Routes A. M. Nos. 18 and 30. 

(D) That defendant Farley be enjoined and restrained 
from imposing or attempting to impose any penalty upon 
plaintiff by reason of the said purported order. 

2—6287 a 




18 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


(E) That the plaintiff have judgment against defendant 
Farley for all such damages as, upon the determination 
of this cause, shall be found bv this Court to have been 
caused to plaintiff by the unauthorized, unlawful and arbi¬ 
trary acts of defendant Farley, herein complained of. 

(F) That the plaintiff have such other and further relief 
as to the Court may seem just and equitable in the premises. 

(G) And plaintiff further prays that a hearing and de¬ 
termination of this suit be had as soon as the defendant has 

been serviced and given a reasonable opportunity to 

21 answer this suit, and that upon final hearing the 
defendant, his agents, subordinates and employees, 

and each of them, be enjoined and restrained perpetually 
as hereinbefore prayed. Plaintiff also prays that a writ 
of subpoena issue herein directed to the above named de¬ 
fendant commanding him on a day certain to appear and 
answer this bill of complaint. 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
Bv WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, 

Its Attorney. 

WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, 

Attorney for Plaintiff, 

1010 Slioreham Building, 

Washington, D. C. 

FREDERICK W. JACKSON, 

Of Counsel. 

Verification. 

William J. Donovan, being first duly sworn, under oath 
deposes and says: 

That he is the attorney for the complainant above named. 
The said complainant is a foreign corporation and has no 
officer or agent in the District of Columbia; therefore he 
makes this verification for and on behalf of said complain¬ 
ant, and as its said attorney; that he has read the foregoing 
bill of complaint and knows the contents thereof; that his 
knowledge of the matters alleged in said bill is derived from 
personal investigation of the facts, conferences with offi¬ 
cers and employees of the complainant corporation, exam¬ 
ination of the contracts, route certificates and cor- 

22 respondence between the complainant and officers 
of the Post Office Department; that he verily believes 

the facts in the foregoing bill of complaint to be true. 

WILLIAM J. DONOVAN. 


19 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 

Subscribed and sworn to before me this 16th day of 
April, 1934. j 

[Seal of Richard A. Mahan, Notary Public.] j 

RICHARD A. MAHAN, 

Notary Publid y D. C. 

23 Exhibit “A”. 

j 

Contract for Air Mail Service. j 

Route No. CAM 18. 

Contractor’s Address: Boeing Airplane Co. Inc., and 
Edward Hubbard, Seattle, Wash. 

7 i 

Route Chicago, Ill., via Iowa City and Des Moinjes, Iowa, 
Omaha and North Platte, Nebr., Cheyenne and Rock 
Springs, Wyo., Salt Lake City, Utah, Elko and Re[no, Nev., 
and Sacramento, Calif., to San Francisco, Calif., an|d return. 

Rate of Pay $1.50 per pound for the first 1,000 njiiles and 
15 cents per pound for each additional 100 miles. 

This article of contract, made the twenty ninth day of 
January nineteen hundred and twenty seven, between the 
United States of America (acting in this behalf by the 
Postmaster General) and Boeing Airplane Co., Inc., and 
Edward Hubbard, Contractor; 

Witnesseth, that whereas Boeing Airplane Co., Inc., and 
Edward Hubbard has been accepted according to law as 
contractor for transporting the mails on route No. |CAM 18 
from Chicago, Ill., via the points specified aboveL to San 
Francisco, Calif., and return under an advertisement issued 
by the Postmaster General on November 15, 1926 for such 
service, which advertisement is hereby referred to and 
made by such reference a part of this contract, at the rate 
of $1.50 per pound for the first 1,000 miles and 15 dents per 
pound for each additional 100 miles, for a period not ex¬ 
ceeding four (4) years from the starting date specified in 
order of the Postmaster General, which date shall not be 
later than six months after award of this contract. 

Now, therefore, the said contractor undertake^, cove¬ 
nants, and agrees with the United States of Ameifica. 

First. To carry the mails offered with due celerity, cer¬ 
tainty and security, and in safe and suitable aircraft on the 
route described and on the schedule set forth by t}ie Post- 



20 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C ., VS. 


master General, the contractor to receive and deliver the 
mails at the designated fields and point on said fields as 
approved by the Postmaster General. 

Second. To carry said mails in a safe and secure manner, 
free from wet or other injury. 

Third. To be accountable and answerable in damages for 
the person to whom the contractor shall commit the care 
and transportation of the mails and his faithful perform¬ 
ance, of the obligations assumed herein and those imposed 
by law; not to commit the care of transportation of the mails 
to any persons under sixteen years of age, nor to any per¬ 
son undergoing a sentence of imprisonment at hard labor 
imposed by a court having criminal jurisdiction nor to any 
person not authorized by law to be concerned in contracts 
for carrying the mails. 

24 Fourth. For which serv-e when performed and 
evidence thereof shall have been filed with the Post¬ 
master General, the said contractor is to be paid by the 
United States at the rate specified above, payments to be 
made monthlv and as soon after the close of each month 

« i 

as accounts can be adjusted and settled, said pay to be 
subject, however, to be reduced or discontinued by the 
Postmaster General as hereinafter stipulated or to be 
suspended in case of delinquency. 

Fifth. It is hereby also stipulated and agreed that deduc¬ 
tions in pay will be made for suffering the mails to become 
wet, injured, or destroyed, or when a grade of service is 
rendered inferior to that stipulated in the contract, or for 
the loss of or depredation upon the mails in the custody 
of the contractor or his agent, provided the loss is occa¬ 
sioned bv their fault. 

Sixth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed by the 
contractor that fhe Postmaster General may annul the con¬ 
tract or impose forfeitures, in his discretion, for repeated 
failures or for failure to perform service according to con¬ 
tract; for violating the Postal Laws and Regulations; for 
subletting service without the consent of the Postmaster 
General, or assigning or transferring the contract; for 
combining to prevent others from bidding for the perform¬ 
ance of postal service, and such annulment shall not impair 
the right of the Department to claim damages from the 
contractor and his sureties. 

Seventh. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed that 
this contract may be terminated whenever, in the judgment 



I 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. | 21 

of the Postmaster General, the interest of the Postal Service 

7 • I 

shall so require, upon serving notice upon the contractor at 
least one year prior to such termination, provided, that in 
case of such discontinuance of service, as a full indemnitv 
to the contractor, one month’s extra pay, based on the aver¬ 
age pay for the preceding six months period, or ftill period 
of service if less than six months, shall be allowed. 

Eighth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed that 
no Member of or Delegate to Congress shall be admitted to 
any share or part of this contract or agreement or any 
benefit to arise therefrom. 

Ninth. That at anv time during the continuance of this 
contract the Postmaster General may require new; or addi¬ 
tional sureties upon the bond hereto annexed, if, in his 
opinion, such sureties are necessary for the proper pro¬ 
tection of the interests of the United States; and that the 
contractor shall furnish such sureties to the satisfaction of 
the Postmaster General within ten days after notice so to 
do; and in default thereof this contract may be annulled, at 
the option of the Postmaster General. 

Tenth. The contractor expressly warrants that: he has 
employed no third person to solicit or obtain this contract 
in his behalf, or to cause or procure the same tb be ob¬ 
tained upon compensation in any way contingent, jin whole 
or in part, upon such procurement; and that he has inot paid, 
or promised or agreed to pay, to any third persoij, in con¬ 
sideration of such procurement, or in compensation for 
service in connection therewith, anv brokerage, Icommis- 

/ * o / I 

sion, or percentage upon the amount receivable by him here¬ 
under, and that he has not, in estimating the contract price 
demanded bv him included anv sum bv reason of anv such 

* * v J •/ 

brokerage, commission, or percentage, and that all money 
payable to him hereunder is free from obligation to any 
other person for services rendered, or supposed to have 
been rendered in the procurement of this contract. He 
further agrees that any breach of this warranty s^all con¬ 
stitute adequate cause for the annulment of this contract 
by the United States, and that the United States may 
25 retain to its own use from any sums due or to become 
due thereunder an amount equal to any brpkerage, 
commission, or percentage so paid, or agreed to be paid. 

Eleventh. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed 
by the contractor that this contract is subject to all [the con- 



22 BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 

ditions imposed by law, and by the several acts of Congress 
relating to post offices and post roads, and the conditions 
stated in the advertisement pursuant to which this contract 
is made. 

Twelfth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed that 
this contract may, in the discretion of the Postmaster Gen¬ 
eral, be continued in force beyond its express terms for a 
period not exceeding six months until a new contract with 
the same or other contractors shall be made by the Post¬ 
master General. 

Thirteenth. In view of the fact that the payment of the 
contractor includes the weight of the equipment as well as 
the mail, it is stipulated and agreed the Department will not 
pay for the transportation over this route of any intercom¬ 
pany mail addressed to the contractor or his agents and 
pertaining to company business, nor will the Department 
pay for any parcels carried over this route consigned to or 
for the use of the contractor. 

Fourteenth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed 
that the distances for purposes of computation of payment 
to the contractor shall be considered as from center of citv 
to center of city (designated as stops on the route) in an 
air line. 

Fifteenth. I( is hereby further stipulated and agreed that 
whenever an existing stop is discontinued, or an additional 
stop added, in accordance with the provisions as set forth 
in this contract, the distance over the route will be restated 
and payment for the units of one hundred miles or fraction 
thereof in addition to the first one thousand miles will be 
made on the same basis as before. Where the distance 
formerly was less than one thousand miles, the rate for each 
hundred miles or fraction thereof in excess of one thousand 
miles under the restatement shall be in the same ratio as 
the original bid was to the maximum allowed bv law. 

Sixteenth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed that 
the mail compartment of planes used in the transportation 
of mail, designated as such by the Post Office Department, 
must meet with the approval of the Postmaster General, 
insofar as location, size and construction is concerned. 

In witness wfiereof, the Postmaster General has executed 
this contract in behalf of the United States and caused the 
seal of the Post Office Department to be affixed thereto, and 
the said contractor has hereunto set his hand and seal. The 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


23 


typewritten changes in the form of advertisement were 
made before this contract was signed. 

Signed, sealed and delivered in behalf of thb United 
States this 1st day of February, 1927. 

[seal.] ' UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 

By HARRY S. NEW, j 

Postmaster General. 

Witnesses to signature of contractor. 

ALICE MUMMENHOFF. | 

Signed this 31st dav of January, 1927. 

BOEING AIRPLANE CO., 

Bv W. E. BOEING, 

Chairman of the poard. 

EDWARD HUBBARD, 

Contractor. 

Witnesses to signature of contractor. 

V. E. VANDERSCHAAF. 

R. M. WATERS. I 

i 

26 Certificate of Oath by the Contractor. I 

(Required by Law.) 

I, the undersigned, being employed in the care, custody, 
and conveyance of the mail as contractor on the rouje named 
in the foregoing contract, do solemnlv swear that I will 
faithfully perform all duties required of me, and abstain 
from evervthing forbidden bv the laws in relatiob to the 
establishment of Post Offices and Post Roads within the 
United States; and that I will honestlv and trulv account 
for and pay over any money belonging to the said United 
States which may come into my possession or control. 

And I also further swear that I will support the Constitu¬ 
tion of the United States: So Help Me God. 

BOEING AIRPLANE CO., 
By W. E. BOEING, 

Chairman of the poard. 

EDWARD HUBBARD, 

Contractor. 

Sworn before the subscriber, a notary public, State of 
Columbia, this 31st day of January, 1927, and I alsd certify 
that the person named is not a postmaster, assistant post- 



24 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


master, or a clerk employed in a post office, nor a member 
of the immediate family of a postmaster or assistant post¬ 
master, and is to the best of my knowledge and belief, above 
the age of twentv-one vears. 

S * JANET W. LAKE. 

Approved as to form: 

HORACE J. DONNELLY, 

Solicitor. 

Approved as to fact: 

W. IRVING GLOVER, 

Second Assistant Postmaster General. 

27 Exhibit “B’\ 

Subcontract for Mail Service. 

Route No. CAM 18. 

This article of contract, made the 28th day of March 
nineteen hundred and twenty-seven between Boeing Air¬ 
plane Co. Inc., and Edward Hubbard, of Seattle, County 
of King, and State of Washington, contractor with the 
United States^ party (or parties) of the first part, and 
Boeing Air Transport, Inc., a Washington corporation of 
Seattle, County of King, and State of Washington, sub¬ 
contractor, party (or parties) of the second part, (reference 
being hereby made to original contract hereinafter men¬ 
tioned, dated January 29th, 1927, between United States 
of America and said first parties) 

Witnesseth, that whereas the said party (or parties) of 
the first part has executed a contract with the United 
States (acting in this behalf by the Postmaster General), 
according to law, for transporting the mail on Route No. 
CAM 18 from Chicago, State of Illinois, to San Francisco, 
State of California and back, — times a week for period 
stated in said original contract, reference being made 
hereto, on the schedule prescribed by the Post Office De¬ 
partment, and having obtained conditional permission to 
sublet the same, has made the following agreement with the 
said party (or parties) of the second part, to wit: 

The said party (or parties) of the second part, do jointly 
and severally undertake, covenant, and agree and do bind 
themselves and each of them to and with the said party (or 
parties) of the first part in the sum of One hundred Thou- 



23 


i 
l 

JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 

7 i 

sand Dollars, to transport the United States Mail on the 
said Route No. CAM 18, from Chicago, Ill., by rqute and 
points stated in original contract to San Franciscp, Calif., 
and back, (including the depositing and collecting |of mail 
along the route, as provided by the advertisements — 
times a week, for period stated in said original con- 
28 tract, reference being made thereto, on such Schedule 
as the Postmaster General may direct, and in full 
compliance with the postal laws and regulations andj subject 
to all the requirements of the said party of the fibst part 
under the said contract with the United States, for rate 
named in original contract viz: $1.50 per pound for first 
1000 miles and 15^ per pound for each additional 10D miles. 

And it is hereby further agreed that liability for ^11 fines 
and deductions imposed upon the party of the fipst part 
by the Postmaster General, for failures and delinquencies 
in the performance of service under this contract, shall be 
assumed and borne by the party of the second paft, and, 
if necessary, the Comptroller General may enforce this 
agreement by proper deductions from any compensation 
due the party of the second part for service performed 
under this contract. I 

And it is hereby further agreed that for any additional 
service required by the Postmaster General, and npt here¬ 
inbefore expressly stipulated, the party of the secoijd part 
shall be allowed not to exceed a pro rata increase pf com¬ 
pensation; and, in case of decrease, curtailment, br dis¬ 
continuance of service, as full indemnity, a pro rata of the 
one month’s extra pay allowed by the United States! to the 
party of tlie first part, and, unless previously herein! stipu¬ 
lated, not to exceed a pro rata compensation for th^ serv¬ 
ice retained. | 

And it is hereby further agreed that in case of failure or 
refusal by the party of the second part to perform the mail 
service herein provided for, then the sum hereinbefore stip¬ 
ulated shall become immediately due to the party pf the 
first part as liquidated damages and not as a penalty, and, 
in default of payment thereof, may be recovered in an action 
of debt. I 

To the faithful performance of each and every covenant 
and agreement hereinbefore mentioned the parties do bind 
themselves, and each of them and their heirs and personal 
representatives; and in testimony thereof do hereunto set 



26 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


their hands and seals, the day and year set opposite 

29 their respective names. 

Signed this 5th dav of April, 1927. 

BOEING AIRPLANE CO. INC., 

By-, 

President. 

Signed this 28th dav of March, 1927. 

EDWARD HUBBARD, 

Contractor. 

Signed this 5th day of April, 1927. 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
By W. E. BOEING, 

President, Sub-Contractor. 

30 Certificate of the Oath of Mail Contractor and 

Carriers. 

Required by Law. 

Take this Oath after signing the foregoing Sub-Contract: 

I, W. E. Boeing, as President of Boeing Air Transport, 
Inc., a corporation, making this affidavit for and in behalf 
of said corporation, being employed in the care, custody, 
and convevance of the mail as subcontractor on the route 
named in the foregoing subcontract, do solemnly swear that 
I will faithfully perform all the duties required of me, and 
abstain from anvthing forbidden bv the laws in relation to 
the establishment of postoffices and post roads within the 
United States; and that I will honestlv and trulv account 
for and pay over any moneys belonging to the said United 
States which may come into my possession or control. And 
I do further solemnly swear that I will support and defend 
the Constitution of the L T nited States against all enemies, 
foreign or domestic: So Help Me God. 

[seal.] . W. E. BOEING, 

As President of Said Corporation, 

Sub-Contractor. 

State of Washington, 

County of King, ss: 

Subscribed and sworn to before me a Notary Public 
within and for the County of King, State of Washington, 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


27 


this the 8th day of April, 1927. I also certify that the per¬ 
son above named is not a postmaster, assistant postmaster, 
clerk in a post office, rural carrier, or other postal em¬ 
ployee, nor a member of the immediate family of a pjostmas- 
ter, or assistant postmaster, and is to the best of my knowl¬ 
edge and belief, above the age of sixteen years; thiat he is 
competent and has the pecuniary ability to provide tlie serv¬ 
ice, and is of sufficient intelligence to properly handle and 
deposit the mail for boxes along the route. 

[seal.] HOLLISTER T. SPRAGUE), 

Notary Public, Residing at Seattle. 

Xote: —This oath may be administered by a postjmaster, 
or duly commissioned acting postmaster, but not, by a 
deputy, or assistant postmaster. 

The person who takes the oath should sign his name on 
the line immediately above the word “subcontractoj\” 

31 Exhibit “C.” | 

Route Certificate Air Mail Service. j 

i 

Route: Chicago, Illinois, by Certain Designated Points, 
to San Francisco, California, and Return. 

Carrier: Boeing Air Transport, Incorporated, of 
Washington. 

Whereas, Section 2 of the Act of Congress, approjved on 
the 29th day of April, 1930, entitled “ An Act to Amend the 
Air Mail Act of February 2, 1925, as Amended by the Acts 
of June 3, 1926, and May 17, 1928, Further to Encourage 
Commercial Aviation,” is as follows: 

I 

“The Postmaster General may, if in his judgment the 
public interest will be promoted thereby, upon the sur¬ 
render of anv air mail contract, issue in substitution 1 there- 
for a route certificate for a period of not exceeding ten years 
from the date service started under such contract to any 
contractor or subcontractor who has satisfactorily operated 
an air mail route for a period of not less than two years, 
which certificate shall provide that the holder thereof shall 
have the right, so long as he complies with all rules, regu¬ 
lations, and orders that may be issued by the Postipaster 
General for meeting the needs of the Postal Service and 
adjusting mail operations to the advances in the art of fly¬ 
ing and passenger transportation, to carry air mail over 




28 


I BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


the route set out in the certificate or any modification there¬ 
of at rates of compensation to be fixed from time to time, 
at least annually, by the Postmaster General, and he shall 
publish in his annual report his reasons for the continuance 
or the modification of anv rates: Provided , That such rates 
shall not exceed $1.25 per mile. Such certificate may be 
cancelled at any time for willful neglect on the part of the 
holder to carry out any rules, regulations, or orders made 
for his guidance, notice of such intended cancellation to 
be given in writing bv the Postmaster General and 
32 forty-five davs allowed the holder in which to show 
cause whv the certificate should not be cancelled.” 

•r 

And whereas, Boeing Airplane Company, Incorporated, 
of Seattle, Washington, a corporation duly organized and 
existing under the laws of the State of Washington, and 
Edward Hubbard, an individual and citizen of the United 
States, on the 1st dav of February, 1927, dulv entered into 
a contract with the United States to transport the air mail 
bv aircraft! on a route from Chicago, Illinois, bv certain 
designated points, to San Francisco, California, and on the 
29th day of April, 1927, Boeing Air Transport, Incorpo¬ 
rated, of Seattle, Washington, a corporation duly organ¬ 
ized and existing under the laws of the State of Washing¬ 
ton, hereinafter called the Carrier, became the subcontrac¬ 
tor on this route, the said contract presently being in full 
force and effect; 

And whereas, the said Carrier has satisfactorily operated 
said air route for a period of not less than two years, to- 
wit, from the first day of July, 1927, and is willing to sur¬ 
render the said air mail contract and accept in substitution 
therefor a route certificate as provided in Section 2 of 
the Act of Congress approved the 29th day of April, 1930; 

And whereas, in the judgment of the Postmaster General, 
the public interest will be promoted by the issuance to said 
Carrier of a route certificate in substitution for said con¬ 
tract; 

Now therefore, pursuant to the authority in me vested 
by the provisions of said Act, I hereby certify that said 
Boeing Air Transport, Incorporated, of Seattle, Washing¬ 
ton, shall have the right, so long as it complies with all 
rules, regulations, and orders that may be issued by the 
Postmaster General for meeting the needs of the Postal 
Service and adjusting mail operations to advances in the 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AX INDIVIDUAL. 


29 


art of flying and passenger transportation, to entry air 
mail over the route hereinafter set out or any modification 
thereof, at rates of compensation fixed herein, or to he fixed 
from time to time, at least annually, by thp Post- 
33 master General, provided that such rates shjall not 
exceed $1.25 per mile for a period ending ndt more 
than ten years from the date of beginning service under 
said contract, to-wit, on the Fifth day of April, 1926; sub¬ 
ject to the following conditions: 

i 

Terms and Conditions. 


1. The issuance of this certificate by the Postmastdr Gen¬ 
eral and its acceptance by the Carrier as hereinafter pro¬ 
vided shall be deemed a full mutual release of the IJnited 
States and the said Carrier from all the terms, conditions, 
and obligations of the air mail contract hereinbefore re¬ 
ferred to, dated the twenty-ninth dav of January,! 1927, 
from the date of the acceptance of this certificate, pxcept 
compensation due for services performed prior to the date 
hereof, and upon the acceptance thereof the said Carrier 
shall surrender the said contract to the United Stales. 

2. The route over which the Carrier shall have thO right 
to carry air mail shall be from Chicago, Illinois, by certain 
designated points, to San Francisco, California, and re¬ 
turn, including any extension or other modification of said 
route that may be made as hereinafter provided. 

3. Upon 60 days notice to the Carrier, the Postmaster 
General from time to time may modify said route by an 
extension or extensions thereof, including lateral extensions 
or consolidations, and prescribe the schedule therefbr in¬ 
cluding the stops thereon, and determine the mileage upon 
which the compensation of the Carrier is to be baspd. 

4. For the purposes of this certificate the distance be¬ 
tween the terminal points of the route hereinbefore pre¬ 
scribed shall be deemed to be—2025—miles. 

5. The aircraft employed by the Carrier in the service 
authorized hereby shall be manufactured in the United 
States. They shall be of modern design, airworthy; and 

suitable for the service prescribed; the design and 
34 capacity of such aircraft, and the location, size and 
construction of the mail compartments therein, shall 
be subject to the approval of the Postmaster General. 



30 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 

The following service may be prescribed by the Postmas¬ 
ter General: 

A. —Night Mail Service, 

B. —Night .Mail and Passenger Service, 

C. —Dav Mail Service, 

D. —Dav Mail and Passenger Service. 


G. Until and including the 31st day of December, 1930, 
or until otherwise directed by the Postmaster General, the 
Carrier shall provide the following service over said route: 


1. One flight by a plane having not less than 125 cubic 
feet of space for 2000 pounds of air mail, and accommoda¬ 
tions for not less than eight passengers, departing from 
Chicago, 111., at 8 a. m., daily except Monday, to be classi¬ 
fied as Class D service, and payment made therefor at 
the rate of one dollar and eighteen and one-half cents 
($1.1SM>) per mile, between Chicago, Ill., and Salt Lake 
City, Utah, until otherwise ordered. 

2. One flight by a plane having from 80 to 100 cubic feet 
of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, departing from Chi¬ 
cago, Ill., at 8 p. m., daily, to be classified as Class A service, 
and payment made therefor at the rate of one dollar and 
eighteen cents ($1.18) per mile, between Chicago, Ill., and 
Salt Lake City, Utah, until otherwise ordered. 

3. One flight by a plane having from 80 to 100 cubic 
feet of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, departing from 
Salt Lake City, Utah, eastbound, at 4 p. m., daily except 
Monday, to be classified as Class C service, and payment 
made therefor at the rate of one dollar and three cents 


($1.03) per mile, between Salt Lake City, Utah, and Chi¬ 
cago, Ill., until otherwise ordered. 

4. One flight by a plane having not less than 125 cubic 
feet of space for 2000 pounds of air mail, and accommoda¬ 
tions for not less than eight passengers, departing from 
Salt Lake City, Utah, eastbound, at 4 a. m., daily, to be 
classified as Class B service, and payment made therefor 
at the rate of one dollar and eighteen and one-half cents 
($1.18M>) per mile for day flying and one dollar and twenty- 
five cents ($1.25) per mile for night flying, between Salt 
Lake City, Utah, and Chicago, Ill., until otherwise ordered. 

5. One flight by a plane having from 80 to 100 cubic feet 
of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, and accommodations 
for not less than ten passengers, departing from Salt Lake 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


I 


31 


City, Utah, westbound, at 9 p. m., daily except Monday, to 
be classified as Class B service, and payment made therefor 
at the rate of one dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25) per 
mile for night flying and one dollar and sixteen cents ($1.16) 
per mile for day flying between Salt Lake City^ Utah, 
35 and San Francisco, Calif., until otherwise ordered. 

6. One flight by a plane having not less than 62.5 
cubic feet of space for 1000 pounds of air mail, departing 
from Salt Lake City, Utah, westbound, at 9 a. m., daily, 
to be classified as Class C service, and payment madejthere- 
for at the rate of ninety-five and one-half cents (95^) per 
mile, between Salt Lake City, Utah, and San Fraficisco, 
Calif, until otherwise ordered. 

7. One flight by a plane having not less than 62.5 cubic 


feet of space for 1000 pounds of air mail, departing from 
San Francisco, Calif., at 8 a. m., daily except Mondavj to be 
classified as Class C service, and payment made therefor 
at the rate of ninety-five and one-half cents ($0.95Vi) P er 


mile, between San Francisco, Calif., and Salt Lake City, 
Utah, until otherwise ordered. 

7 # l 

8. One flight by a plane having from 80 to 100 cubic feet 
of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, and accommodations 
for not less than ten passengers, departing from San [Fran¬ 
cisco, Calif., at 8 p. m., daily, to be classified as Clgss B 
service, and payment made therefor at the rate of one 
dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25) per mile for night fly¬ 
ing and one dollar and sixteen cents ($1.16) per mue for 
day flying, between San Francisco, Calif., and Salt j Lake 
City, Utah, until otherwise ordered. 

7. Upon 60 days notice to the Carrier, the Postipaster 
General may increase, diminish, or modify the service kbove 
prescribed, and make such adjustments in the compensa¬ 
tion of the Carrier as he may deem proper. 

8. The Carrier shall transport the mails of the Ignited 
States offered for carriage over the route hereinbefore set 
out with due celerity, in a safe and secure manner, free 
from wet or other injury, receiving and delivering the jsame 
at fields and points therein designated on schedules] pre¬ 
scribed by the Postmaster General. 

9. Payments shall be made to the Carrier monthly upon 
evidence that the service authorized hereby has been' well 
and faithfully performed in accordance with the provisions 
hereof. 





32 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., <£C., VS. 


10. The Carrier shall keep and maintain an accurate sys¬ 
tem of accounting in accordance with regulations prescribed 
by the Postmaster General. These accounts shall include 
a record of all obligations, investments, expenditures, re¬ 
ceipts and earnings from any source whatsoever, and shall 
be subject at all reasonable times to inspection and audit 

by the Post Office Department. The Carrier shall 
36 furnish to the Postmaster General such information 

regarding its accounts and operations as he may from 
time to time require. 

11. The Carrier shall not directly, or indirectly, promote 
the use of the air mail over the route hereinbefore set out, 
or any other air mail route, except in accordance with regu¬ 
lations prescribed by the Postmaster General. 

12. This certificate is issued upon the express conditions 
that the said Carrier will hold itself subject to all the condi¬ 
tions imposed by the several Acts of Congress relating to 
the Air Mail Service and to all the provisions of the law 
relating to Post Offices and the Postal Service generallv in 
so far as they are applicable to the Air Mail Service; that 
no Member of or Delegate to Congress shall be admitted 
to any share or part of the benefits accruing to it hereunder; 
and that it has not employed a third person to solicit or 
obtain the same, or to cause or procure the same to be 
obtained upon compensation in any way contingent, in whole 
or in part, upon such procurement; and that it has not paid, 
or promised or agreed to pay, to any third person, in con¬ 
sideration of such procurement, or in compensation for 
service in connection therewith, any brokerage, commission, 
or percentage, upon the amount receivable by it thereunder, 
and that it has not in estimating the price at which it under¬ 
takes hereunder to carry the mail, included anv sum bv 
reason of any such brokerage, commission, or percentage, 
and that all money payable to it hereunder is free from 
obligation to any person for services rendered, or supposed 
to have been rendered, in the procurement of this certifi¬ 
cate. And it is understood that a breach of this condition 
shall constitute adequate cause for the cancellation of this 
certificate by the Postmaster General, and that the United 
States niav retain to its own use from anv sums due or to 
become due thereunder an amount equal to any brokerage, 
commission, or percentage so paid or agreed to be 
paid. 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


33 




i 

37 13. The said Carrier shall be responsible for the 
persons to whom it commits the custody ahd trans¬ 
portation of the mails, and the observance of tlie law by 
such persons and the faithful performance of tie duties 
required by it of them; and shall not commit th<|? custody 
or transportation of the mails to any person undcjr sixteen 
years of age, nor to any person under a sentence cif impris¬ 
onment at hard labor imposed by a court having criminal 
jurisdiction, nor to any person not authorized by law to be 
concerned in contracts for carrying the mail. 

14. The said Carrier shall be answerable in dajmages to 
the United States for any breach by it, or by itjs officers 
or agents, of the terms and conditions set out herein; and 
for such a breach, or for inferior service, or fol* loss of 
or damage to the mail through its fault or that of its offi¬ 
cers or agents, the Postmaster General may mgke such 
deductions from the pay of the said Carrier as he may deem 
proper. 

15. The Carrier shall be required to provide Necessary 
work-room space in its buildings on the field, or fields, to 
permit proper handling and distribution of inails|by Post 
Office Department employees. 

16. This certificate may be cancelled by the Postmaster 
General at any time for willful neglect on the part of the 
holder to carry out any rules, regulations, or orders made 
for its guidance, notice of such intended cancellation to be 
given in writing by the Postmaster General and fortv-five 
davs allowed the holder in which to show cause whv the 
certificate should not be cancelled. 

17. Bv agreement of the Postmaster General and the 
Carrier, the life of this certificate may be curtailed, said 
certificate may be cancelled, or any other modification may 
be made herein not inconsistent with law. 

IS. The Postmaster General shall have the right at any 
time during the period of service authorize^ hereby 

38 to require the Carrier to furnish surety other than 
that for which provision is hereafter madej and in 

his discretion to increase or reduce the amount of the bond 
that has been furnished by the Carrier. 

19. The delivery to and acceptance and approval by the 
Postmaster General of a bond in the sum of $251,000.00 con¬ 
ditioned upon the faithful and efficient performance in ac¬ 
cordance with the terms and conditions hereinbeforel set out, 

3—6287a 


I 



34 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


of the service intended to be authorized by this certificate, 
duly execute^ by a surety acceptable to the Postmaster 
General; and the acceptance of this certificate upon the said 
terms and conditions, evidenced by the counter-signature 
of the said Carrier, shall be conditions precedent to the 
vesting of anv right in the said Carrier bv virtue hereof. 


Witness mv hand and seal this (21st) dav of (October) 
1930. 


WALTER F. BROWX, 

Postmaster General. 


Witness to signature of the Postmaster General: 
ALICE MUMMENHOFF. 


Accepted upon the terms and conditions above set out 
this 29th day of October, 1930. 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
Bv JAMES P. MURRAY. 

39 Amendment. 


Under authority of the Act of April 29, 1930, 39 U. S. C. 
4G5c. Supp. V., and in accordance with the terms contained 
in the route certificate issued under date of October 21, 
1930, to Boeing Air Transport, Incorporated, of Seattle, 
Washington, upon surrender by it of the contract with the 
United States to transport air mail by aircraft on a route 
from Chicago, Illinois, by certain designated points, to 
San Francisco, California, and return,—Paragraph 17 of 
the air mail route certificate is herebv amended so as to read 
as follows: 

“17. Bv agreement of the Postmaster General and the 
Carrier the life of this certificate may be curtailed, said cer¬ 
tificate may be cancelled, or anv other modification therein 
be made, including extensions in the life thereof, not incon¬ 
sistent with law.” 


Witness mv hand and seal this 24th dav of February, 

* • —7 

1933. 


WALTER F. BROWN, 

Postmaster General. 


Witness to the signature of the Postmaster General: 
ALICE MUMMENHOFF. 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AX INDIVIDUAL. 


35 


Accepted upon the terms and conditions above! set out 
this 6th dav of March, 1933. 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, ilNC., 
By P. G. JOHNSON, j 

Pres. 


40 Exhibit “D.” 

Subcontract for Mail Service. 

Route No. A. M. 30. 

This article of contract, made the 10th day of February 
nineteen hundred and thirty-three, between Robertsjon Air¬ 
craft Corporation, a Missouri corporation, and American 
Airways, Inc., a Delaware corporation, contractor \yith the 
United States, party (or parties) of the first part, and Boe¬ 
ing Air Transport, Inc., a Washington corporation |of City 
of Seattle, County of King and State of Washington, sub¬ 
contractor, party (or parties) of the second part, and- 

of-his sureties; 

Witnesseth, that whereas the said party (or parties) of 
the first part has executed a contract with the United States 
(acting in this behalf by the Postmaster General), Record¬ 
ing to law, for transporting the mail on a part of Route 
No. A. M. 30 from Kansas City, State of Missouri, to 
Omaha, State of Nebraska, and back, seven times R week, 
from February 10, 1933 to termination of route certificate, 
19— on the schedule prescribed by the Post Office depart¬ 
ment, and having obtained conditional permission fo sub¬ 
let the same, has made the following agreement with the 
said party (or parties) of the second part, to wit: ( 

The said party (or parties) of the second part, a!nd his 
sureties aforesaid, do jointly and severally undertake, cove¬ 
nant, and agree, and do find themselves and each of them 
to and with the said party (or parties) of the first part in 
the sum of $15,000.00 Fifteen thousand and no/lOOths dol¬ 
lars, to transport the United States Mail on the said Route 
No. A. M. 30 from Kansas City, Missouri, by St. Joseph, 
Missouri, to Omaha, Nebraska and back (including tjhe de¬ 
positing and collecting of mail along the route, as provided 
by the advertisement), seven times a week, from the 10th 
day of February, 1933 to termination of route ctf. 19— 

inclusive, on such schedule as the Postmaster General mav 
7 • • - 
direct, and in full compliance with the postal laws and regu- 



36 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., <£C., VS. 


lations, and subject to all the requirements of the said party 
of the first part under the said contract with the United 
States, at the certificate rate of pay dollars per annum. 

And it is hereby further agreed that liability for all fines 

•» O v 

and deductions imposed upon the party of the first part 
by the Postipaster General, for failures and delinquencies 
in the performance of service under -his contract, shall be 
assumed and borne by the party of the second part, and, if 
necessaiy, the Comptroller General may enforce this agree¬ 
ment by proper deductions from any compensation due the 
party of the second part for service performed under this 
subcontract. 

And it is hereby further agreed that for any additional 
service required by the Postmaster General, and not here¬ 
inbefore expressly stipulated, the party of the second part 
shall be allowed not to exceed a pro rata increase of com¬ 
pensation; and in case of decrease, curtailment, or discon¬ 
tinuance of service, as full indemnity, a pro rata of the one 
month’s extra pay allowed by the United States to the 
party of the first part, and unless previously herein stipu¬ 
lated, not to exceed a pro rata compensation for the service 
retained. 

41 And it is hereby further agreed that in case of 
failure or refusal by the party of the second part 
to perform the mail service herein provided for, then the 
sum hereinbefore stipulated shall become immediately due 
to the party of the first part as liquidated damages and not 
as a penalty, and, in default of payment thereof, may be 
recovered in an action of debt. 

To the faithful performance of each and every covenant 
and agreement hereinbefore mentioned the parties do bind 
themselves, and each of them and their heirs and personal 
representatives, and in testimony thereof do hereunto set 
their hands and seals, the day and year set opposite their 
respective names. 

Signed this 10th day of February, 1933. 

ROBERTSON AIRCRAFT 
CORPORATION, [seal.] 
Contractor, 

By RICHARD F. HOYT, 

President. 


, Witness. 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


37 


Signed this 10th dav of February, 1933. 

AMERICAN AIRWAYS, INC., [seal.] 
By LESTER D. SEYMOUR, 

Subcontractor. 

I 

Signed this 10th dav of February, 1933. 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., [$eal.] 
By C. E. BRINK, j 

Subcontractor. 

i 

42 Certificate of the Oath of Mail Contractors apd 

Carriers. j 

Required by Law. 

Take this Oath after signing the foregoing Subcontract: 

/, We, Boeing Air Transport, Inc., being employe^ in the 
care, custody, and conveyance of the mail as subcontractor 
on the route named in the foregoing subcontract, do sol¬ 
emnly swear that I will faithfully perform all the j duties 
required of me, and abstain from everything forbidden by 
the laws in relation to the establishment of post offides and 
post roads within the United States; and that I will honestly 
and truly account for and pay over any moneys belpnging 
to the said United States which may come into my posses¬ 
sion or control. And I do further solemnly swear that I 
will support and defend the Constitution of the ^mited 
States against all enemies, foreign or domestic: Sb help 
me God. 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 

Subcontractor. 

By C. E. BRINK. 

State of Illinois, 

County of Cook, ss: 

Subscribed and sworn to before me Arthur C. Ljieder, 
Postmaster, State of Illinois, this the 13tli day of February, 
1933. I also certify that the person above named is not a 
postmaster, assistant postmaster, clerk in a post office, 
rural carrier, or other postal employee, nor a member of 
the immediate family of a postmaster or assistant postmas¬ 
ter, and is to the best of my knowledge and belief, above the 
age of sixteen years; that he is competent and has the 
pecuniary ability to provide the service, and is of sufficient 



38 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., <fcC., VS. 


intelligence to properly handle and deposit the mail in boxes 
along the route. 

ARTHUR C. LUEDER. 

Note.— This oath may be administered by a postmaster, 
or duly commissioned acting postmaster, but not by a dep¬ 
uty, or assistant postmaster. The person who takes the 
oath should sign his name on the line immediately above 
the word “subcontractor.” 

43 Exhibit “E”. 

Sub-Lease for Air Mail Service. 

Route A. M. 30. 

(Part Between Kansas City, Mo. and Omaha, Nebr.) 

This agreement, made this 30th day of January, 1933 
by and between Robertson Aircraft Corporation, a corpo¬ 
ration organized and existing under the laws of the state 
of Missouri, hereinafter referred to as “Robertson”, party 
of the first part, and American Airways, Inc., a corpora¬ 
tion organized and existing under the laws of the state of 
Delaware, hereinafter referred to as the “American Com¬ 
pany”, party of the second part, and Boeing Air Trans¬ 
port, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the 
laws of the state of Washington, of the city of Seattle, 
state of Washington, hereinafter referred to as “Boeing”, 
party of the third part. 

Whereas, on the 29th day of April, 1931 Route Certif¬ 
icate for air mail service was issued bv the Postmaster 

* 

General of the United States, unto Robertson, for route— 
St. Louis, Missouri via Kansas City and St. Joseph, Mis¬ 
souri to Omaha, Nebraska, and return; and 

Whereas, on November 7, 1930 Route Certificate for air 
mail service was issued by the Postmaster General of the 
United States, unto Interstate Airlines, Inc., for route— 
Chicago, Illinois via certain designated points to Atlanta, 
Georgia and return; and 

Whereas, on May 13, 1931 said two route certificates, 
known respectively as A. M. 28 and A. M. 30, were consoli¬ 
dated into Route A. M. 30, Omaha to Atlanta, with Robert¬ 
son as the carrier; and 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. ! 39 

Whereas, on May 13, 1931 Robertson was authorized to 
sublet the service upon said consolidated route, thereafter 
known as A. M. 30, unto the American Company; and 

Whereas, said route A. M. 30 has been duly sublet to 
the American Company; and 

Whereas the parties hereto have agreed subject to the 
approval of the Postmaster General of the Unitdd States 
that Robertson and the American Company shall Sublet to 
Boeing the right to conduct and carry on the transporta¬ 
tion of said air mail on that part of route A. M. 30 from 
Kansas City, state of Missouri, to Omaha,(state of 
44 Nebraska from February 10, 1933 to the epd of the 
term of said Route Certificate A. M. 30 or any ex¬ 
tension thereof on the schedules prescribed by the Post 
Office Department, subject, however, to the termjs, condi¬ 
tions, provisions and agreements hereinafter more par- 

ticularlv set forth. 

* 

Now therefore this agreement witnesseth: that Robert¬ 
son and the American Company for and in consideration 
of the sum of One Dollar ($1.00) and other valuable con¬ 
siderations to them in hand paid by Boeing, thq receipt 
whereof is hereby acknowledged, and in further consider¬ 
ation of the undertakings and agreements hereinafter set 
forth and subject to the approval of this agreement by the 
Postmaster General as aforesaid, do herebv sublet to Boe- 
ing the right to conduct and carry on the air mpl oper¬ 
ations between Kansas City, Missouri and Om^ha, Ne¬ 
braska provided to be conducted and carried op by the 
American Company under the terms of that parti of said 
route certificate hereinabove referred to and it shall be the 
right of Boeing under this agreement of subletting and in 
connection with the carriage of said air mail thejreunder 
to have, enjoy and exercise the emoluments, rights and 
privileges in said route certificate provided to be pad, en¬ 
joyed and exercised by Robertson and the American Com¬ 
pany between said cities of Kansas City, Missouri and 
Omaha, Nebraska, subject, however, to the faithful per¬ 
formance by Boeing of all of the terms and conditions set 
forth in said contract and in this agreement on the part of 
Boeing to be kept and performed and the parties hereto 
further stipulate, covenant and agree, as follows: 

1. That Robertson and the American Company are not 
guarantors in relation to the obligation of said rope cer- 



40 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., <fcC., VS. 


tificate undertaken to be kept and performed on behalf of 
the United States by said Postmaster General but that the 
intent of this agreement in relation to the subletting of 
that portion of said route certificate between Kansas City, 
Missouri and Omaha, Nebraska to Boeing is that Robert¬ 
son and the American Company authorize and em- 
45 powCr Boeing, subject to the said approval of the 
Postmaster General to conduct the operations pro¬ 
vided for in that portion of the route certificate in the 
manner provided by the provisions thereof and by the 
rules and regulations of the Post Office Department and by 
the laws of the United States, or of any states of the United 
States having lawful jurisdiction over said route certificate 
or the operations conducted thereunder and to have and 
enjoy the rights and privileges of Robertson and the Amer¬ 
ican Company under the provisions of said route certificate 
between the aforesaid cities but without any representa¬ 
tion, obligation or liability on the part of Robertson or of 
the American Company as to the manner in which the same 
may or shall be interpreted or enforced by or under the 
authority of the Postmaster General or the Comptroller 
General of the United States, or as to the decisions, rules 
and regulations of any other department of the Federal 
Government or as to the judgments, decrees or orders of 
any court of competent jurisdiction under any statute of 
the Federal Government or of any state of the United 
States, or of any rule or regulations promulgated under or 
pursuant to any such statute. 

2. Boeing as sub-lessee of the American Company hereby 
accepts this agreement and all of its conditions and pro¬ 
visions and agrees to furnish the air mail service as afore¬ 
said between the cities of Kansas City, Missouri and 
Omaha, Nebraska in accordance with the provisions of that 
part of said route certificate thereunto appertaining and 
also agrees to furnish any form of bond or undertaking 
which may by the Postmaster General aforesaid be re¬ 
quired of it as sub-lessee, and further agrees that this 
agreement shall not become effective nor shall any oper¬ 
ations under its provisions be carried on by Boeing unless 
and until the said Boeing as principal and with a company 
as surety satisfactory to the American Company, has made, 
executed and delivered to the American Company, and in 
a form satisfactory to it, a bond of indemnity running for 
a period co-extensive with the period of said route cer- 



JAMES A. FAELEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


41 


tificate in the sum of Fifteen Thousand pollars 

46 ($15,000) conditioned upon the faithful perform¬ 
ance by Boeing of all obligations assumed herein as 

sub-lessee and holding the other parties hereto harmless 
from any and all loss, damage, penalties or liability prising 
or growing out of or in connection with the said subletting 
of said portion of said route certificate, or from any breach 
bv Boeing of the obligations undertaken bv it in accdrdance 
with this agreement. 

3. The parties hereto agree that this agreement pf sub¬ 
letting covers only that portion of Route A. M. 30 between 
the cities of Kansas City, Missouri and Omaha, Nebraska 
and shall not cover or include anv extension which may here- 
after be made by or with the authority of the Postmaster 
General of or to the said route, either longitudinally! or lat¬ 
erally, or in any other way; but it is not intended by the 
foregoing to limit the right of Boeing, either by extension 
or otherwise, to extend its operation over a route or routes 
which are not an extension or extensions, either longi¬ 
tudinally or laterally, of the route mentioned in this! agree¬ 
ment of sub-leasing or covered by the route certificate upon 
which this agreement is based. 

4. Boeing further agrees that if it, the said Boeing, 
shall be adjudged a bankrupt or insolvent, or if a receiver 
shall be appointed for Boeing by any court of competent 
jurisdiction, the American Company shall have the abso¬ 
lute right to terminate this agreement and take over and 
carry on said operations without notice and that ujjon the 
happening of any of such events, all rights hereupder of 
the said Boeing shall cease and terminate, but th}s pro¬ 
vision shall not be construed to affect any liability !on the 
part of Boeing to Robertson or the American Cofnpanv 
arising out of any default or violation on its part pf any 
of the provisions either of this agreement or of said route 
certificate. 

5. Boeing agrees that liability for all fines and deduc¬ 

tions imposed upon Robertson or the Anierican 

47 Company by the Postmaster General for failures 
and delinquencies on the part of Boeing in i :s per¬ 
formance of the service required under this agreement 
shall be assumed and borne by Boeing and that, if neces¬ 
sary, the Comptroller General may enforce this agreement 
by proper deductions from any compensation due tb Boe¬ 
ing for service performed under this sub-contract. It is 



42 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., <fcC., VS. 


further stipulated and agreed that should the Post Office 
Department for any reason cancel or terminate the said 
route certificate such cancellation or termination shall auto¬ 
matically effect the cancellation of this agreement of sub¬ 
letting on the same date fixed by the Post Office Depart¬ 
ment for the taking effect of such cancellation or termina¬ 
tion, but this provision shall not affect the liability of Boe¬ 
ing to Robertson and the American Company arising or 
growing out of any default or act on its part in violation 
of any of the provisions or covenants contained in this 
agreement of subletting or in said route certificate. 

6. It is further agreed between the parties hereto that 
upon forty-five (45) days notice in writing to Boeing the 
American Company may cancel and terminate this agree¬ 
ment of subletting in the event the American Company or 
Robertson shall receive written notice from or bv the 

m/ 

authority of the Postmaster General that Boeing has not 
fulfilled or is not fulfilling or performing its obligations 
as subcontractor under the provisions of this agreement 
and under said route certificate in so far as same pertains 
to service between the cities of Kansas City, Missouri and 
Omaha, Nebraska unless within such period of forty-five 
(45) days the Postmaster General shall notify the Amer¬ 
ican Company that Boeing has fulfilled and is then fulfill¬ 
ing its obligations hereunder and under said route cer¬ 
tificate and that its service and operations thereunder have 
become and are satisfactory. 

7. Boeing further agrees that in the event this contract 
of subletting shall be terminated or cancelled that Boeing 

and its associated or affiliated companies will not 
48 oppose any application of the American Company 
for state or federal authority for the carriage of 
express, passengers, mail and other cargo over said route, 
and will consent and agree that certificates or licenses may 
be issued by the proper state or federal authorities author¬ 
izing the American Company in conjunction with Boeing 
to operate an air transport line over said route between 
the said cities of Kansas City, Missouri and Omaha, 
Nebraska. 

8. The term of this agreement shall be co-extensive with 
the term of said route certificate A. M. 30 or anv exten- 
sions thereof. 

9. Any notice to be served upon Robertson or the Amer¬ 
ican Company shall be deemed to be properly served when 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


43 


either left or mailed to said corporation at Room ^321, 105 
West Adams Street, Chicago, Illinois and as to Boeing 
when mailed or left with said corporation at LaSalle 
Wacker Building, 221 North LaSalle Street, Chicago, 
Illinois. 

■* 

In witness whereof the parties hereto have executed this 
agreement and caused their respective corporate peals to 
be affixed hereto the day and year first above written. 

AMERICAN AIRWAYS, INC., 

By LESTER D. SEYMORE, 

President. 

Attest: 

R. S. PRINTT, j 

Secretary. 

ROBERTSON AIRCRAFT CORPO¬ 
RATION, 

By RICHARD F. HOYT, 

President. 

Attest * 

HAROLD KONDOLZ, 

Secretary. 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, I^C., 

Bv C. E. BRINK, 

Treasurer. 

Attest: j 

WM. A. PATTERSON, 

Asst. Secretary. 

■ 

49 Duplicate. 

Know all men by these presents, that we, Boeipg Air 
Transport, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under 
the laws of the State of Washington, as Principal, and 
United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company, a i corpo¬ 
ration organized and existing under the laws of the State 
of Maryland, as Surety, are held and firmly bound unto 
American Airways, Inc., a corporation organized and ex¬ 
isting under the laws of the State of Delaware, as Obligee, 
in the penal sum of Fifteen Thousand ($15,000.00) Dollars, 
lawful money of the United States, for the payment of 
which sum, well and truly to be made, we do heretjv bind 
ourselves, our corporate successors and assigns, jointly 
and severally, firmly by these presents. 




44 BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 

Signed, sealed and dated this 8th day of February, A. D. 
1933. 

Whereas, on the 29th day of April, 1931 Route Certificate 
for air mail service was issued bv the Postmaster General 
of the United States, unto Robertson Aircraft Corporation, 
for route—St. Louis, Missouri via Kansas City and St. 
Joseph, Missouri to Omaha, Nebraska, and return; and 
Whereas, on November 7, 1930 Route Certificate for air 
mail service was issued bv the Postmaster General of the 
United States, unto Interstate Airlines, Inc., for route— 
Chicago, Illinois via certain designated points to Atlanta, 
Georgia and return; and 

WTiereas, on May 13, 1931 said two route certificates, 
known respectively as A.M. 28 and A.M. 30, were consoli¬ 
dated into Route A.M. 30, Omaha to Atlanta, with Robert¬ 
son Aircraft Corporation as the carrier; and 
Whereas, on May 13, 1931 Robertson Aircraft Corpora¬ 
tion was authorized to sublet the service upon said con¬ 
solidated route, thereafter known as A.M. 30, unto the 
American Airways, Inc.; and 
Whereas, said route A.M. 30 has been duly sublet to the 
American Airways, Inc.; and 

Whereas, the aforesaid Robertson Aircraft Corporation 
and the American Airways, Inc., have, by an agreement 
dated the 30th day of January, A. D. 1933, sublet to the 
said Boeing Air Transport, Inc. the right to conduct and 
carry on transportation of said air mail on that part of 
Route A.M. 30 from Kansas City, State of Missouri, to 
Omaha, State of Nebraska, from February 10th, 1933 to 
the end of the term of said route certificate A.M. 30 or anv 
extension thereof, on the schedules prescribed by the Post- 
office Department, all as more specifically in said agreement 
described, which is by reference made a part hereof the 
same as though written out herein. 

Now, therefore, the condition of this obligation is such, 
that, if the said Boeing Air Transport, Inc. shall faithfully 
perform and complete all and every the terms, conditions 
and obligations by it to be performed in the aforesaid agree¬ 
ment dated the 30th day of January, A. D. 1933, and save 
and hold harmless the said American Airwavs, Inc. from 
any and all loss, damage, penalties or liabilities arising 
or growing out of or in connection with the said sub-letting 
of said portion of said route certificate, caused by any 
breach on the part of the Boeing Air Transport, Inc. of the 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


45 


terms, conditions or obligations by it to be performed, then 
this obligation shall be null and void; otherwise to be and 
remain in full force and effect. 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, I^C., 

Bv C. E. BRINK. J 

UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND 
GUARANTY CO., 

By W. 0. SCHILLING, 

Attorney-in-Fact. 

50 State of Illinois, 

County of Cook, ss: 

I, Blanche Bernstein, a Notary Public in and for the 
County and State aforesaid, do hereby certify that! W. 0. 
Schilling Attorneys-in-fact of the United States Fidelity 
and Guaranty Company, who are personally knowi^ to me 
to be the same persons whose names are subscribed in the 
foregoing instrument, as such Attorneys-in-fact, appeared 
before me this day in person and acknowledged that they 
signed, sealed and delivered the said instrument of writ¬ 
ing as their free and voluntary act, and as the frge and 
voluntarv act of the said United States Fidelitv and Guar- 

V •* 

antv Company for the uses and purposes therein set^ forth, 
and caused the corporate seal of the said Company to be 
thereto attached. 

Given under my hand and Notarial seal this 8th day of 
February A. D. 1933. 

BLANCHE BERNSTEIN, 

Notary Public. 

51 Certified Copy. 

I 

General Power of Attorney. 

- 

48992. j 

Know all men by these presents : 

That the United States Z)i/elity and Guaranty Conjipany, 
a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the 
State of Maryland, and having it- principal office ^t the 
City of Baltimore, in the State of Maryland, does hereby 
constitute and appoint W. 0. Schilling, M. P. Fisher, Edw. 
J. Ptacek and L. W. Burger, of the City of Chicago,' State 
of Illinois its true and lawful attorneys for the following 
purposes, to wit: 

To sign its name as surety to, and to execute, segl and 
acknowledge any and all bonds, and to respectively do 




46 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


and perform any and all acts and things set forth in the 
resolution of the Board of Directors of the said United 
States Fidelity and Guaranty Company, a certified copy of 
which is hereto annexed and made a part of this Power of 
Attorney; and the said United States Fidelity and Guaranty 
Company, thorugh us, its Board of Directors, hereby rati¬ 
fies and confirms all and whatsoever any one of the said 
W. 0. Schilling and the said M. P. Fisher and the said 
Edw. J. Ptacek and the said L. W. Burger mav lawfully 
do in the premises by virtue of these presents. 

In witness whereof, the said United States Fidelity and 
Guaranty Company has caused this instrument to be sealed 
with its corporate seal, duly attested by the signatures of 
its Vice-President and Assistant Secretary, this 1st dav 
of July, A. D. 1932. 

[seal.] UNITED STATES FIDELITY AND 

GUARANTY COMPANY, 

(Signed) ByC. J. FITZPATRICK, 

Vice-President, 

(Signed) RODOLPHE H. MOTTU, 

Assistant Secretary . 

State of Maryland, 

Baltimore City , s$: 

On this 1st day of July, A. D. 1932, before me personally 
came C. J. Fitzpatrick, Vice President of the United States 
Fidelity and Guaranty Company, and Rodolphe H. Mottu, 
Assistant Secretary of said Company, with both of whom 
I am personally acquainted, who being by me severally 
dulv sworn, said that thev resided in the Citv of Baltimore, 
Maryland; that they, the said C. J. Fitzpatrick and Ro¬ 
dolphe H. Mottu were respectively the Vice-President and 

Assistant Secretary of the said United States Fidelity 

• % 

and Guaranty Company, the corporation described in and 
which executed the foregoing Power of Attorney; that 
they each knew the seal of said corporation; that the seal 
affixed to said Power of Attorney was such corporate seal; 
that it was so affixed by order of the Board of Directors of 
said corporation, and that they signed their names thereto 
bv like order as Vice-President and Assistant Secretary, 
respectively, of the Company. 

Mv commission expires the first Monday in Mav, A. D. 
1933. 

[seal.] !(Signed) 


R. K. BARTON, 

Notary Public. 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AX INDIVIDUAL. 


47 


52 State of Maryland, 

Baltimore City, ss: 

I, Stephen C. Little, Clerk of Superior Court of Balti¬ 
more City, which Court is a Court of Record, anc[ has a 
seal, do hereby certify that R. K. Barton, Esquire, before 
whom the annexed affidavits were made, and who has 
thereto subscribed his name, was at the time of so doing a 
Notary Public of the State of Maryland, in and for the City 
of Baltimore, duly commissioned and sworn and authorized 
by law to administer oaths and take acknowledgments, or 
proof of deeds to be recorded therein. I further certify 
that I am acquainted with the handwriting of the said 
Notary, and verily believe the signature to be his genuine 
signature. 

In testimony whereof, I hereto set mv hand and affix the 
seal of the Superior Court of Baltimore City, th^ same 
being a Court of Record, this 1st dav of July, A. D. 1932. 
[seal.] (Signed) STEPHEN C. LITTLE] 

Clerk of the Superior Coyrt 

of Baltimore City. 


53 Exhibit “F.” 

United Air Lines, Inc. 


Management Contract Between United Air Lines, like, and 
Boeing Air Transport, Inc., National Air Transport, 
Inc., Pacific Air Transport, Varney Air Lines, Inc. 

Agreement, this 1st day of July, 1931, between United 
Air Lines, Inc., a corporation of the State of Delaware 
(hereinafter referred to as “Management Corporation’’), 
party of the first part, and Boeing Air Transport, Inc., 
National Air Transport, Inc., Pacific Air Transport and 
Varney Air Lines, Inc., and such other corporations as 
may, from time to time, become parties to this Agreement 
in the manner hereinafter provided (hereinafter referred 
to as “Operating Companies”), parties of the second part. 

Whereas, the Operating Companies are each controlled 
through stock ownership by the United Aircraft & trans¬ 
port Corporation, a corporation of the State of Delaware, 
and are engaged in operating air transport lines, nbne of 
which competes with any of the others and which together 
constitute a single connected system, the various pdrtions 



48 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


of which, however, have heretofore been operated inde¬ 
pendently of each other; and 

Whereas, the Operating Companies deem it desirable 
that their respective policies of management, operation and 
accounting be unified with a view to obtaining greater ef¬ 
ficiency in operations; and 

Whereas, the Operating Companies also desire to estab¬ 
lish a common agency for the purchase of equipment and 
supplies and the placing of insurance and advertising with 
a view to securing the economies which may be expected 
to be realized therefrom; 

Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises and of 
the mutual Ipromises herein contained, the parties hereto 
hereby agree, as follows: 

I. The Management Corporation shall manage the op¬ 
erations of the respective Operating Companies, securing 
for each of them such local managers, superintendents, en¬ 
gineers, auditors and other employees as may, in the judg¬ 
ment of the Management Corporation, be necessary or de¬ 
sirable. The persons so secured by the Management Cor¬ 
poration shall be in the employ of, and be paid by, the 
respective Operating Companies. 

II. The Management Corporation shall keep itself fa¬ 
miliar with the business of the respective Operating Com¬ 
panies and the local conditions applying thereto, and shall 
advise and direct the local managers and department and 
division heads of the respective Operating Companies. 

III. The Management Corporation shall, from time to 
time, determine upon and enforce unified policies of man¬ 
agement, operation and accounting for the several Oper¬ 
ating Companies, including, among other things, ad- 

54 justment of flying schedules, rates of fare, rules and 
regulations applying to the transportation of pas¬ 
sengers, mail and express, sale of tickets, and relations and 
agreements with other transport companies. 

IV. The Management Corporation shall purchase for the 
account of the respective Operating Companies, from time 
to time, so far as practicable, any and all equipment, ap¬ 
paratus, tools and supplies which may be required for the 
operations thereof. 

V. The Management Corporation shall manage the traf¬ 
fic departments of the respective Operating Companies, 
and, as their agent and for their account, shall employ all 
superintendents, clerks and other employees necessary for 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AX INDIVIDUAL. 


49 


such traffic departments, shall pay their salaries apd wages 
and any and all other expenses of the respective traffic and 
ticket offices, except those which the several Operating 
Companies may elect to pay directly, and shall collect and 
account for any and all receipts of the several tijaffic de¬ 
partments from the sale of tickets or other sources. 

VI. The Management Corporation shall supervise the 
auditing and accounting of the respective Operating Com¬ 
panies and the preparation of their financial, tax and simi¬ 
lar reports. 

VII. The Management Corporation shall cause the prop¬ 
erties and operations of the respective Operating iCompa- 
nies to be at all times covered by such insurance jas may, 
in the judgment of the Management Corporation, be neces¬ 
sary for their reasonable protection, all of which insurance 
shall be placed by the Management Corporation for the 
account of the respective Operating Companies. 

VIII. The Management Corporation shall, from time to 
time, determine upon the advertising and publicity policies 
for the respective Operating Companies and sha^l place 
any and all advertising contracts either for its own ac¬ 
count or for the account of the respective Operating Com¬ 
panies, as occasion may warrant. 

IX. The Management Corporation shall exercisq execu¬ 
tive supervision over franchise, tax and rate mattbrs and 
negotiations and dealings with the United States Govern¬ 
ment and the several departments thereof, and o^er any 
and all controversies or litigations in or to which the re¬ 
spective Operating Companies shall be parties or be inter¬ 
ested; provided, that the services to be rendered by the 
Management Corporation hereunder shall not include legal 
services of any character. 

X. Salaries of officers and employees of the Manajgement 
Corporation shall be paid by it; and, in case any such officer 
or employee shall also be an officer or employee of an Op¬ 
erating Company, arrangements shall be made that such 
officer or employee shall serve without compensation from 
such Operating Company, unless the Operating Company 
shall otherwise agree. 

XI. The Management Corporation shall keep available 
to the respective Operating Companies, at its principal 
office, the experience, advice and assistance of the members 
of its organization and the facilities of its various $epart- 

4—6287a 



50 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


ments for use in any matter pertaining to the operations of 
the several Operating Companies. 

55 XII. Nothing contained in this Agreement is in- 

o o 

tended or shall be construed to be in derogation of or 
in limitation upon the powers and duties of the directors or 
officers of the several Operating Companies. In acting 
hereunder, the Management Corporation shall, at all times, 
be subject to the direction and order of the Boards of Di¬ 
rectors or the respective Operating Companies. 

XIII. As full compensation for services to be rendered 
by the Management Corporation hereunder, and in reim¬ 
bursement of its general expenses, each Operating Com¬ 
pany shall pay to the Management Corporation, within 
thirty davs after the close of each calendar month, a sum in 
cash equal to its ratable share in the expenses of the Man¬ 
agement Corporation for such month, other than expenses 
incurred for account of one or more of the Operating Com¬ 
panies, individually, which share shall be determined, from 
time to time, by the proportion which the volume of opera¬ 
tions of the particular Operating Company for such month 
bears to the total volume of operations of all the Operating 
Companies for the same month. For the purposes of this 
Article XIII, such proportion shall be determined, so far as 
practicable, by giving due weight to the number of miles 
flown by the respective Operating Companies and the gross 
operating revenues thereof, together with such other fac¬ 
tors (if any) as, from time to time, may appear to be equi¬ 
table. The proportions thus determined upon, from time to 
time, shall be applied thereafter from month to month, sub¬ 
ject to adjustment at any time, at the request of any Operat¬ 
ing Company, so as to reflect changing operating conditions. 
In case the Operating Companies shall at any time be un¬ 
able to agree among themselves upon their respective 
shares in the general expenses of the Management Corpora¬ 
tion, the decision of the Management Corporation with re¬ 
spect thereto shall be decisive. 

Applying the foregoing formula to present operations, 
the parties agree that, until adjusted as herein provided, the 
general expenses of the Management Corporation shall be 
borne by the several Operating Companies in the following 
proportions, respectively: 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc.—Three-eighths thereof. 

National Air Transport, Inc.—Three-eighths thereof. 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


51 


Pacific Air Transport—One-eighth thereof. 

Varney Air Lines, Inc.—One-eighth thereof. 

i 

Expenses incurred by the Management Corporajtion for 
account of one or more of the Operating Companies, indi¬ 
vidually, shall be reimbursed to the Management Corpora¬ 
tion by the respective Operating Companies concerned 
therein within thirty days after the close of the month in 
which such expenses were incurred. 

XIV. Any corporation operating an air transport line, 
and controlled through stock ownership by the United Air¬ 
craft & Transport Corporation, may at any time bpcome a 
party to this Agreement by signing the original hereof held 
by the Management Corporation. If at any time |he said 
United Aircraft & Transport Corporation shall ceajse to be 
the owner of at least a majority of the voting stock of any 
Operating Company, such Operating Company stall im¬ 
mediately cease to be a party to this Agreement; provided, 
that it shall remain liable to pay to the Management Cor¬ 
poration any and all sums then payable by such Operating 
Company hereunder. 

56 XV. Any Operating Company may withdraw from 
this Agreement at the close of any calendar year by 
giving to the Management Corporation and to the other 
Operating Companies six months prior notice in wrjiting of 
its intention so to do. 

XVI. This Agreement shall be binding upon, and shall 
inure to the benefit of, the respective parties hereto, their 
successors and assigns. 

XVII. Nothing contained in this Agreement is intended 
to constitute, or shall be construed as constituting, the re¬ 
spective Operating Companies partners with one another, 
or as guarantors or sureties of any of the others, the obliga¬ 
tions of each of the Operating Companies being several and 
not joint. 

XVIII. This Agreement shall become effective as bf July 
1, 1931, upon the approval thereof by the Post-Master Gen¬ 
eral of the United States of America. 

In witness whereof, the parties hereto have caused this 
instrument to be executed by their respective Presidents or 
Vice-Presidents, as of the dav and vear first above Written, 
except as to such Operating Companies as may become par¬ 
ties hereto subsequently to the said date, in which c4se this 



52 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


Agreement shall be deemed to have been entered into by 
them on the respective dates upon which they shall have 
signed the same. 

UNITED AIR LINES, INC., 

By (Signed by) FREDERICK W. JACKSON, 

P rp<zrdp-vf 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, 

INC. 

By (Signed by) P. G. JOHNSON, 

PTP f]P1)f 

NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, 
INC., 

By (Signed by) P. G. JOHNSON, 

Prpsidpv,t 

i PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, 

By (Signed by) P. G. JOHNSON, 

President. 

i VARNEY AIR LINES, INC., 

By (Signed by) P. G. JOHNSON, 

President. 



Exhibit G. 


“New York City, 
February 16, 1934. 


Hon. James A. Farley, 

Postmaster General of the United States, 
Washington, D. C. 


Dear Sir: 

The newspapers have published a copy of your letter, 
dated February 14, 1934, addressed to Hon. Hugo L. Black, 
Chairman of the Special Senate Committee on Ocean and 
Air Mail Contracts. 

Your letter contains the direct charge that United Air 
Lines (by which name the integrated air line system oper¬ 
ated by the undersigned is generally known) were parties 
to a conspiracy which ‘resulted in a division of all air mail 
contracts of the United States and the practical elimination 
of competitive bidding , 9 and that i all the present domestic 
air mail carriers secured contracts based on conspiracy or 
collusion. ’ United Air Lines positively deny the truth of 
these charges as to them and assert that none of the con¬ 
tracts of United Air Lines was so secured. The basic con- 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


53 


i 

i 

tracts under which they are today operating werfe in each 
case the result of competitive bidding, following public ad¬ 
vertisement, and were awarded or sublet to them l<jmg prior 
to the conference in May, 1930, at which time y|)u allege 
the conspiracy was entered into. Here tabulated are the 
facts surrounding the initial letting of contracts to the 
several companies constituting the United Air Lines 
Svstem: 

A. National Air Transport, Inc. 

Route AM-3—Chicago, Illinois, to Dallas, Teyas, and 
return. 

Bids for this route were requested by public advertise¬ 
ment, dated July 15, 1925. Bids were opened September 
15, 1925. The contract was awarded under date of Oc¬ 
tober 7, 1925, to National Air Transport, Inc., as tlje lowest 
responsible bidder, with a bid of 80% of the postage rev¬ 
enue. The only other bidder was General Airways Sys¬ 
tem, Inc. 

Performance under the contract commenced May 12, 
1926, and lias continued to date. 

B. Varnev Air Lines, Inc. 

Route AM-5—Salt Lake City, U., to Seattle, Wash., and 
return. 

Bids for the portion of the route between Elko, Nev., via 
Boise, Ida., and Pasco, Wash., were requested by public 
advertisement dated July 15, 1925. Bids were opened Sep¬ 
tember 15, 1925. The contract was awarded under date of 
October 7, 1925, to Walter T. Varney, of San Francisco, 
Calif., with a bid of 80% of the postage revenue. Walter 
T. Varney was the only bidder. The said contract was 
duly sublet to Varney Air Lines, Inc. 

58 Performance under the contract commenced April 
6, 1926. 

The northern portion of this route (originally known as 
Route AM-32) between Pasco, Wash., and Spokane, Wash., 
Portland, Ore., and Seattle, Wash., was publicly advertised 
for bidding on June 15, 1929. Bids were opened August 
15, 1929. The contract was awarded under date of August 
21, 1929, to Varney Air Lines, Inc., as the lowest respon¬ 
sible bidder, with a bid of 9? per pound. The other bid¬ 
ders were Robert E. Smith, National Parks Airways, Inc., 
and Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 





54 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


Performance under the contract commenced immediately. 

On July 1, 1930, by certificate of the Postmaster General, 
Route AM-32 was duly consolidated with Route AM-5, and, 
upon the order of the present Postmaster General, dated 
October 9, 1933, the air mail route certificate covering the 
consolidated route was sublet to Boeing Air Transport, 
Inc., which now operates the same. 

C. Pacific Air Transport. 

Route AM-8—Seattle, Wash., to Los Angeles, Calif., and 
return. 

Bids for this route were requested by public advertise¬ 
ment dated July 15, 1925. Bids were opened September 
15, 1925. The contract was awarded under date of De¬ 
cember 31, 1925, to Vern C. Gorst, of North Bend, Ore., as 
the lowest responsible bidder, with a bid of 75% of the 
postage revenue. The other bidders were Wiley F. Crist, 
of San Francisco, Calif., and Western Air Express, Inc. 
The said contract w’as duly sublet to Pacific Air Transport. 

Performance under the contract commenced September 
15, 1926, and has continued to date. 

D. National Air Transport, Inc. 

Route AM-17—Newark, N. J., to Chicago, Ill., and return. 

Bids for this route were requested by public advertise¬ 
ment dated November 15, 1926. Bids were opened Janu¬ 
ary 15, 1927, all bids being rejected. The route was pub¬ 
licly re-advertised for bidding on March 8, 1927, and bids 
submitted pursuant thereto were opened March 24, 1927. 
The contract was awarded under date of April 2, 1927, to 
National Air Transport, Inc., as the lowest' responsible 
bidder, with a bid of $1.24 per pound. The other bidders 
were A. F. Stewart, Colonial Air Transport, and North 
American Airwavs. 

Performance under the contract commenced September 
1, 1927, and has continued to date. 

E. Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

Route AM-18—Chicago, Ill., to San Francisco, Calif., and 
return. 

59 Bids for this route were requested by public ad¬ 
vertisement dated November 15, 1926. Bids were 
opened January 15,1927. The contract was awarded under 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


55 


date of January 29, 1927, to Boeing Airplane Combany and 
Edward Hubbard, as the lowest responsible bidders, with 
a bid of $1.50 per pound for the first 1,000 mile^ and 15c 
per pound for each additional 100 miles. The other bid¬ 
ders were Stout Air Services, Inc., Western Air Express, 
Inc., and Columbia Airliners. The said contract [was duly 
sublet to Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

Performance under the contract commenced July 1, 1927, 


and has continued to date. 


f 


and that, 
[sponsible 


Each of the above described contracts was for ^ term of 
four years from the date of award. At various plates be¬ 
tween May and November, 1930, each of the said contracts 
was duly surrendered in accordance with the provisions of 
the ‘McXary-Watres Act’ in exchange for routje certifi¬ 
cates, duly issued by the Post Office Department. Said 
route certificates are in form prescribed by the Post Office 
Department and confer upon the holders the right to carry 
the mails over the respective routes for a period of ap¬ 
proximately ten years from the date of commenqement of 
operations under the original contracts. 

From the foregoing it is clear that all the contracts of 
the constituent companies of the United Air Lilies were 
awarded as a result of public competitive bidding 
in each case, award was made to the lowest re* 
bidder. 

No new route or extension of an existing route was 
granted to any of the United Air Lines subsequent to the 
conference above referred to, with the exception of the 
branch line between Omaha, Neb., and Watertown, S. D., 
and the extension between Los Angeles and S^n Diego. 
The Watertown extension was neither solicited nbr desired 
by United Air Lines, but was put into operation by Boeing 
Air Transport, Inc., under instructions of the P^st Office 
Department. The San Diego extension was a logical 
southerly extension of the previously existing Pacific Coast 
route of Pacific Air Transport (Route AM-8) and was en¬ 
tirely within the spirit and the letter of the McNar^-Watres 
Act. Neither of these extensions was in any way dis¬ 
cussed at the conference, and none of the undersigned at 
any time entered into any agreement or understanding, ex¬ 
press or implied, with any other mail operator wit|h respect 
to the granting thereof. j 



56 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


None of the representatives of United Air Lines pro¬ 
posed to enter, or entered, into any agreement or under¬ 
standing dealing with the granting of extensions to their 
own or other lines, or to the division of territory between 

lines. At the time of the conference Varnev Air Lines 

* 

was in no wav affiliated with the United Air Lines svstem, 
although your letter carries the contrary implication, and 
Thompson Aeronautical Corporation, which your letter also 
ascribes to the United Air Lines system, was not then 
and never has been in anv wav affiliated with United. 

i * % 

At the time of the conference United Air Lines had al¬ 
ready, through open competitive bidding, as above 
60 set forth, established an integrated transcontinental 
system, embracing lines between New York, Chi¬ 
cago and San Francisco, Chicago and Dallas, Tex., and 
Seattle and Los Angeles, respectively. United Air Lines 
were hnanciallv committed and contractuallv obligated to 
the improvement of their system, and were not interested 
and, in fact, could not legally participate in any other 
transcontinental system. Representatives of United Air 
Lines were present at the conference only at the request of 
the Postmaster General, with whose orders and regulations 
they were under obligations to comply. 

In vour letter to Senator Black, vou state that the con- 
tract for Route AM-32 (Pasco-Spokane, Portland-Seattle) 
‘was awarded to Varney Air Lines, Inc., owned by United 
Aircraft on August 21 , 1929, at a rate of nine cents per 
pound/ and that ‘this route was consolidated with another 
route of United Air Lines July 1, 1930, at a rate of $2.43 
per pound.’ The fact is that United Aircraft did not own 
Varney Air Lines in August, 1929. It was not until June 
28, 1930, almost a year thereafter, that United Aircraft 
acquired any portion of the stock thereof; and the reor¬ 
ganization of the management of Varney Air Lines as a 
United Aircraft subsidiary was not effected until August 
26, 1930. The facts with respect to the contracts of Varney 
Air Lines, Inc., have been set forth above. 

In the first paragraph on page two of your letter, as re¬ 
leased to the press, you say: 

‘Five of these contracts were executed November 7, 1925, 
and would have expired by operation of law November 7, 
1929, except fqr an order issued on November 6, 1929, by 
Second Assistant Postmaster General W. Irving Glover 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


57 


extending these contracts for a period of six molnths so 
as to make them terminate May 7, 1930. I am Satisfied 
that the extension of these contracts for said period of six 
months was illegal. There was no attempt whatever to 
readvertise said routes or re-award them, or emergency 
requiring them to be let without competitive bidding, and 
the course pursued was a part of the conspiracy herein¬ 
after mentioned. Extensions of these contract^ for a 
period of ten years, under the so-called 4 Certificate’ 
method, were arbitrarily made by Postmaster General 
Brown on May 3, 1930.’ 

i 

Contracts covering two of the routes now being operated 
by United Air Lines were included in the orders which you 
assert were illegally issued by the Second Assistant Post¬ 
master General. For more than twelve months jjrior to 
November 6, 1929, the contract of Varney Air Lincfs, Inc., 
covering Route AM-5, and of National Air Transport, Inc., 
covering Route AM-3, were eligible for conversion into 
route certificates under the provisions of the 1S28 amend¬ 
ment of the so-called ‘Kelley Act,’ which, among other 
things, provided for the surrender of contracts,! under 
which satisfactory service had been performed f^r two 
years, for route certificates which would permit continuing 
operations for a period of ten years from the dates on which 
service was inaugurated under the original contrac{s. Al¬ 
though negotiations looking toward the surrender bf such 
contracts had been carried on for a considerable period 
prior to November 6, 1929, the Postmaster General had not, 
up to that date, accepted such surrender. The orders of 
t lie Second Assistant Postmaster General, on No- 
61 veinber 6, 1929, were, as the undersigned are advised. 

in strict conformitv with the law covering the situa- 
tion. Issuance of the orders was not solicited by either 
Varney Air Lines, Inc., or National Air Transport, Inc., 
and route certificates covering the same routes were issued 
to the same carriers at or before the expiration of the ex¬ 
tended period. At the time of the extension, neither 1 of the 
companies affected was in any w’ay affiliated with United 
Aircraft. 

Your letter to Senator Black refers to alleged excessive 
payments paid by the Post Office Department to air mail 
contractors, and implies that such excessive payments have 
been received by all of them. It can readily be shown from 



58 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., <fcC., VS. 


the Post Office Department’s records that, so far as United 
Air Lines are concerned, the cost of carrying the mail has 
steadily decreased. In May, 1930, United Air Lines re¬ 
ceived payment at the average rate of $1.18 a mile as com¬ 
pared with an average of 53c a mile in May, 1933. Since 
May, 1933, the average rate has been further reduced to 
approximately 36c a mile for the entire United Air Lines 
system. The mail revenue of United Air Lines per pound 
mile is now approximately the same as the stamp revenue 
per pound mile received by the Government from the pub¬ 
lic; that is, about 1.6 mills. Owing to the difficulty with 
which the Post Office Department is confronted in calculat¬ 
ing the exact revenue received by it from air mail, it ap¬ 
pears to be impossible to arrive at an exact computation 
thereof, but recent official statements indicate that the stamp 
revenue for air mail currentlv amounts to between 1.5 mills 
and 2 mills per pound mile for the country as a whole. 

The undersigned call your attention to the evident mis¬ 
information upon which your letter is based, in the con¬ 
fident expectation that you will re-examine the facts and 
give the undersigned an opportunity to be heard, to the end 
that grave injustice shall not be suffered by the under¬ 
signed, who have in the best of good faith entered into con¬ 
tract obligations with the United States Government, have 
fully and faithfully complied with all laws and regulations, 
and have, in cooperation with the Post Office Department, 
created one of the greatest Air Transport Systems in the 
world. 

Yours very trulv, 

‘BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC.. 
NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, 
i VARNEY AIR LINES, INC., 

UNITED AIR LINES, INC., 

By P. G. JOHNSON, 

President.” 

62 Motion to Dismiss. 

Filed May 8, 1934. 

• •••••• 

Comes now the defendant in the above entitled cause, and 
moves to dismiss the bill of complaint filed herein for the 
following reasons: 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 59 

1. That the bill of complaint does not state a goo<jI cause 
of action. 

2. That the suit is virtually one against the United 

States. | 

3. That the plaintiff has a plain, adequate and complete 
remedy at law, namely, a suit in the Court of Claires, for 
the alleged breach of contract. 

4. That this suit seeks to control the official acts of the 
Postmaster General of the United States, which aits are 
within the scope of his authority and part of his official 
duties, and involve the exercise of judgment and discretion 
in respect to matters lawfully submitted to his care. 

5. And for other reasons apparent of record. 

LESLIE C. GARNETT, 

United States Attorneys 
DAVID A. PINE, | 

Assistant United States Attorney, 

JOHN W. FIHELLY, 

7 I 

Assistant . United States Attorney ,j 

Attorneys for Defendant. 

CARL L. RISTINE, ! 

Special Assistant to the Attorney General, 

Of Counsel. 

HARRY L. JONES, 

Attorney, Department of Justice, 

Of Counsel. i 

Decree Granting Motion to Dismiss, &c. j 
Filed June 6, 1934. j 

# # • • * * #| 

This cause came on to be heard at this term upqn the 
motion of defendant to dismiss the bill of complaint 
63 hied herein; and thereupon, upon consideration 
thereof, it is, this 6tli day of June, 1934, 

Adjudged, ordered and decreed that the motion t^ dis¬ 
miss said bill of complaint be and the same is hereby 
granted, and said bill of complaint be and the saine is 
hereby dismissed. 

DANIEL W. O’DONOGHUE, 

Justice. 

No objection as to form: 

WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, 

Attorney for Plaintiff. 



60 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C., VS. 


Notation of Appeal. 

Filed June 19, 1934. 

• ••••** 

Comes now the plaintiff in the above entitled cause and 
notes an appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District of 
Columbia, from that certain order and decree made and 
entered by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia 
on the 6th dav of June, 1934. 

WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, 

Attorney for Plaintiff -Appellant. 


Citation. 


Issued June 19, 1934. 


The President of the United States, to James A. Farley, an 

individual, Greeting: 

You are hereby cited and admonished to be and appear 
at the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, upon 
docketing the cause therein, under and as directed by the 
rules of said court, pursuant to an appeal from the Su¬ 
preme Court of the District of Columbia, on the 19" 
64 day of June, 1934, wherein Boeing Air Transport, 
Inc., is appellant, and you are appellee, to show 
cause, if any,there be, why the decree rendered against the 
said appellant, should not be corrected, and why speedy 
justice should not be done to the parties in that behalf. 

Witness the Honorable Alfred A. Wheat, Chief Justice 
of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, this 
19" day of June, in the year of Our Lord, one thousand 
nine hundred and thirty-four. 

[seal.] FRANK E. CUNNINGHAM, 

Clerk. 

By HARRY M. HULL, 

Assistant Clerk. 

Service of appeal citation in Eq. 57040 acknowledged & 
accepted June 19, 1934. 

LESLIE C. GARNETT, 

U. S. Attorney. 



I 

I 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. G1 

I 

j 

Order Setting Appeal Bond. j 

Filed June 20, 1934. j 

■ 

******* 

I 

It appearing to the court that an appeal was th^s day 
noted herein from the decree of June 6, 1934, it is this 20th 
day of June 

Ordered that the bond on appeal be and the same hereby 
is fixed in the sum of $100.00, or in lieu thereof, $5(j).00 in 
cash. 

JENNINGS BAILEY, 

Justice. 

65 Memorandum. 

June 20, 1934.—$50 deposit in lieu of bond on appeal. 

Assignment of Errors. 

Filed June 19, 1934. ! 

* * * * * * * 

i 

Comes now the plaintiff in the above entitled causie and 
files the following assignment of errors upon which it will 
rely in prosecuting its appeal in the above entitled jCause 
from the order and decree made by this Honorable Coprt on 
the 6th day of June, 1934: 

The Court erred: j 

1. In dismissing the bill of complaint. 

2. In failing to hold that the Court had jurisdiction of 
the suit. 

3. In holding that the suit is essentially a suit against 
the United States. 

4. In holding that the suit involves the handling qf the 
mails and therefore involves the property of the United 
States. 

5. In failing to hold that the acts of defendant Farley 
complained of were unauthorized by law and therefore void. 

6. In failing to hold that defendant Farlev is individually 
responsible for his unauthorized acts and that he isj sub¬ 
ject to injunction therefor. 

7. In failing to hold that no interest of the United States 
would be affected by the granting of the relief sought. 

8. In holding that the plaintiff has an adequate remedy 
at law bv suit in the Court of Claims. 


I 



62 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., <fcC., VS. 


9. In holding that the acts complained of do not 
66 violate the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of 
the United States or the rights thereby preserved 
to the plaintiff. 

10. In failing to hold that section 3950 of the Revised 
Statutes, insofar as it seeks to impose pains and penalties 
is unconstitutional as applied to this plaintiff upon the facts 
set forth in the complaint, because constituting a bill of 
attainder. 

11. In holding that the Court could not properly enjoin 
the imposition of any such penalty prior to the actual 
imposition thereof. 

12. In failing to hold that the facts alleged in the com¬ 
plaint call for equitable relief. 

WM. J. DONOVAN, 

i Attorney for Plaintiff-Appellant. 


Docket Entries. 

*•••*** 


Date 


934 

Apr. 

18 

i i 

4 4 

4 4 

4 4 

4 4 

4 4 

1 

4 4 

Mav 

m 

8 

i 

i 

4 4 

4 4 

19 

4 i 

4 4 

i 

4 4 

4 4 

June 

6 

4 4 

4 4 

19 

4 4 

4 4 

4 4 

4 4 

4 4 

44 

4 4 

4 4 

20 

4 4 

4 4 

4 4 

1 

4 4 

4 4 

4 4 

4 4 

July 

9 


Proceedings 

Deposit toward costs by Donovan. 

Bill, appearance, order to file, & Exhs. (7) 
filed. 

Subpoena to answer and copy issued. Re¬ 
turned. Served 4-18-34. 

Mo. of deft, to dismiss bill, Notice, P. & 
A.—App. U. S. Attv., Restine & Jones. 
Filed. 

Pl’ff’s P. & A. in opposition to motion to 
dismiss; acknowledgment of service. 

Stipulation. 

Order granting Motion to dismiss, & dis¬ 
missing Bill. 

Notation of pl’ff of appeal filed. 

Citation of appeal issued. Service accepted 
6/19/34. 

Assignment of Errors filed. 

Order setting appeal bond at $100 or $50 
cash. 

Deposit by Donovan, Bond & Leisure for 
pPff in lieu of bond on appeal. 

Deposit by Donovan. 

Designation of Record. Filed. 



63 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


67 


Designation of Record. 
Filed July 9, 1934. 


i 

Plaintiff, Boeing Air Transport, Inc., having perfected 
an appeal to the United States Court of Appeals ^or the 
District of Columbia in the above-entitled cause, respect¬ 
fully requests the Clerk of this Court to prepare and make 
part of the transcript of record in this cause the following 
papers and proceedings: 


(1) Bill of Complaint and Exhibits. 

(2) Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss the Bill of Complaint. 

(3) Opinion of Mr. Justice O’Donoghue sustaining de¬ 
fendant’s Motion to Dismiss the Bill of Complaint. 

(4) Decree granting Motion to Dismiss and dismissing 
Bill of Complaint entered June 6, 1934. 

(5) Written Notation of Appeal. 

(6) Citation. i 

(7) Order setting appeal bond at $100 or in lieu thereof 

$50 in cash. j 

(8) Memorandum—$50 in cash paid June 20, 1934. 

(9) Assignment of Errors. 


(10) This Designation. 

(11) Docket Entries. 


WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, 

Attorney for Plaintiff. 


Service of foregoing acknowledged this 9th day of Julv, 
1934. 

LESLIE C. GARNETT, 

U. S. Attorney, ! 
Attorney for Defendant. 


68 


Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. 


United States of America, 

District of Columbia, ss: 


I, Frank E. Cunningham, Clerk of the Supreme Court 
of the District of Columbia, hereby certify the foregoing 
pages numbered from 1 to 67, both inclusive, to be a jtrue 
and correct transcript of the record, according to direc¬ 
tions of counsel herein hied, copy of which is made pai*t of 

l 

I 

i 



64 BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., <fcC., VS. JAS. A. FARLEY. 


tliis transcript, in cause No. 57040 in Equity, wherein 
Boeing Air Transport, Inc., a corporation, is Plaintiff and 
James A. Farley, an individual, is Defendant, as the same 
remains upon the files and of record in said Court. 

In testimony whereof, I hereunto subscribe my name and 
affix the seal of said Court, at the City of Washington, in 
said District, this loth day of August, *1934. 

[Seal Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.] 

FRANK E. CUNNINGHAM, 

Cleric. 

Endorsed on cover: District of Columbia Supreme Court. 
No. 6287. Boeing Air Transport, Inc., &c., appellant, vs. 
James A. Farley, an individual. United States Court of 
Appeals for the District of Columbia. Filed Aug. 23, 1934. 
Henry W. Hodges, clerk. 


(5367-C) 






United States Court of Appeals for the 

District of Columbia 

, ' i .• H , * 

APRIL TERM, 1934 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., A CORPORA 

TION, APPELLANT, 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL 


APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF 

COLUMBIA. 


PRINTED SEPTEMBER 1 















United States Court of Appeals for the 

District of Columbia 

APRIL TERM, 1934. 

No. 6288 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., A CORPORA¬ 
TION, APPELLANT, 


VS. 


I 

I 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL, APPELLEE. 


APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF 

COLUMBIA. ! 


INDEX. 


Original 

Caption . 1 

Bill of complaint for injunction. jl 

Exhibit “A” . 24 

Exhibit “B” . 29 

Exhibit “C” . 33 

Exhibit “D” . 43 

Exhibit "E” . 50 

Exhibit “F” . 54 

Motion to dismiss. 5^ 

Decree granting motion to dismiss. 60 

Notation of appeal. 60 

Citation on appeal. 63| 

Order setting appeal bond. 61 

Memorandum: $50.00 deposit in lieu of bond on appeal_ 62 

Assignment of errors. 62 

Docket entries . 63i 

Designation of record. 64 

Clerk’s certificate . 65 


Print 

1 

1 

19 

24 

29 

36 

44 

49 

55 

56 

56 

57 

57 

58 

58 

59 

59 

60 


Judd & Detweiler (Inc.), Printers, Washington, D. C„ September; 5, 1934. 





















United States Court of Appeals for the 

District of Columbia 

I 

i 

— 

i 

No. 6288. | 

National Air Transport, 1 nc., &c., Appellant, 

vs. 

James A. Farley, an Individual. 


a Supreme Court of the District of Columbia 

i 

In Equity. 

No. 57041. | 

National Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, Plaintiff, 

vs. 

James A. Farley, an Individual, Defendant 

i 

United States of America, 

District of Columbia, ss: 

Be it remembered, That in the Supreme Court of the Dis¬ 
trict of Columbia, at the City of Washington, in skid Dis¬ 
trict, at the times hereinafter mentioned, the following 
papers were filed and proceedings had, in the above J entitled 
cause, to wit: 

i 

1 Bill of Complaint for Injunction. 

Filed April 18, 1934. j 

In the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, Holding 

an Equity Court. 

* 

In Equity. j 

No. 57041. | 

I 

National Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, Plaintiff, 

vs. 

James A. Farley, an Individual, Defendant. j 

To the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia holding 
a Court of Equity: 

The plaintiff National Air Transport, Inc., a corporation, 
brings its bill of complaint against the above naiped de- 

1—6288a 




2 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


fendant James A. Farley, the Postmaster General of the 
United States, individually, and respectfully shows unto 
this Honorable Court as follows: 

1. That the plaintiff, National Air Transport, Inc., is a 
citizen of the United States, to wit, a corporation organized 
and existing under the laws of the State of Delaware; that 
the said plaintiff was organized in May, 1925, and has its 
principal place of business in the City of Chicago, State of 
Illinois, and that it is authorized, among other things, to 
engage in commerce and to carrv on the business of trails- 
porting by air, passengers, freight, mail and other articles; 
that all of its officers, stockholders and directors are citi¬ 
zens of the United States. 

2 2. That the defendant Janies A. Farley is and 

since March 4, 1933 has been the duly appointed and 

acting Postmaster General of the United States, and is a 

citizen and resident of the United States and resides in the 

Citv of Washington, District of Columbia. The defendant 

Farley is sought herein to be restrained from doing certain 

acts purportedly as Postmaster General of the United 

States, which acts are not within the powers granted to him 

as Postmaster General by law and, therefore, if done, would 

not be official acts of the Government bv its Postmaster 

•> 

General. The defendant Farlev is sued individually and 
not in his official capacity of Postmaster General of the 
United States. 

3. This suit arises under the Constitution and Laws of 
the United States. The particular provision of the Con¬ 
stitution involved is the Fifth Amendment to the Constitu¬ 
tion and the particular laws involved are Revised Statutes, 
Section 3950, United States Code, Title 39, Section 465c, and 
the other statutes of the United States pertaining to the 
postal service. The amount in controversy exceeds the sum 
of $3,000 in value, exclusive of interest and costs. 

4. Plaintiff is advised and avers that the purported or¬ 
der of the defendant, dated February 9, 1934, hereinafter 
referred to, purporting to annul the contracts for the carry¬ 
ing of air mail therein designated, is illegal and void be¬ 
cause beyond the authority, power or jurisdiction of the de¬ 
fendant, and because it is unconstitutional in that it results 
in depriving the plaintiff of its property without due 
process of law and constitutes an illegal taking of its prop¬ 
erty without just compensation in violation of the Fifth 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AX INDIVIDUAL. 


3 


Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. 

3 5. That on or about the 15th day of July, lj925, the 
then Postmaster General of the United Statjes, pur¬ 
suant to Sections 421 and 464 of Title 39 of the United 
States Code, caused advertisements to be published re¬ 
questing that proposals or bids be submitted for thp carry¬ 
ing of mail by air for the route known as Route jA.. M. 3 
between the points of Chicago and Dallas and Forti Worth, 
Texas, via Kansas City, Missouri, Wichita, Kansas and 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. 

6. That pursuant to such advertisements the fallowing 

proposals or bids for carrying the mail for Route ^4. M. 3 
were submitted and opened, in accordance with Secfion 425 
of Title 39 of the United States Code, on September 15, 
1925: j 

(a) National Air Transport, Inc., the plaintiff at the 
rate of four-fifths of the revenues derived from ^uch air 
mail. 

(b) General Airways System, Inc., at the rate df eight 
cents per ounce or per letter, which ever may be the 
greater. 

7. That on or about November 7, 1925, the thep Post¬ 
master General, acting in accordance with Sections |129 and 
464 of Title 39 of the United States Code and in accordance 
with the other provisions of law, awarded the contract for 
the carrying of mail by air over Route A. M. 3 to thp plain¬ 
tiff as being the lowest qualified bidder tendering sufficient 
guarantees for faithful performance in accordance with 
the terms of the advertisement. A copy of said contract is 
annexed hereto as Exhibit “A” and made a part hereof. 
The plaintiff duly filed a performance bond in the hmount 
of $10,000 as required by Section- 426 and 437 of Tit^e 39 of 
the United States Code. Thereafter and on or about No¬ 
vember 6, 1929, the said contract was duly extended for a 

period of six months. 

4 8. That on or about the 8th day of March, 1927, 
the then Postmaster General of the United States, 

pursuant to Sections 421 and 464 of Title 39 of the United 
States Code, caused advertisements to be published re¬ 
questing that proposals or bids be submitted for thq carry¬ 
ing of mail by air for the route known as Route A r M. 17 
between the points of New York and Chicago, via Cleve¬ 
land, Ohio. 



4 


NATIONAL AIB TRANSPORT, INC., <fcC. VS. 


9. That pursuant to such advertisements the following 
proposals or bids for carrying the mail for Route A. M. 17 
were submitted and opened, in accordance with Section 
425 of Title 39 of the United States Code, on March 24, 
1927: 


(a) National Air Transport, Inc., the plaintiff, at the 
rate of $1.24 per pound. 

(b) Colonial Air Transport, at the rate of $1.68 per 
pound. 

(c) North American Airways, Inc., at the rate of $1.23 
per pound. 

(d) B. F. Stewart, at the rate of $.35 per pound. 

10. That on or about April 2, 1927, the then Postmaster 
General, acting in accordance with Sections 429 and 464 of 
Title 39 of the United States Code and in accordance with 
the other provisions of law, awarded the contract for the 

carrying of mail bv air over Route A. M. 17 to the 
5 plaintiff as being the lowest qualified bidder tender¬ 
ing sufficient guarantees for faithful performance in 
accordance with the terms of the advertisement. A copy 
of said contract is annexed hereto as Exhibit “B” and 
made a part hereof. The plaintiff duly filed a performance 
bond in the amount of $500,000 as required by Section- 426 
and 427 of Title 39 of the United States Code. 

11. That the performance by the plaintiff under the said 
contracts began on May 12, 1926 and September 1, 1927, 
respectively, and that such contracts and either of them, 
have never been sublet or transferred, nor has any agree¬ 
ment been macje with anyone to operate or perform part of 
the service required by such contracts or either of them. 
Such contracts or route certificates, hereinafter referred 
to, were not, nor were any of them awarded to the plaintiff 
by fraud, collusion or 1 any illegal means. The plaintiff has 
never entered, or proposed to enter, into any combination 
to prevent the making of any bid for carrying the mail, nor 
has it made any agreement, given or performed, or prom¬ 
ised to give or perform any consideration whatsoever to 
induce any other person not to bid for any contract to 

carrv mail. 

%> 

12. That plaintiff has fully and satisfactorily performed 
all the services and complied with all the terms and condi¬ 
tions required by such contracts, and each of them, and 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 5 

7 

the laws of the United States and the rules, regulations 
and orders of the Post Office Department relating thereto. 
At all times the United States has accepted and paid for 
such services as satisfactory. 

13. That for many years it has been the policy of the 
United States Government and of the Post Office 

6 Department to foster commercial aviationJ This 
policy included the encouragement of the jnainte- 

nance of an aircraft manufacturing industry whose| plants 
could be adapted to military needs in time of v^ar, the 
maintenance of an air transport system in order to insure 
a reserve of trained pilots, and the development of more 
efficient airplanes, safety devices and equipment. T^> carry 
out this policy the Congress of the United States provided 
that the air mail should be carried by commercial air 
transport companies and not by an air mail service oper¬ 
ated bv the United States. To establish a reliable and 
* 

efficient air mail service and to foster commercial ayiation 
Congress enacted the following statutes, to wit: 

(A) On February 2, 1925, an Act known as the Air Mail 
Act (43 Stat. 805) was enacted. The Act gave the Post¬ 
master General authority to make contracts for the car¬ 
riage of mail by air. By the Act the pay of contractors 
was limited to four-fifths of the postal air mail revenue 
derived from the carriage of mail over a particular route, 
and contracts were let on the basis of the amount of (weight 
of air mail actuallv carried. The contracts were for a 

i 

period of four years. The contract for Route A.M. 3 was 
made pursuant to this statute and the contract for Route 
A.M.. 17 was made pursuant to this statute as anjiended 
June 3,1926, Ch. 460. j 

(B) To establish and maintain air transportation Service 
which would efficiently and safely meet the needs of the 
public and of the air mail service a large investment by 
the air transport companies was required. This invest¬ 
ment was jeopardized by the fact that all existing air mail 
contracts were for a term of four years only. To protect 
this large investment and to give assurance to air trans¬ 
port companies that they could carry air mai} for a 

7 period of ten years upon satisfactorily performing 
the service required, Congress, on May 17, 1928, 

passed the so-called Kelly Act (45 Stat. 594), amending 
Section 3 of the Act of February 2, 1925. This statute pro- 

i 




6 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


vided that the Postmaster General, upon the surrender of 
the air mail contract by a contractor who had satisfactorily 
performed the services therein provided for a period of two 
vears or more, could issue in substitution therefor an air 
mail route certificate. Such certificate was to provide that 
for a period not to exceed ten years the holder should have 
the right to carry air mail over the route set out in the 
certificate, as long as he complied with the rules, regula¬ 
tions and orders of the Postmaster General. The rate of 
compensation was to be determined by negotiation between 
the certificate holder and the Postmaster General, but was 
not to exceed the rate of compensation provided in the 
original contract for carrying air mail. The Act also pro¬ 
vided that such certificates could be cancelled at any time 
for wilful neglect to carry out the rules, regulation- or 
orders issued by the Postmaster General, and that notice of 
such intended cancellation should be given in writing and 
an opportunity to answer such written notice of the Post¬ 
master General should be afforded the holder. 

(C) Beginning in 1928, it was realized that the system 
adopted by the United States and the Post Office Depart¬ 
ment of paying air mail transport companies on the basis 
of the amount of mail carried was inequitable and unprofita¬ 
ble to air transport companies. At that time compensation 
was based on the amount of air mail carried without regard 
to the distance. To remove this inequitable method of pay¬ 
ment and to promote the policy of developing an efficient 
air transportation service both for the carrying of 
8 passengers and of air mail, Congress passed the so- 
called Wat res Act (39 United States Code, Section 
465c), on April 29, 1930, amending the Kelly Act mentioned 
in paragraph 11 (B) hereof. The statute changed the basis 
of payment from the amount of air mail carried to the 
number and regularity of flights made between certain 
points by airplanes having a certain air mail space ca¬ 
pacity. The Act provides as follows: 

4 4 The Postmaster General may, if in his judgment the 
public interest will be promoted thereby, upon the sur¬ 
render of any air-mail contract, issue in substitution there¬ 
for a route certificate for a period of not exceeding ten 
years from the date service started under such contract 
to anv contractor or subcontractor who has satisfactorilv 
operated an air-mail route for a period of not less than 



7 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


two years, which certificate shall provide that thjs holder 
thereof shall have the right, so long as he complies with 
all rules, regulations and orders that may be issued by the 
Postmaster General for meeting the needs of the Postal 
Service and adjusting mail operations to the advances in 
the art of flying and passenger transportation, to carry air 
mail over the route set out in the certificate or any modifica- 
tion thereof at rates of compensation to be fixed from time 
to time, at least annually, by the Postmaster General, and 
he shall publish in his annual report his reasons j for the 
continuance or the modification of any rates: Provided, 
That such rates shall not exceed $1.25 per mile. Such cer¬ 
tificate may be cancelled at any time for willful neglect on 
the part of the holder to carry out any rules, regulations, 
or orders made for his guidance, notice of such intended 
cancellation to be given in writing by the Postmaster Gen¬ 


eral and forty-five davs allowed the holder in which! to show 

cause whv the certificate should not be cancelled.”! 

* 


14. On or about the 3rd day of May, 1930, relying upon 
the above statute and the policy of Congress and th^ United 
States as above set forth, and upon its right to notice and 
opportunity for a hearing prior to any cancellation of its 
certificate, the plaintiff offered to surrender its contract for 
Route A. M. 3, in accordance with the provision^ of the 
Wat res Act. Pursuant to the authority vested in him 
9 under such Act, the Postmaster General accepted the 
surrender of the said contract and issued in Substitu¬ 
tion therefor Route Certificate A.M. 3 to the plaintiff. A 
copy of such Route Certificate A.M. 3 is annexe^ hereto 
marked Exhibit “C” and is made a part hereof. According 
to the terms of said route certificate the plaintiff carrier 
for the period ending April 5, 1936, was obligated jto make 
four flights each day at certain hours of the day aijd night, 
by planes having a specified air mail capacity, over the 
route from Chicago, Illinois, via Kansas City, Missouri, 
and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma to Fort Worth and Dallas, 
Texas and return. During this period it was grafted the 
right, upon the terms and conditions mentioned jin such 
certificate, to receive therefor the compensation sjet forth 
in the certificate and the right to carry United Stjates air 
mail over such route. 

By the terms of such certificate 60 days’ notice is Required 
before the Postmaster General (a) could modify said route 




8 


NATIONAL AIK TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


by an extension, or prescribe the schedule of stops thereon 
or determine the mileage upon which the compensation of 
the carrier is to be based; or (b) increase, diminish or 
modify the service prescribed in the certificate or make ad¬ 
justment in the compensation of the carrier. The certifi¬ 
cate further provides that the certificate can be cancelled 
by the Postmaster General for wilful neglect to carry out 
any rules or orders for its guidance upon forty-five days’ 
notice, and that it can be cancelled for breach of the con¬ 
dition prescribed in paragraph 12 of the certificate. By 
virtue of this certificate the plaintiff acquired a vested 
property right to carry air mail and receive the compensa¬ 
tion specified upon compliance with the terms and condi¬ 
tions of the certificate. 

10 15. On or about the 22nd day of October, 1930, 

relying! upon the above statute and the policy of 
Congress and the United States as above set forth, and 
upon its right to notice and opportunity for a hearing 
prior to any cancellation of its certificate, the plaintiff 
offered to surrender its contract for Route A.M. 17, in 
accordance with the provisions of the Wat res Act. Pur¬ 
suant to the authoritv vested in him under such Act, the 
Postmaster General accepted the surrender of the said 
contract and issued in substitution therefor Route Certifi¬ 
cate A.M. 17 to the plaintiff. A copy of such Route Cer- 
ticate A.M. 17 is annexed hereto marked Exhibit “D” and 
is made a part hereof. According to the terms of said route 
certificate the plaintiff carrier for the period ending April 
5, 1936, was obligated to make eight flights each day at 
certain hours of the day and night, by planes having a 
specified air mail capacity, over the route from New York 
via Cleveland, Ohio, to Chicago and return. During this 
period it was granted the right, upon the terms and condi¬ 
tions mentioned in such certificate, to receive therefor the 
compensation set forth in the certificate and the right to 
carry United States air mail over such route. 

By the terms of such certificate 60 days’ notice is re¬ 
quired before the Postmaster General (a) could modify 
said route by an extension, or prescribe the schedule of 
stops thereon or determine the mileage upon which the 
compensation of the carrier is to be based; or (b) increase, 
diminish or modify the service prescribed in the certificate 
or make adjustment in the compensation of the carrier. 
The certificate further provides that the certificate can be 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


9 


cancelled by the Postmaster General for wilful neglect to 
carry out any rules or orders for its guidance upon 

11 forty-five days’ notice, and that it can be cancelled 
for breach of the condition prescribed in paragraph 

12 of the certificate. By virtue of this certificate tlje plain¬ 
tiff acquired a vested property right to carry air njiail and 
receive the compensation specified upon complaifice with 
the terms and conditions of the certificate. 

1 

16. Pursuant to said Route Certificates, the plaifitiff en¬ 
tered into the performance of its duties under said certifi¬ 
cates and has duly performed all of the terms ancjl condi¬ 
tions thereof on its part to be performed. The plaintiff 
has violated no law, rule or order of the United States or 
of the Post Office Department either in obtaining its route 
certificates or in the operation of its transport facilities 
which would give cause or justification for the cancellation 
of such certificates. 

17. In reliance upon the rights conferred by such route 
certificates to carry mail for a period of ten years the 
plaintiff, in accordance with the obligations of the certifi¬ 
cates, has supplied night and day flying service for passen¬ 
gers, express and air mail, and has made a very substantial 
investment in land, buildings and improvements, aifplanes, 
engines and other equipment. In reliance upon thp rights 
granted to the plaintiff under said route certificates^ it has 
built a large business having a value as a going (}oncern 
of many millions of dollars. In reliance upon sai(jl route 
certificates, the plaintiff has entered into many lonp term 
leases of property in connection with its air transport 
facilities. All of its property is specially adapted' to its 
business as a carrier of passengers, mail and expi+ess by 
air over said routes, and has no substantial value 'except 

in its business. In order to comply with the terms 
12 of said route certificates the plaintiff has incurred 
obligations in large amount for the purchase of ad¬ 
ditional flying equipment. The plaintiff employs 1 many 
employees, including pilots, mechanics and clerks jwhose 
employment depends upon the continued performance by 
the plaintiff of its obligations under said route certi^cates. 

18. That on the 15th day of July, 1931, the plaintiff en¬ 
tered into a management contract (a copy of which is 
attached hereto and marked Exhibit “E”) with lpnited 
Air Lines, Inc., a Delaware Corporation, under the terms 



10 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., <fcC. VS. 


of which the United Air Lines, Inc., was to serve as a 
coordinating! agency for the plaintiff’s business and that 
of Boeing Air Transport, Inc., Pacific Air Transport, and 
Varney Air Lines, Inc., as constituting an integrated air¬ 
line service known as the “United System.” The purpose 
and effect of such management contract was to promote 
economy and efficiency in such operating companies, to 
reduce their operating, administrative, general accounting, 
engineering, i advertising and purchasing expenses, and to 
assist in the policy adopted by the United States to foster 
commercial aviation and air mail service. 

Each of the companies in the United System operates as 
an independent unit. The operations of the United Sys¬ 
tem consist of air transportation over the following routes: 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc. —Route A.M. 18—2027 miles 
—Chicago, Illinois to San Francisco, California via Omaha, 
Nebraska and Salt Lake City, L^tah. Extension: Omaha, 
Nebraska to Watertown, South Dakota—259 miles. 

Route A.M. 30 (part thereof sublet from American Air¬ 
ways, Inc.)—239 miles—Omaha, Nebraska to Kansas City, 
Kansas. 

13 National Air Transport , Inc. —Route A. M. 3— 
1048 miles—Chicago, Illinois to Dallas, Texas, via 
Kansas City, Kansas; Wichita, Kansas; Oklahoma City, 
Oklahoma; and via Kansas City, Kansas;Tulsa,Oklahoma, 
including Ponca City, Oklahoma to Tulsa, Oklahoma, and 
Oklahoma City to Tulsa. 

Route A. M. 17—736 miles—New York City to Chicago 
via Cleveland. 

Pacific Air Transport. —Route A. M. 8—1238 miles— 
Seattle, Washington to San Diego, California via San Fran¬ 
cisco, California. 

Varney Air Lines, Inc .—Route A. M. 5—1017 miles—Salt 
Lake City, Utah to Portland, Seattle and Spokane, Wash¬ 
ington, via Boise, Idaho. 

19. The United System has flown over 65 million miles, 
a greater mileage than has been flown by any other air 
transportation system. Of this total miles approximately 
half were flown at night. It is generally considered to be 
the most efficient air transport system in the world. It has 
a record of completing about 96 per cent of its scheduled 
trips. The United System carried air mail in an amount 



JAMES A. FAKLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


11 


over three million pounds per annum. This is ovejr 40 per 
cent of the total air mail in the United States. Inj accord¬ 
ance with the desires of the United States Government, 
United Air Lines, Inc., has built up its passenger business 
from 25,000 passengers in 1930 to over 160,000 In 1933. 
The United Air Lines, Inc., has a total investment jin land, 
buildings, etc., of over $2,750,000, and a total investment in 
flying equipment of over $4,500,000. The capital pnd sur¬ 
plus of United Air Lines, Inc., is over $8,000,000. Payments 
by the United States for carrying air mail have steadily de¬ 
creased from a total of about $8,000,000 in 1931 tcj a total 
of about $5,000,000 in 1933. During the last six mbnths of 
1933, United Air Lines, Inc., received for Carrying 
14 air mail an average of 1.6 mills per pound-mile. This 
is almost exactly the amount the Post Office [Depart¬ 
ment receives from stamp revenue for air mail. Tlicf United 
Svstem during the last six months of 1933 received about 

• ~ # I 

45% of its operating revenue in carrying mail and about 
52%% in carrying passengers, the balance being] mostly 
received from carrying express. The average speed of 
operation has been increased from 115 miles per (hour in 
1927 to over 170 miles per hour in 1933. The equipment 
of the United System is the best procurable. In purchas¬ 
ing such equipment, no price advantage is givep to the 
United System. United Air Lines, Inc., and its operating 
companies have never paid excessive salaries, apd have 
not paid any bonuses of any nature. The administrative 
costs have been less than half those of any other Compar¬ 
able air line. The affiliation of plaintiff with the United 
System has resulted in the development of a reliable and 
efficient air mail and passenger service over Routes A.M. 
3 and 17, has made available to plaintiff greater flying 
equipment and other facilities for emergency pericjds, and 
has thus fostered commercial aviation and the air mail 

i 

service. 

20. That on February 9, 1934, without giving nptice or 
opportunity for hearing to the plaintiff, defendantj James 
A. Farley, purporting to act in his official capacity as 
Postmaster General of the United States, but in reality act¬ 
ing individually, arbitrarily, and without any proper or 
adequate examination of the facts, capriciously add with¬ 
out any legal authority therefor, and acting outside and 
beyond the scope of the exercise of discretionary power 



12 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


granted him as Postmaster General by law, issued a writing 
purporting to be an order issued in his official capacity as 
Postmaster General, purporting to cancel the Plaintiff’s 
Route Certificates Nos. A.M. 3 and A.M. 17. A copy 
15 of this purported order is set forth below: 

February 9, 1934. 

“Pursuant to the authority vested in me by Section 3950, 
Revised Statutes of the United States, Act of June 8, 1872 
(39 United States Code, Section 432), and by virtue of the 
general powers of the Postmaster General, it is ordered 
that the following air mail contracts be, and they are hereby 
annulled effective midnight February 19, 1934, viz: 


Route 

number Contracts held by 

A.M. 1.American Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 2.... ,.American Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 3.National Air Transport, Inc. 

A.M. 4. . . . .Western Air Express, Inc. 

A.M. 5. Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

A.M. 8.Pacific Air Transport. 

A.M. 9..Northwest Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 9.i. ... Kohler Aviation Corporation. 

A.M. 11.j.Pennsylvania Airlines, Inc. 

A.M. 12..Western Air Express, Inc. 

A.M. 17.National Air Transport, Inc. 

A.M. 18..Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

A.M. 19.Eastern Air Transport, Inc. 

A.M. 20.American Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 21.American Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 22.American Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 23.American Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 24.American Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 26.National Parks Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 27.American Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 29.American Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 30.American Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 30..Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

A.M. 30..United States Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 33.American Airways, Inc. 

A.M. 34..Transcontinental and Western Air, Inc. 

(Signed) JAMES A. FARLEY, 

Postmaster General.’’ 





























JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 13 

21. On February 10, 1934, the plaintiff received from the 

defendant a telegram reading as follows: j 

16 “You are hereby notified that I have entered the 
following order pursuant to the authority vested in 
me by Section 3950 Revised Statutes of the United States, 
Act of June 8, 1872, and 39 U. S. Code Section 432, and by 
virtue of the general powers of the Postmaster General it 
is ordered that the following air mail contracts be and they 
are hereby annulled effective midnight February 19, 1934, 
viz, route certificates and contracts held by you hnd in¬ 
cluding contract air mail route Nos. 3 and 17. You are 
instructed to receive no mail for transportation hereafter 
that cannot reach its destination with the effective date of 
the order. 

JAMES A. FARLEY, 

r 

Postmaster General.” 

22. That since February 19, 1934, as a result bf such 
purported order as set forth in paragraph 20 hereof, the 
plaintiff has received no mail for transportation ^s pro¬ 
vided in its said Route Certificates Nos. 3 and 17. The plain¬ 
tiff alleges that the defendant Farley is attempting tp carry 
out such purported order, and the plaintiff is inforrped and 
believes that the defendant Farlev has issued instructions 
to the various Postmasters in the United States that plain¬ 
tiff’s route certificates have been cancelled and that po mail 
is to be delivered to it. 

23. That plaintiff since February 9, 1934 has duly filed 
with the Postmaster General its protests against his action 
in declaring that Route Certificates A.M. 3 and 17 wbre an¬ 
nulled, and plaintiff furthermore has notified the Post¬ 
master General that it has been and is at all times ready, 
able and willing to comply with all the terms and conditions 
of its said Route Certificates, to wit, as follows: 

(a) On February 16, 1934, plaintiff wrote a letter to de¬ 
fendant Farley, reading as follows: 

“February 16, 1934. 

The Honorable James A. Farley, 

Postmaster General, 

Washington, D. C. j 

Dear Mr. Postmaster General: 

Receipt is acknowledged of your letter of February 13, 
1934, enclosing copy of the order and the telegram 




14 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


17 therein referred to, by which order you have directed 
that Air Mail Contracts No. 3 and No. 17 be annulled 
effective February 19, 1934. 

As authority for your action, you appear to rely upon 
Section 432; of Title 39 of the United States Code, which 
provides for the annulment of mail contracts in certain 
eases of combinations or agreements to prevent bidding. 
We respectfully protest that this section furnishes no jus¬ 
tification for the action which you have taken in the case 
of this Company. We have at no time entered into any 
such combination or agreement. 

We have seen reference in the public press to the charge 
that contracts for the carriage of air mail were let pur¬ 
suant to collusive agreements reached at a so-called con¬ 
ference of air mail operators called at the direction of 
Postmaster General Walter F. Brown in the spring of 
1930. No such collusive agreement was made by us. In 
this connection, we call vour attention to the fact that the 
air mail contract covering this Company’s Route No. 3 was 
awarded under date of October 7, 1925, and that the con¬ 
tract covering Route No. 17 was awarded under date of 
April 2, 1927, in each case prior to the said conference and 
after competitive bidding in which this company was the 
lowest qualified bidder. No extension has ever been made 
of either of the said routes. 

Since your contemplated action would work irreparable 
damage to the Company, its employees and shareholders, 
we respectfully request that the order referred to be sus¬ 
pended until such time as opportunity shall have been had 
for a hearing, to which we believe you will recognize we are 
entitled as a matter both of right and of equity. 

Respectfullv vours, 

(Signed) ‘ * W. A. PATTERSON, 

President , 

National Air Transport , Inc.” 

(b) On February 16, 1934 plaintiff, together with the 
other three corporations affiliated with it, as hereinabove in 
paragraph 18 set forth, wrote a letter to defendant Farley 
setting forth the facts surrounding the initial letting of 
contracts to the several companies constituting the United 
Airlines. A copy of this letter is attached hereto and 
marked Exhibit “F.” 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AX INDIVIDUAL. 


15 


(c) On February 19, 1934 plaintiff sent the following 
telegram to defendant Farley: 

18 ‘ 4 Chicago, Illinois! 

February 19, 1934. 

Honorable James A. Farley, 

Postmaster General, 

Washington, D. C. 


This company is ready comma able and willing to fly 
planes and carry mail as required by air mail rou^e cer¬ 
tificates for routes three and seventeen stop respdctfully 
request you issue appropriate instructions to postmasters 
to deliver air mail to us as heretofore. 

NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, D}C.” 

(d) On March 7, 1934 plaintiff, together with thJ three 
affiliated companies as in subdivision (b) above mentioned, 
having received no reply to any of the aforesaid coplmuni- 
cations, wrote defendant Farley another letter reading 
as follows: 

“New York City,! 

March 7, 1|934. 

Honorable James A. Farley, 

Postmaster General of the United States, 

Washington, D. C. j 

Dear Sir: j 

On the 16th day of February, 1934, we wrote you, getting 
forth the facts surrounding the initial letting of coijtracts 
to the several companies constituting the United Air ^Lines. 

In that letter, to which we have received no reply, we 
asserted our belief that you had been misinformed coiicern- 
ing our participation in the so-called conference of aip mail 
operators, held at the Post Office Department, on the 19th 
day of May, 1930, and requested an opportunity of meet¬ 
ing with you in order that we might fully advise you of our 

position. j 

In the three weeks intervening, since writing you, certain 
events have made our situation more critical. We are now 
losing in excess of $250,000 a month, a great number of 
employes are being retained unnecessarily if we alre no 
longer to carry the air mail, and, in addition, we have been 



16 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


refused full payment due for services rendered during the 
months of Januarv and Februarv. 

V •» 

From this it is apparent that in fairness to our stock¬ 
holders and to our employes, we must speedily determine 
our course of action. We again respectfully request the 
opportunity of presenting to you all the facts relative to 
our air mail contracts. 

19 Yours verv trulv, 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, 

VARNEY AIR LINES, INC., 

Bv UNITED AIR LINES, INC., 

(Signed) P. G. JOHNSON, 

Pres. 

24. Plaintiff is advised and alleges that the purported 
order and telegram set forth in paragraphs 20 and 21 
hereof are illegal, void and beyond the power and jurisdic¬ 
tion of the defendant Farlev to make, in that: 

(a) The plaintiff has not violated any law, regulation 
or order pertaining to the postal service; 

(b) The plaintiff has complied with all of the terms or 
conditions of the said route certificates; 

(c) The defendant Farley has no power or authority 
under the laws of the United States relating to the postal 
service, and particularly under Revised Statutes, Section 
3950, to annul or cancel said route certificates; 

(d) The provisions of Revised Statutes, Section 3950, 
are not applicable to route certificates issued for carrying 
air mail; 

(e) Such route certificates can be annulled only by proper 
judicial proceeding for that purpose; 

(f) In any event, such route certificates cannot be can¬ 
celled or annulled without giving to the plaintiff proper 
notice and opportunity to be heard and present evidence 
in refutation of any reasons which may be given for such 

proposed cancellation or annulment. 

20 (g) The action of Farley was otherwise not in ac¬ 
cordance with law. 

23. That the plaintiff is being deprived of its property 
without due process of law in violation of the Fifth Amend¬ 
ment to the Constitution of the United States in that it has 



I 

I 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. j 17 

I 

not been notified of or given an opportunity to be heard 
as to whether its route certificates should be cancelled or 
whether it has violated any of the rules, regulations or 
orders of the Postmaster General, and in that the action 
of the Postmaster General in purporting to annul the route 
certificates of the plaintiff is wholly arbitrary, capricious, 
illegal and without authoritv or color of law. 

26. Plaintiff further alleges that upon informatjon and 
belief the defendant Farley intends to prevent the plain¬ 
tiff from bidding on any mail contract or carriage for a 
period of five years as a penalty for an alleged violation 
of Revised Statutes, Section 3950, and that such preven¬ 
tion would be illegal and contrary to the Constitution and 
laws of the United States and would deprive the plaintiff of 
its liberty and of a valuable right and cause it irreparable 
damage for which the plaintiff has no adequate remedy at 
law. It will be forced to discharge its pilots, mechanics 
and other employees, since without the revenue derived 
from the said route certificates the plaintiff cannot operate 
except with irreparable damage to the plaintiff hnd its 
stockholders. The purported cancellation of its ropte cer¬ 
tificates has caused and will continue to cause the plaintiff 
to be deprived of its property in that that property is with¬ 
out substantial value except in connection with its business 
of transporting passengers and air mail. Such purported 
cancellation will compel the plaintiff to abrogate many con¬ 
tracts, leases and obligations which it has incurred, 

21 and such abrogation will result in irreparable injury 
to the plaintiff and many other persons. Suc*h pur¬ 
ported cancellation of its route certificates has caused and 
will continue to cause damage to the plaintiff which will 
be incapable of being measured and adjudicated at law. 

27. The plaintiff is without a clear, adequate and speedy 
remedy at law, and only by the injunctive process of this 
Court can it be fully protected in the enjoyment of it^ prop¬ 
erty rights under the route certificates and under the Con¬ 
stitution and laws of the United States and in the protec¬ 
tion of its business, property and good will. 

Wherefore, inasmuch as the plaintiff is without remedy 
except in a Court of Equity and to the end that it may 
obtain from this Court the relief to which it is by right 
and equity entitled, the plaintiff respectfully prays. 

2—6288a 



16 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


(A) That the defendant be directed to answer this bill 
of complaint, but not under oath, the answer under oath 
beins: hereby expressly waived. 

(B) That the defendant, his agents, subordinates and 
employees and each of them be enjoined and restrained 
from in any manner enforcing or attempting to enforce the 
purported order of the defendant Farley, dated February 
9, 1934, purporting to annul the plaintiff’s Route Certifi¬ 
cates A.M. 3 and A.M. 17. 

(C) That the defendant Farley be commanded and di¬ 
rected by this Court to revoke so much of his purported 
order of February 9, 1934, set forth in Paragraph 20 
hereof, as relates to Routes A.M. Nos. 3 and 17. 

(D) That defendant Farley be enjoined and restrained 
from imposing or attempting to impose any penalty upon 

plaintiff by reason of the said purported order. 

22 (E) iThat the plaintiff have judgment against de¬ 

fendant Farley for all such damages as, upon the 
determination of this cause, shall be found by this Court to 
have been caused to plaintiff by the unauthorized, unlaw¬ 
ful and arbitrary acts of defendant Farlev, herein com- 
plained of. 

(F) That the plaintiff have such other and further re¬ 
lief as to the Court may seem just and equitable in the 
premises. 

(G) And plaintiff further prays that a hearing and de¬ 
termination of this suit be had as soon as the defendant 
has been serviced and given a reasonable opportunity to 
answer this suit, and that upon final hearing the defendant, 
his agents, subordinates and employees, and each of them, 
be enjoined and restrained perpetually as hereinbefore 
prayed. Plaintiff also prays that a writ of subpoena issue 
herein directed to the above named defendant commanding 
him on a day certain to appear and answer this bill of 
complaint. 

NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
Bv WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, 

, Its Attorney. 

WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, 

Attorney for Plaintiff , 

1010 Shoreham Building , 

Washington y D. C. 

FREDERICK W. JACKSON, 

Of Counsel . 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


19 


Verification. 

William J. Donovan, being first duly sworn, un^ier oath 
deposes and says: 

That he is the attorney for the complainant abovi-named. 
The said complainant is a foreign corporation and has no 
officer or agent in the District of Columbia; therefore he 
makes this verification for and on behalf of said com¬ 
plainant, and as its said attorney; that he has f*ead the 
foregoing bill of complaint and knows the bontents 
23 thereof; that his knowledge of the matters alleged 
in saiZ bill is derived from personal investigation of 
the facts, conferences with officers and employee^ of the 
complainant corporation, examination of the contracts, 
route certificates and correspondence between the com¬ 
plainant and officers of the Post Office Department; that he 


verily believes the facts in the foregoing bill of complaint 
to be true. 

WILLIAM J. DONOVAN. 

Subscribed and sworn to before me this 16th day of 
April, 1934. 

RICHARD A. MAHAft, 

Notary Public, D. C. 


24 


Exhibit “A”. 


Contract for Air Mail Service. 


Route No. C.A.M. 3. 

Contractor’s Address: National Air Transport, Inc., 
310 South Michigan Avenue, Chicago, Illinois. 

Route: Chicago, Ill., by Moline, Ill., St. Joseph, Mo., 
Kansas City, Mo., Wichita, Kans., and Oklahoma City, 
Okla., to Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, and return. 

Rate of Pay: Eighty (80) per cent of the revenue. 

This article of contract, made the Seventh dav of Octo- 
ber nineteen hundred and twenty-five between the United 
States of America (acting in this behalf by the Postmaster 
General) and National Air Transport, Inc., Chicago, Ill. 
Contractor. 

Witnesseth that whereas National Air Transport, Inc. 
has been accepted according to law as contractor for trans- 



20 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., <S:C. VS. 


porting the mails on route Xo. C.A.M. 3 from Chicago, 
Ill., by Moline, Ill., St. Joseph, Mo., Kansas City, Mo., 
Wichita, Elans., and Oklahoma City, Okla., to Dallas and 
Fort Worth, Texas, and return, under an advertisement 
issued bv the Postmaster General on July 15, 1925 for such 
service, which advertisement is hereby referred to and 
made by such reference a part of this contract at the rate 
of Eighty (80) per cent of the revenue until terminated. 

Now, therefore, the said contractor undertakes, cove¬ 
nants, and agrees with the United States of America, 

First. To carrv the mails offered in safe and suitable 
aircraft on the route described and on the schedule set 
forth by the Postmaster General, the contractor to receive 
and deliver the mails at the designated field and point on 
said field as approved by the Postmaster General. 

Second. To carry said mails in a safe and secure man- 
ner, free from wet or other injury. 

25 Third. To be accountable and answerable in dam¬ 
ages for the Person to whom the contractor shall 
commit the care and transportation of the mails and his 
faithful performance of the obligations assumed herein 
and those imposed by law; not to commit the care or trans¬ 
portation of the mails to any person under sixteen years of 
age, nor to any person undergoing a sentence of imprison¬ 
ment at hard labor imposed by a court having criminal 
jurisdiction, nor to any person not authorized by law to be 
concerned in,contracts for carrying the mails. 

Fourth. For which service when performed and evidence 
thereof shall have been filed with the Postmaster General, 
the said contractor is to be paid by the United States at 
the rate specified above, payment to be made monthly and 
as soon after the close of each month as accounts can be 
adjusted and settled, said pay to be subject, however, to be 
reduced or discontinued by the Postmaster General as 
hereinafter stipulated, or to be suspended in case of 
delinquency. 

Fifth. It is hereby also stipulated and agreed that de¬ 
ductions in pay will be made for suffering the mails to 
become wet, injured, or destroyed, or when a grade of 
service is rendered inferior to that stipulated in the con¬ 
tract, or for the loss of or depredation upon the mails in 
the custody of the contractor or his agent, provided the loss 
is occasioned by their fault. 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AX INDIVIDUAL. 21 

i 

I 

Sixth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed by the 

contractor that the Postmaster General mav annul the con- 

.» 

tract or impose forfeitures, in his discretion, for Repeated 
failures or for failure to perform service according to con¬ 
tract; for violating the Postal Laws and Regulations; for 
subletting service without the consent of the Postmaster 
General, or assigning or transferring the contract; for 
combining to prevent others from bidding for the perform¬ 
ance of postal service, and such annulment shall not im¬ 
pair the right of the Department to claim damages from 
the contractor and his sureties. 

Seventh. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed that 
the contract may be terminated whenever in the Judgment 
of the Postmaster General the interests of the Postlal Serv¬ 
ice shall so require, upon serving notice upon (he con¬ 
tractor at least 45 days prior to such termination. (Elimi¬ 
nated.) 

Eighth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed that 
no Member or Delegate to Congress shall be admitted to 
any share or part of this contract or agreement, or any 
benefit to arise therefrom. 

Ninth. That at anv time during the continuance of this 

► © 

contract the Postmaster General may require new br addi¬ 
tional sureties upon the bond hereto annexed, ifj in his 
opinion, such sureties are necessary for the proper protec¬ 
tion of the interests of the United States; and that the con¬ 
tractor shall furnish such sureties to the satisfaction of 
the Postmaster General within ten days after notice so to 
do; and in default thereof this contract may be annulled 
at the option of the Postmaster General. 

Tenth. The contractor expressly warrants that he has 
employed no third person to solicit or obtain this Contract 
in his behalf, or to cause or procure the same to be obtained 
upon compensation in any way contingent, ip whole 
26 or in part, upon such procurement; and that he has 
not paid, or promised or agreed to pay, to apy third 
person, in consideration of such procurement, in Compen¬ 
sation for services in connection therewith, any brokerage, 
commission, or percentage upon the amount receivkble by 
him hereunder, and that he has not, in estimating the con¬ 
tract price demanded by him included any sum by reason 
of any such brokerage, commission, or percentage, and 
that all money payable to him hereunder is free from obli- 



22 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


gation to any other person for services rendered, or sup¬ 
posed to have been rendered in the procurement of this 
contract. He further agrees that any breach of this war¬ 
ranty shall constitute adequate cause for the annulment of 
this contract by the United States, and that the United 
States may retain to its own use from any sums due or to 
become due thereunder an amount equal to any brokerage, 
commission, or percentage so paid, or agreed to be paid. 

Eleventh. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed by 
the contractor that this contract is subject to all the condi¬ 
tions imposed by law and by the several acts of Congress 
relating to post offices and post roads and the conditions 
stated in the advertisement pursuant to which this contract 
is made. 

In witness thereof, the Postmaster General has executed 
this contract in behalf of the United States and caused the 
seal of the Post Office Department to be affixed thereto, and 
the said contractor has hereunto set his hand and seal. 

Signed, sealed, and delivered in behalf of the United 
States this 7th dav of November, 1925. 

‘ UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
By HARRY S. NEW, 

Postmaster General . 

Witness to signature of Postmaster General: 

J. E. DIX. 

Signed this 5th dav of November, 1925. 

NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
By HOWARD E. COFFIN, 

President. 

Attest: 

CARL B. FRITSCHE, Sec’y. 

Witnesses to signature of Contractor: 

GRACE T. NICHOLS. 

VIRGINIA E. LA GRAVE. 

27 Certificate of Oath by the Contractor. 

(Required by Law.) 

I, the undersigned, being President of the National Air 
Transport, Inc., being employed in the care, custody, and 
conveyance of the mail as contractor on the route named 
in the foregoing contract, do solemnly swear that I will 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 23 

faithfully perform all duties required of me, andj abstain 
from everything forbidden by the laws in relatioki to the 
establishment of Post Offices and Post Roads within the 
United States; and that I will honestly and truly account 
for and pay over any money belonging to the sai<ji United 
States which may come into my possession or control. 

And I also further swear that I will support t|he Con¬ 
stitution of the United States. So help me Godl 

HOWARD E. COFFIN, 

Contractor. 

Sworn before the subscriber a Notary Public, District 
of Columbia this 5th day of November, 1925, anjl I also 
certify that the person named is not a postmaster, Assistant 
postmaster, or a clerk employed in a post office, noi| a mem¬ 
ber of the immediate family of a postmaster or assistant 
postmaster, and is, to the best of my knowledge ai^d belief, 
above the age of twentv-one vears. 

E. MARJORIE HAMMERLEY. 

Approved as to form: 

W. E. KELLY, 

Solicitor. 

Approved as to fact: 

W. IRVING GLOVEfr, 

Second Assistant Postmaster General. 

28 Amendment to Existing Contract for Air M|ail 

Service. 

This agreement entered into by and between National 
Air Transport, Inc., of Chicago, Illinois, and th^ United 
States of America (acting in this behalf by the Postmaster 
General). 

Witnesseth, that whereas, the aforesaid National Air 
Transport, Inc., of Chicago, Illinois, entered int<j> a con¬ 
tract with the United States of America under date of 
November 7, 1925, for the transportation of mail| by air¬ 
craft on route No. C.A.M. 3 from Chicago, Ill., by! Moline, 
Ill., St. Joseph, Mo., Kansas City, Mo., Wichita, K<jns., and 
Oklahoma City, Okla., to Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, 
and return, under an advertisement issued by the Post¬ 
master General on July 15, 1925, and, 

Whereas, under an Act of Congress approved June 3, 
1926, it is provided that existing contracts for the tjansmis- 




24 


NATIONAL AIK TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


sion of mail by aircraft may be amended by the written con¬ 
sent of the contractor and the Postmaster General so as 
to provide for a fixed rate per pound including equipment. 

Now, therefore, it is hereby agreed and understood by 
the parties hereto for and in consideration of the mutual 
advantages accruing to each of said parties, that the afore¬ 
said existing contract between the said parties is hereby 
amended in accordance with the terms applicable thereto 
as provided in the Act cited, the rate of pay being herein 
and hereby fixed at $3.00 per pound including equipment. 

In witness >vhereof, the Postmaster General has executed 
this amendment to contract in behalf of the United States 
and caused the seal of the Post Office Department to be 
affixed thereto, and the said contractor has hereunto set 
his hand and seal. 

Signed, sealed, and delivered in behalf of the United 
States this 20th dav of June, 1926. 

‘UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
Bv JOHN H. BARTLETT, 

Acting Postmaster General. 

Witness to Signature of Postmaster General: 

SYLVIA E. DENNY. 

Signed this eleventh day of June, 1926. 

I NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
By PAUL HENDERSON, 

Contractor , General Manager. 

Witnesses to signature of Contractor: 

WM. P. MacCRACKEN, JR. 

GRACE T. NICHOLS. 

Approved as to form: 

; HORACE J. DONNELLY, 

Solicitor. 

Approved as to fact: 

W. IRVING GLOVER, 
Second Assistant Postmaster General. 

29 Exhibit “B.” 

Contract for Airmail Service. 

Route No. C.A.M. 17. 

This article of contract, made the 2nd day of April, 1927, 
between the United States of America (acting in this be- 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 25 . 

’ | 

half by the Postmaster General) and National Air Trans¬ 
port (Inc.), 

Witnesseth, that whereas National Air Transport (Inc.), 
has been accepted according to law as contractor for trans¬ 
porting the mails on route No. C.A.M. 17, from New York, 
X. Y., via Cleveland, Ohio, to Chicago, Ill., and return, 
under an advertisement issued by the Postmaster General 
on March 8, 1927, for such service, which advertisement 
is hereby referred to and made by such reference a part 
of this contract, at the rate of $1.24 per pound, up (o 1,500 
pounds, each calendar day, and sliding scale based on 
increased poundage as set forth in the advertisement, for 
a period not exceeding four years from starting date, 
specified in order of Postmaster General, which date shall 
not be later than six months after award of this contract. 

Now, therefore, the said contractor undertakes, cove¬ 
nants and agrees with the United States of America— 

First. To carry the mails offered with due celerity, cer- 

taintv and securitv, and in safe and suitable aircraft on 

the route described and on the schedule set forth bv the 

* 

Postmaster General, the contractor to receive and deliver 
the mails at the designated fields and point on said fields 
as approved by the Postmaster General. 1 

Second. To carry said mails in a safe and secure man¬ 
ner, free from wet or other injury. 

Third. To be accountable and answerable in damages for 
the person to whom the contractor shall commit the care 
and transportation of the mails and his faithful perform¬ 
ance of the obligations assumed herein and those imposed 
by law; not to commit the care or transportation of the 
mails to any person under 16 years of age, nor to any 
person undergoing a sentence of imprisonment af hard 
labor imposed by a court having criminal jurisdiction, nor 
to any person not authorized by law to be concerned in 
contracts for carrying the mails. j 

Fourth. For which service when performed and evidence 
thereof shall have been filed with the Postmaster General, 
the said contractor is to be paid by the United States at 
the rate specified above, payments to be made monthly and 
as soon after the close of each month as accounts can be 
adjusted and settled, said pay to be subject, however, to be 
reduced or discontinued by the Postmaster General as 



26 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 

hereinafter stipulated, or to be suspended in case of de¬ 
linquency. 

Fifth. It is hereby also stipulated and agreed that deduc¬ 
tions in pay will be made for suffering the mails to become 
wet, injured, or destroyed, or when a grade of serv- 
30 ice is rendered inferior to that stipulated in the 
contract, or for the loss of, or depredation upon the 
mails, in the custody of the contractor or his agent, pro¬ 
vided the loss is occasioned bv their fault. 

Sixth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed by the 
contractor that the Postmaster General mav annul the con- 
tract or impose forfeitures, in his discretion, for repeated 
failures or for failure to perform service according to con¬ 
tract; for violating the Postal Laws and Regulations; for 
subletting service without the consent of the Postmaster 
General, or assigning or transferring the contract; for 
combining to prevent others from bidding for the perform¬ 
ance of postal service, and such annulment shall not impair 
the right of the department to claim damages from the con¬ 
tractor and his sureties. 

Seventh. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed that 
this contract may be terminated whenever in the judgment 
of the Postmaster General, the interests of the Postal Serv¬ 
ice shall so require, upon serving notice upon the contractor 
at least one year prior to such termination, provided, that 
in case of such discontinuance of service, as a full indem¬ 
nity to the contractor, one month’s extra pay, based on the 
average pavi for the preceding 6-month’s period, or full 
period of service if less than six months, shall be allowed. 

Eighth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed upon 
that no Member of or Delegate to Congress shall be ad¬ 
mitted to any share or part of this contract or agreement, 
or anv benefit to arise therefrom. 

Ninth. That at any time during the continuance of this 
contract the Postmaster General may require new or addi¬ 
tional sureties upon the bond hereto annexed, if, in his 
opinion, such sureties are necessary for the proper protec¬ 
tion of the interests of the United States; and that the 
contractor shall furnish such sureties to the satisfaction of 
the Postmaster General within 10 days after notice so to do, 
and in default thereof this contract may be annulled, at 
the option of the Postmaster General. 



JAMES A. FABLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


27 


Tenth. The contractor expressly warrants that he has 
employed no third person to solicit or obtain this contract 
in his behalf or to cause or procure the same to be obtained 
upon compensation in any way contingent, in whole or in 
part, upon such procurement; and that he has not jbaid, or 
promised or agreed to pay, to any third person, in consid¬ 
eration of such procurement or in compensation forjservice 
in connection therewith, any brokerage, commission or per¬ 
centage upon the amount receivable by him hereunder, and 
that he has not, in estimating the contract price deilnanded 
by him, included any sum by reason of any such brokerage, 
commission, or percentage, and that all money payable to 
him hereunder is free from obligation to any other person 
for services rendered, or supposed to have been rendered, 
in tlie procurement of this contract. He further agrees 
that any breach of this warranty shall constitute adequate 

cause for the annulment of this contract bv the United 

•/ 

States and that the United States may retain to its own use 
from any sums due or to become due thereunder, an imount 
equal to any brokerage, commission or percentage sd paid, 
or agreed to be paid. 

Eleventh. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed by 
the contractor that this contract is subject to all the condi¬ 
tions imposed by law, and by the several acts of Congress 
relating to post offices and post roads, and the conditions 
stated in the advertisement pursuant to whiih this 
31 contract is made. j 

Twelfth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed 
that this contract may, in the discretion of the Postmaster 
General, be continued in force beyond its express teiyns for 
a period not exceeding six months until a new contract with 
the same or other contractors shall be made by the Post¬ 
master General. 

Thirteenth. In view of the fact that the payment to the 
contractor includes the weight of the equipment as well 
as the mail, it is stipulated and agreed the department will 
not pay for the transportation over this route of any inter¬ 
company mail addressed to the contractor or his Agents 
and pertaining to company business, nor will the depart¬ 
ment pay for any parcels carried over this route consigned 
to or for the use of the contractor. 

Fourteenth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed 
that the distances for purposes of computation of payment 
to the contractor shall be considered as from center of city 



28 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 

to center of city (designated as stops on the route) in an 
air line. 

Fifteenth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed that 
whenever an existing stop is discontinued, or an additional 
stop added, in accordance with the provisions as set forth 
in this contract, the distance over the route will be restated 
and payment for the units of 100 miles or fraction thereof 
in addition to the first 1,000 miles will be made on the same 
basis as before. Where the distance formerly was less than 
1,000 miles, the rate for each 100 miles or fraction thereof 
in excess of 1,000 miles under the restatement shall be in 
the same ratio as the original bid was to the maximum 
allowed by law. 

Sixteenth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed that 
the mail compartment of planes used in the transportation 
of mail, designated as such by the Post Office Department, 
must meet with the approval of the Postmaster General, in 
so far as location, size, and construction is concerned. 

In witness whereof the Postmaster General has executed 
this contract in behalf of the United States and caused the 
seal of the Post Office Department to be affixed thereto, and 
the said contractor has hereunto set his hand — seal. The 
typewritten changes in the form of advertisement were 
made before this contract was signed. 

Signed, sealed and delivered in behalf of the United 
States this 2nd dav of April, 1927. 

* UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
By HARRY S. NEW, 

Postmaster General. 

Witness to signature of Postmaster General: 

W. IRVING GLOVER. 

! NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT (INC.), 
CHAS. L. LAWRENCE, 

1 Vice-President. 

Witness to signature to contractor: 

CHESTER W. CUTHELL. 

C. W. KEYS. 

32 Certificate of Oath by the Contractor. 

I, the undersigned, being employed in the care, custody, 
and conveyance of the mail as contractor on the route 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


29 


named in the foregoing contract, do solemnly swear that I 
will faithfully perform all duties required of me, ajnd ab¬ 
stain from everything forbidden by the laws in relation to 
the establishment of post offices and post roads within the 
United States; and that I will honestly and truly abcount 
for and pay over any money belonging to the said tJnited 
States which may come into my possession or control. 

And I also further swear that I will support the 
tion of the United States, so help me God. 

NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT 
(INC.), 

(Signed) CHARLES L. LAWRENCE, 

Vice President. 

i 

i 

Sworn before the subscriber a notary public, St^te of 
New York, this 2nd day of April, 1927, and I also certify 
that the person named is not a postmaster, assistant' post¬ 
master, or a clerk employed in a post office, nor a member 
of the immediate family of a postmaster or assistant) post¬ 
master, and is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, 
above the age of twenty-one years. 

(Signed) ' ALBERT C. ANDERSON, ! 

Notary Public f New York Couiity. 

Approved as to form. ' 

(Signed) HORACE J. DONNELLY, 

Solicitor. 

I 

Approved as to fact. 

(Signed) W. IRVING GLOVER, 

Second Assistant Postmaster General. 

33 Exhibit “C”. 

I 

Route Certificate Air Mail Service 

i 

Route: Chicago, Illinois, by way of Moline, Illinoip, St. 
Joseph, Missouri, Kansas City, Missouri, Wichita, Kansas, 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and such other desigiiated 
points to Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, and return. 

Carrier: National Air Transport, Incorporated, of Chi¬ 
cago, Illinois. 

Whereas, Section 2 of the Act of Congress, approved on 
the 29th day of April, 1930, entitled an “Act to Amend the 




30 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


Air Mail Act of February 2, 1925, as Amended by the Acts 
of June 3, 1926, and May 17, 1928, Further to Encourage 
Commercial Aviation,” is as follows: 

“The Postmaster General may, if in his judgment the 
public interest will be promoted thereby, upon the surren¬ 
der of anv air mail contract, issue in substitution therefor 
a route certificate for a period of not exceeding ten years 
from the date service started under such contract to any 
contractor or subcontractor who has satisfactorily operated 
an air mail route for a period of not less than two years, 
which certificate shall provide that the holder thereof shall 
have the right, so long as he complies with all rules, regu¬ 
lations, and orders that mav be issued by the Postmaster 
General for meeting the needs of the Postal Service and 
adjusting mail operations to the advances in the art of fly¬ 
ing and passenger transportation, to carry air mail over 
the route set out in the certificate or anv modification 
thereof at rates of compensation to be fixed from time to 
time, at least annually, by the Postmaster General, and he 
shall publish in his annual report his reasons for the con¬ 
tinuance or the modification of any rates; Provided , That 
such rates shall not exceed $1.25 per mile. Such certificate 
may be cancelled at any time for willful neglect on the part 
of the holder to carrv out anv rules, regulations or orders 
made for his guidance, notice of such intended cancellation 
to be given in writing bv the Postmaster General and fortv- 

five davs allowed the holder in which to show cause whv 
• « 

the certificate should not be cancelled.” 

34 And whereas, the National Air Transport, Incor¬ 
porated, of Chicago, Illinois, a corporation duly or¬ 
ganized and existing under the laws of the State of Dela¬ 
ware, hereinafter called the Carrier, on the seventh day of 
November, 1925, duly entered into a contract with the 
United States to transport the air mail by aircraft on a 
route from Chicago, Illinois, by way of Moline, Illinois, St. 
Joseph, Missouri, Kansas City, Missouri, Wichita, Kansas, 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and such other designated 
points to Dallas and Fort Worth, Texas, and return, the 
said contract having been extended pursuant to the terms 
thereof for a period of six months and presently being in 
full force and effect; 



I 


JAMES A. FAELEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 31 

7 I 

I 

And whereas, the said Carrier has satisfactorily operated 
said air route for a period of not less than two y^ars, to 
wit, from the twelfth day of May, 1926, and is willing to 
surrender the said air mail contract and accept in substi¬ 
tution therefor a route certificate as provided in Section 2 
of the Act of Congress approved the 29th day of April, 
1930; ' | 

And whereas, in the judgment of the Postmaster General, 
the public interest will be promoted by the issuance to said 
Carrier of a route certificate in substitution for sa}d con¬ 
tract ; j 

Now therefore, pursuant to the authority in me vested by 
the provisions of said Act, I hereby certify that sa^d Na¬ 
tional Air Transport, Incorporated, of Chicago, Illinois, 
shall have the right, so long as it complies with all rules, 
regulations, and orders that may be issued by the Post¬ 
master General for meeting the needs of the Postal Service 
and adjusting mail operations to advances in the art of fly¬ 
ing and passenger transportation, to carry air may over 
the route hereinafter set out or anv modification thereof, 
at rates of compensation fixed herein, or to be fixed from 
time to time, at least annually, by the Postmaster General, 
provided that such rates shall not exceed $1.25 per mile for 
a period ending not more than ten years from the 
35 date of beginning service under said contract, to wit, 
on the fifth day of April, 1936, subject to the follow¬ 
ing terms and conditions: 

I 

Terms and Conditions. 

j 

1. The issuance of this certificate by the Postmastef- Gen¬ 
eral and its acceptance by the Carrier as hereinafter pro¬ 
vided shall be deemed a full mutual release of the tJnited 
States and the said Carrier from all the terms, conditions, 
and obligations of the said mail contract hereinbefore re¬ 
ferred to, dated the fifth day of November, 1925, from 
the date of the acceptance of this certificate except com¬ 
pensation due for service performed prior to the date 
hereof, and upon the acceptance thereof the said Carrier 
shall surrender the said contract to the United States. 

2. The route over which the Carrier shall have the right 
to carry air mail shall be from Chicago, Illinois, bf way 
of Moline, Illinois, St. Joseph, Missouri, Kansas City, Mis- 

| 

i 



32 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


souri, Wichita, Kansas, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, and 
such other designated points to Dallas and Fort Worth, 
Texas, and return, including any extension or other modi¬ 
fication of said route that may be made as hereinafter pro¬ 
vided. 

3. Upon 60 days’ notice to the Carrier, the Postmaster 
General from time to time may modify said route by an ex¬ 
tension or extensions thereof, including lateral extensions 
or consolidations, and prescribe the schedule therefor in¬ 
cluding the stops thereon, and determine the mileage upon 
which the compensation of the Carrier is to be based. 

4. For the purpose of this certificate the distance between 
the terminal points of the route hereinbefore prescribed 
shall be deemed to be 1072 miles. 

5. The ancraft employed by the Carrier in the service 
authorized hereby shall be manufactured in the United 

States. They shall be of modern design, airworthy, 
36 and suitable for the service prescribed, the design 
and capacity of such aircraft, and the location, size 
and construction of the mail compartments therein, shall 
be subject to the approval of the Postmaster General. 

The following service may be prescribed by the Post¬ 
master General: 

A. —Night Mail Service. 

B. —Night Mail & Passenger Service. 

C. —Dav Mail Service. 

m 

D. —Day Mail & Passenger Service. 

6. Until and including the thirty-first day of December, 
1930, or until otherwise directed bv the Postmaster General, 
the Carrier shall provide the following service over said 
route: 

1. One flight by a plane having not less than 47 cubic feet 
of space for 750 pounds of air mail departing from Chicago 
at 6:10 a. m., daily, to be classified as Class C service, and 
payment made therefor at the rate of eighty and one-half 
cents per mile, until otherwise ordered. 

2. One flight by a plane having not less than 47 cubic feet 
of space for 750 pounds of air mail, departing from Dallas, 
Texas, 9:30 a. m., daily, to be classified as Class C service, 
and payment made therefor at the rate of eighty and one- 
half cents per mile, until otherwise ordered. 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AX INDIVIDUAL. 


33 


3. One flight by a plane having not less than 47 cubic feet 
of space for 750 pounds of air mail, departing from Dallas 
at 7:30 p. m. daily, to be classified as Class A service, and 
payment made therefor at the rate of ninety-five hnd one- 
half cents per mile, until otherwise ordered. 

4. One flight by a plane having not less than 47 cpbic feet 
of space for 750 pounds of air mail, departing from! Chicago 
at 8:00 p. m., daily, to be classified as Class A service, and 
payment made therefor at the rate of ninety-five and one- 

half cents per mile, until otherwise ordered. 

: 

! 

7. Upon 60 days notice to the Carrier, the Postmaster 
General may increase, diminish, or modify the service pre¬ 
scribed, and make such adjustments in the compensation of 
the Carrier as he may deem proper. 

8. The Carrier shall transport the mails of tln^ United 
States offered for carriage over the route hereinbefore set 
out with due celerity, in a safe and secure manner, firee from 
wet or other injury, receiving and delivering the same at 
fields and points therein designated on schedules prescribed 

bv the Postmaster General. 

37 9. Pavments shall be made to the Carrier monthlv 

•> l * 

upon evidence that the service authorized hejreby has 
been well and faithfully performed in accordance with the 
provisions hereof. 

10. The Carrier shall keep and maintain an accurate sys¬ 
tem of accounting in accordance with regulations pre¬ 
scribed bv the Postmaster General. These accouhts shall 

•/ 

include a record of all obligations, investments, expendi¬ 
tures, receipts and earnings from any source whatsoever, 
and shall be subject at all reasonable times to inspection and 
audit by the Post Office Department. The Carrier shall 
furnish to the Postmaster General such information regard¬ 
ing its accounts and operations as he may from tim^ to time 
require. 

11. The Carrier shall not directly, or indirectly, promote 
the use of the air mail over the route hereinbefor^ set out, 
or any other air mail route except in accordance w^th regu¬ 
lations prescribed by the Postmaster General. 

12. This certificate is issued upon the express conditions 
that the said Carrier will hold itself subject to all the con¬ 
ditions imposed by the several Acts of Congress relating to 

3—6288a 



34 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


the Air Mail Service and to all the provisions of the law re¬ 
lating to Post Offices and the Postal Service generally, inso- 
far as they are applicable to the Air Mail Service; that no 
Member of or Delegate to Congress shall be admitted to 
any share or part of the benefits accruing to it hereunder; 
and that it has not employed a third person to solicit or ob¬ 
tain the same, or to cause or procure the same to be obtained 
upon compensation in any way contingent, in whole or in 
part, upon such procurement; and that it has not paid, or 
promised or agreed to pay, to any third person, in con¬ 
sideration of such procurement, or in compensation for 
service in connection therewith, any brokerage, commis¬ 
sion, or percentage, upon the amount receivable by it there¬ 
under, and that it has not, in estimating the price at 
38 which it undertakes hereunder to carrv the mail, in- 
eluded anv sum bv reason of anv such brokerage, 
commission, or percentage, and that all money payable to 
it hereunder is free from obligation to any person for serv¬ 
ices rendered, or supposed to have been rendered, in the 
procurement of this certificate. And it is understood that 
a breach of this condition shall constitute adequate cause 

for the cancellation of this certificate bv the Postmaster 

•> 

General, and that the United States may retain to its own 

use from anv sums due or to become due thereunder an 
•» 

amount equal to any brokerage, commission, or percentage 
so paid or agreed to be paid. 

13. The said Carrier shall be responsible for the person 
to whom it commits the custody and transportation of the 
mails, and the observance of the law by such persons and 
the faithful performance of the duties required by it of 
them; and shall not commit the custody or transportation of 
the mails to any person under sixteen years of age, nor 
to any person under a sentence of imprisonment at hard 
labor imposed by a court having criminal jurisdiction, nor 
to any person not authorized by law to be concerned in con¬ 
tracts for carrying the mail. 

14. The said Carrier shall be answerable in damages to 
the United States for any breach by it, or by its officers or 
agents, of the terms and conditions set out herein; and for 
such a breach, or for inferior service, or for loss of or dam¬ 
age to the mail through its fault or that of its officers or 
agents, the Postmaster General may make such deductions 
from the pay of the said Carrier as he may deem proper. 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


35 


15. This certificate may be cancelled by the Pbstmaster 
General at any time for willful neglect on the palrt of the 
holder to carry out any rules, regulations, or ordprs made 
for its guidance, notice of such intended cancellation to be 
given in writing by the Postmaster General and forty-five 
davs allowed the holder in which to show cause why the cer- 
tificate should not be cancelled. 

39 16. Bv the agreement of the Postmaster General 

and the Carrier, the life of this certificate may be 

cancelled or anv other modification mav be made herein not 

* •> 

inconsistent with law. 

17. The Postmaster General shall have the rigfyt at any 
time during the period of service authorized hereby to re¬ 
quire the Carrier to furnish surety other than ithat for 
which provision is hereinafter made, and in his dispretion to 
increase or reduce the amount of the bond that nas been 

furnished bv the Carrier. 

•> 

18. The delivery to and acceptance and approval by the 
Postmaster General of a bond in the sum of $12,0Qt).00 con¬ 
ditioned upon the faithful and efficient performance in ac¬ 
cordance with the terms and conditions hereinbefore set 
out, of the service intended to be authorized by this certifi¬ 
cate, duly executed by a surety acceptable to the Postmas¬ 
ter General; and the acceptance of this certificate upon the 
said terms and conditions, evidenced bv the counter-signa- 
ture of the said Carrier, shall be conditions precedent to the 
vesting of any right in the said Carrier by virtue l|ereof. 

Witness mv hand and seal this third dav of Mav, 1930. 

WALTER F. BROWN, 

Postmaster General. 

Witness to the signature of the Postmaster General: 

W. IRVING GLOVER. j 

Accepted upon the terms and conditions abovel set out 
this 3rd day of May, 1930. 

NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
By PAUL HENDERSON, j 

Vice-Pres. 

40 Amendment. j 

Under authority of the Act of April 23, 1930, 39 |u. S. C. 
465c, Supp. V., and in accordance with the terms contained 
in the route certificate issued under date of Mav 3, 1930, 

* I 7 7 



36 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


to National Air Transport, Inc., of Chicago, Illinois, upon 
surrender bv it of the contract with the United States to 

•s ' 

transport air mail by aircraft on a route from Chicago, 
Illinois, by way of Moline, Illinois, St. Joseph, Missouri, 
Kansas City, Missouri, Wichita, Kansas, Oklahoma City, 
Oklahoma, and such other designated points to Dallas and 
Fort Worth, Texas, and return,—Paragraph 16 of the air 
mail route certificate is hereby amended so as to read as 
follows: 

“16. Bv agreement of the Postmaster General and the 
Carrier the life of this certificate may be curtailed, said 
certificate may be cancelled, or anv other modification 
therein be made, including extensions in the life thereof, 
not inconsistent with law. ’’ 


Witness my hand and seal this 24th dav of Februarv, 
1933. 


WALTER F. BROWN, 

Postmaster General. 


Witness to the signature of the Postmaster General: 
ALICE MUMMENHOFF. 


Accepted upon the terms and conditions above set out 
this 6th dav of March, 1933: 

NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 

By P. G. JOHNSON, 

Pres. 


41 


Exhibit “D”. 


Route Certificate Air Mail Service. 

Route: New York, New York, by way of Cleveland, Ohio, 
to Chicago, Illinois, and return. 

Carrier: National Air Transport, Incorporated, of Chi¬ 
cago, Illinois. 

Whereas, Section 2 of the Act of Congress, approved on 
the 29th day of April, 1930, entitled an “An Act to Amend 
the Air mail Act of February 2, 1925, as Amended by the 
Acts of June 3, 1926, and May 17, 1928, Further to En¬ 
courage Commercial Aviation/’ is as follows: 

“the Postmaster General may, if in his judgment the public 
interest will be promoted thereby, upon the surrender of 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 3/ 

I 

1 

any air mail contract, issue in substitution therefor a 
route certificate for a period of not exceeding ten years 
from the date service started under such contract to any 
contractor or subcontractor who has satisfactorily oper¬ 
ated an air mail route for a period of not less than two 
years, which certificate shall provide that the holdeir thereof 
shall have the right, so long as he complies with all rules, 
regulations, and orders that may be issued by t^ie Post¬ 
master General for meeting the needs of the Postal Service 
and adjusting mail operations to the advances in the art 
of flying and passenger transportation, to carry air mail 
over the route set out in the certificate or any modification 
thereof at rates of compensation to be fixed fronj time to 
time, at least annually, by the Postmaster Genera], and he 
shall publish in his annual report his reasons for the con¬ 
tinuance or the modification of any rates: Provided, That 
such rates shall not exceed $1.25 per mile. Such certificate 
may be cancelled at any time for willful neglec: on the 
part of the holder to carry out any rules, regulations, ox- 
orders made for his guidance, notice of such intended can¬ 
cellation to be given in writing by the Postmaster General 
and forty-five days allowed the holder in v T hich to show 
cause whv the certificate should not be cancelled.’’ j 

42 And -whereas, the National Air Ti*anspoif, Incor¬ 
porated, of Chicago, Illinois, a corporation duly 
organized and existing under the laws of the State of 
Dela-ware, hereinafter called the Carrier, on the second 
day of April, 1927, duly entered into a conti'act with the 
United States to transport the air mail by aircraft on a 
route from New York, New Yoi*k, by way of Cleveland, 
Ohio, to Chicago, Illinois, and return, the said contract 
presently being in full force and effect; 

And whereas, the said Carrier has satisfactorily oper¬ 
ated said air route for a period of not less than twto years, 
to wit, from the first day of September, 1927, and ii willing 
to surrender the said air mail contract and accept; in sub¬ 
stitution therefor a route certificate as provided in Section 
2 of the Act of Congress approved the 29th dav of April, 
1930; 

And whereas, in the judgment of the Postmaster Gen¬ 
eral, the public interest will be promoted by the issuance 
to said Carrier of a route certificate in substitution for 
said contract ; 



38 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


Xow, therefore, pursuant to the authority in me vested 
by the provisions of said Act, I hereby certify that said 
National Air Transport, Incorporated, of Chicago, Illinois, 
shall have the right, so long as it complies with all rules, 
regulations, and orders that may be issued by the Post¬ 
master General for meeting the needs of the Postal Service 
and adjusting mail operations to advances in the art of 
flying and passenger transportation, to carry air mail over 
the route hereinafter set out or any modification thereof, 
at rates of compensation fixed herein, or to be fixed from 
time to time, at least annually, by the Postmaster General, 
provided that such rates shall not exceed $1.25 per mile 
for a period ending not more than ten years from the date 
of beginning service under said contract, to wit, on the fifth 
day of April, 1936; subject to the following conditions: 

43 Terms and Conditions. 

1. The issuance of this certificate by the Postmaster 
General and its acceptance by the Carrier as hereinafter 
provided shall be deemed a full mutual release of the United 
States and the said Carrier from all the terms, conditions, 
and obligations of the air mail contract hereinbefore re¬ 
ferred to, dated the second day of April, 1927, from the 
date of the acceptance of this certificate, except compen¬ 
sation due for services performed prior to the date hereof, 
and upon the acceptance thereof the said Carrier shall sur¬ 
render the said contract to the United States. 

2. The route over which the Carrier shall have the right 
to carry air mail shall be from New York, New York, by 
way of Cleyeland, Ohio, to Chicago, Illinois, and Return, 
including any extension or other modification of said route 
that may be made as hereinafter provided. 

3. Upon 60 days notice to the Carrier, the Postmaster 
General from time to time mav modifv said route bv an 
extension or extensions thereof, including lateral exten¬ 
sions or consolidations, and prescribe the schedule therefor 
including the stops thereon, and determine the mileage 
upon which the compensation of the Carrier is to be based. 

4. For the purpose of this certificate the distance be¬ 
tween the terminal points of the route hereinbefore pre¬ 
scribed shall be deemed to be 719 miles. 

5. The aircraft employed by the Carrier in the service 
authorized hereby shall be manufactured in the United 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


39 


States. They shall be of modern design, airworthy, and 
suitable for the service prescribed; the design and capacity 
of such aircraft, and the location, size and constriction of 
the mail compartments therein, shall be subject to the 
approval of the Postmaster General. 

44 The following service may be prescribed by the 
Postmaster General: 

A—Night Mail Service. 

B—Night Mail and Passenger Service. 

C—Dav Mail Service. 

D—Dav Mail and Passenger Service. 

| 

6. Until and including the thirty-first day of December, 
1930, or until otherwise directed by the Postmaster Gen¬ 
eral, the Carrier shall provide the following service over 
said route: 

1. One flight by a plane having not less than $0 cubic 
feet of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, departing from 
New York, N. Y., at 12:15 p. m., daily, to be classified as 
Class C service, and payment made therefor at the rate 
of one dollar and two cents ($1.02) per mile, between New 
York, N. Y., and Cleveland, Ohio, until otherwise ordered. 

2. One flight by a plane having not less than 80 cpbic feet 
of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, and accommodations 
for not less than 7 passengers, departing from Cleveland, 
Ohio, at 4.35 p. m., daily, to be classified as Class 1} service, 
and payment made therefor at the rate of one ddllar and 
fifteen cents ($1.15) per mile, between Cleveland, Ohio, and 
Chicago, Illinois, until otherwise ordered. 

3. One flight by a plane having not less than 80 cubic 
feet of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, departing from 
New York, N. Y., at 10.15 p. m., daily, to be classified as 
Class A service, and payment made therefor at the rate 
of one dollar and fourteen cents ($1.14) per mile, between 
New York, N. Y., and Chicago, Ill., until otherwise ^rdered. 

4. One flight by a plane having not less than ^0 cubic 
feet of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, departing from 
New York, N. Y., at 9.20 p. m., daily except Saturdays, 
Sundays and holidays, to be classified as Class A service, 
and payment made therefor at the rate of one dollar and 
fourteen cents ($1.14) per mile, between New York, N. Y., 
and Chicago, Ill., until otherwise ordered. 



40 


NATIONAL AIK TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


5. One flight by a plane having not less than 80 cubic 
feet of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, and accommoda¬ 
tions for not less than 7 passengers, departing from Chi¬ 
cago at 9.30 a. m., daily, to be classified as Class D service, 
and payment made therefor at the rate of one dollar and 
fifteen cents ($1.15) per mile, between Chicago, HI., and 
Cleveland, Ohio, until otherwise ordered. 

6. One flight by a plane having not less than 80 cubic 
feet of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, departing from 
Cleveland, Ohio, at 1.50 p. m., daily, to be classified as 
Class C service, and payment made therefor at the rate 
of one dollar and two cents ($1.02) per mile, between 
Cleveland, Ohio, and New York, N. Y., until otherwise 
ordered. 

7. One flight by a plane having not less than 80 cubic 

feet of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, departing 
45 from Chicago, Ill., at 8.30 p. m., daily, to be classi¬ 
fied as Class A service, and payment made therefor 
at the rate of one dollar and fourteen cents ($1.14) per 
mile, between Chicago, Ill., and New York, N. Y., until 
otherwise ordered. 

8. One flight by a plane having not less than 80 cubic 
feet of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, departing from 
Chicago, Ill., at 10.00 p. m., daily except Saturdays, Sun¬ 
days, and holidays, to be classified as Class A service, and 
payment made therefor at the rate of one dollar and four¬ 
teen cents ($1.14) per mile, between Chicago, Ill., and New 
York, N. Y., until otherwise ordered. 

7. Upon 60 days notice to the Carrier, the Postmaster 
General may increase, diminish, or modify the service 
above prescribed, and make such adjustments in the com¬ 
pensation of the Carrier as he may deem proper. 

8. The Carrier shall transport the mails of the United 
States offered for carriage over the route hereinbefore set 
out with due celerity, in a safe and secure manner, free 
from wet or other injury, receiving and delivering the same 
at fields and points therein designated on schedules pre¬ 
scribed by the Postmaster General. 

9. Payments shall be made to the Carrier monthly upon 
evidence that the service authorized hereby has been well 
and faithfully performed in accordance with the provisions 
hereof. 



JAMES A. FAELEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


41 


i 

10. The Carrier shall keep and maintain an accurate 
system of accounting in accordance with regulations pre¬ 
scribed by the Postmaster General. These accounts shall 
include a record of all obligations, investments, expendi¬ 
tures, receipts and earnings from any source whatsoever, 
and shall be subject at all reasonable times to inspection 
and audit by the Post Office Department. The Carrier 
shall furnish to the Postmaster General such information 
regarding its accounts and operations as he may from time 
to time require. 

11. The Carrier shall not directly, or indirectly, promote 
the use of the air mail over the route hereinbefore $et out, 
or any other air mail route except in accordance with 

regulations prescribed by the Postmaster General. 
46 12. This certificate is issued upon the exprdss con¬ 

ditions that the said Carrier will hold itself subject to 
all the conditions imposed by the several Acts of Congress 
relating to the Air Mail Service and to all the provi¬ 
sions of the law relating to Post Offices and the Postal Serv¬ 
ice generally in so far as they are applicable to t^ie Air 
Mail Service; that no Member of or Delegate to Cqngress 
shall be admitted to any share or part of the benefits ac¬ 
cruing to it hereunder; and that it has not employed h third 
person to solicit or obtain the same, or to cause or procure 
the same to be obtained upon compensation in any w^y con¬ 
tingent, in whole or in part, upon such procurement; and 
that it has not paid, or promised or agreed to pay, [to any 
third person, in consideration of such procurement; or in 
compensation for service in connection therewith, apy bro¬ 
kerage, commission, or percentage, upon the amount Receiv¬ 
able by it thereunder, and that it has not, in estimating the 
price at which it undertakes hereunder to carry the mail, 
including any sum by reason of any such brokerage, com¬ 
mission, or percentage, and that all money payabl^ to it 
hereunder is free from obligation to any person for services 
rendered, or supposed to have been rendered, in the pro¬ 
curement of this certificate. And it is understood that a 
breach of this condition shall constitute adequate cafise for 
the cancellation of this certificate by the Postmaster Gen¬ 
eral, and that the United States may retain to its own use 
from any sums due or to become due thereunder an amount 
equal to any brokerage, commission, or percentage sp paid 
or agreed to be paid. 



42 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


13. The said Carrier shall be responsible for the persons 
to whom it commits the custody and transportation of the 
mails, and the observance of the law by such persons and 
the faithful performance of the duties required by it of 
them; and shall not commit the custody or transportation 

of thei mails to any person under sixteen years of 

47 age, nor to any person under a sentence of imprison¬ 
ment at hard labor imposed by a court having crimi¬ 
nal jurisdiction, nor to any person not authorized by law 
to be concerned in contracts for carrying the mail. 

14. The said Carrier shall be answerable in damages to 
the United States for any breach by it, or by its officers or 
agents, of the terms and conditions set out herein; and for 
such a breach, or for inferior service, or for loss of or dam¬ 
age to the mail through its fault or that of its officers or 
agents, the Postmaster General may make such deductions 
from the pay of the said Carrier as he may deem proper. 

15. The Carrier shall be required to provide necessary 
workroom space in its buildings on the field, or fields, to 
permit proper handling and distribution of mails by Post 
Office Department employees. 

16. This certificate may be cancelled bv the Postmaster 
General at any time for willful neglect on the part of the 
holder to carry out any rules, regulations, or orders made 
for its guidance, notice of such intended cancellation to be 
given in writing by the Postmaster General and forty-five 
days allowed the holder in which to show cause why the 
certificate should not be cancelled. 

17. By agreement of the Postmaster General and the 
Carrier, the life of this certificate may be curtailed, said 
certificate may be cancelled, or any other modification may 
be made herein not inconsistent with law. 

18. The Postmaster General shall have the right at any 
time during the period of service authorized hereby to re¬ 
quire the Carrier to furnish surety other than that for 
which provision is hereafter made, and in his discretion 
to increase or reduce the amount of the bond that has been 
furnished by the Carrier. 

19. The delivery to and acceptance and approval by the 
Postmaster General of a bond in the sum of $251,- 

48 000.00 conditioned upon the faithful and efficient 
performance in accordance with the terms and condi¬ 
tions hereinbefore set out, of the service intended to be au- 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AX INDIVIDUAL. 


43 


tliorized by this certificate, duly executed by a surety ac¬ 
ceptable to the Postmaster General; and the acceptance of 
this certificate upon the said terms and conditions, evi¬ 
denced by the countersignature of the said Carrier, shall be 
conditions precedent to the vesting of any right in the said 

Carrier bv virtue hereof. 

* 

Witness my hand and seal this 22nd day of October, 1930. 

WALTER F. BROWN, 

Postmaster General . 

i 

Witness to the signature of the Postmaster General: 
EARL B. WADSWORTH. 

Accepted upon the terms and conditions above spt out 
this 22nd dav of October, 1930. 

NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
PAUL HENDERSON, 

Pres . 


49 


Amendment, 


Under authority of the Act of April 29, 1930, 39 U. S. C. 
465c. Supp. V., and in accordance with the terms contained 
in the route certificate issued under date of October 22, 
1930, to National Air Transport, Incorporated, of Chicago, 
Illinois, upon surrender by it of the contract with the 
United States to transport air mail by aircraft on a route 
from New York, New York, by way of Cleveland, Ohio to 
Chicago, Illinois, and return—Paragraph 17 of the air mail 
route certificate is hereby amended so as to read as fol¬ 
lows : 

“17. By agreement of the Postmaster General and the 
Carrier the life of this certificate may be curtailed, said cer¬ 
tificate may be cancelled, or any other modification therein 
be made, including extensions in the life thereof, not incon¬ 
sistent with law.’’ 

Witness my hand and seal this 24th day of February, 
1933. 

WALTER F. BROWN, j 

Postmaster General. 

i 

Witness to the signature of the Postmaster Generali: 
ALICE MUMMENHOFF. 




44 NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., <£C. VS. 

Accepted upon the terms and conditions above set out 
this 6th day of March, 1933. 

! NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
ByP. G. JOHNSON, 

Pres. 

50 Exhibit 44 E”. 

United Air Lines, Inc. 

Management Contract Between United Air Lines, Inc., and 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc., National Air Transport, Inc., 

Pacific Air Transport, Varney Air Lines, Inc. 

Agreement, this 1st day of July, 1931, between United 
Air Lines, Inc., a corporation of the State of Delaware 
(hereinafter referred to as “Management Corporation”), 
party of the first part, and Boeing Air Transport, Inc., Na¬ 
tional Air Transport, Inc., Pacific Air Transport and Var¬ 
ney Air Lines, Inc., and such other corporations as may, 
from time to time, become parties to this Agreement in the 
manner hereinafter provided (hereinafter referred to as 
“Operating Companies”), parties of the second part. 

Whereas, the Operating Companies are each controlled 
through stock ownership by the United Aircraft & Trans¬ 
port Corporation, a corporation of the State of Delaware, 
and are engaged in operating air transport lines, none of 
which competes with any of the others and which together 
constitute a single connected system, the various portions 
of which, however, have heretofore been operated inde¬ 
pendently of each other; and 

Whereas, the Operating Companies deem it desirable 
that their respective policies of management, operation 
and accounting be unified with a view to obtaining greater 
efficiency in operations; and 

Whereas, the Operating Companies also desire to estab¬ 
lish a common agency for the purchase of equipment and 
supplies and the placing of insurance and advertising with 
a view to securing the economies which may be expected 
to be realized therefrom; 

Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises and 
of the mutual promises herein contained, the parties hereto 
hereby agree, as follows: 

I. The Management Corporation shall manage the opera¬ 
tions of the respective Operating Companies, securing for 
each of them such local managers, superintendents, engi- 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AX INDIVIDUAL. 45 

I 

neers, auditors and other employees as may, in th^ judg¬ 
ment of the Management Corporation, be necessary jor de¬ 
sirable. The persons so secured by the Management Cor¬ 
poration shall be in the employ of, and be paid by, |he re¬ 
spective Operating Companies. 

II. The Management Corporation shall keep itself fa¬ 
miliar with the business of the respective Operating Com¬ 
panies and the local conditions applying thereto, and shall 
advise and direct the local managers and department and 
division heads of the respective Operating Companies. 

III. The Management Corporation shall, from t}me to 
time, determine upon and enforce unified policies ol[ man¬ 
agement, operation and accounting for the several 

51 Operating Companies, including, among other ijhings, 
adjustment of flying schedules, rates of fare, rules 
and regulations applying to the transportation of passen¬ 
gers, mail and express, sale of tickets, and relations and 
agreements with other transport companies. 

IV. The Management Corporation shall purchase f^r the 
account of the respective Operating Companies, fronji time 
to time, so far as practicable, any and all equipment, ap¬ 
paratus, tools and supplies which may be required fj>r the 
operations thereof. 

V. The Management Corporation shall manage the traffic 
departments of the respective Operating Companies, and, 
as their agent and for their account, shall employ all super¬ 
intendents, clerks and other employees necessary foij* such 
traffic departments, shall pay their salaries and wag^s and 
any and all other expenses of the respective traffic and 
ticket offices, except those which the several Operating Com¬ 
panies may elect to pay directly, and shall collect aiid ac¬ 
count for any and all receipts of the several traffic depart¬ 
ments from the sale of tickets or other sources. 

VI. The Management Corporation shall supervise the 

auditing and accounting of the respective Operating Com¬ 
panies and the preparation of their financial, tax and simi¬ 
lar reports. i 

VII. The Management Corporation shall cause the prop¬ 
erties and operations of the respective Operating Com¬ 
panies to be at all times covered by such insurance asj may, 
in the judgment of the Management Corporation, be ijieces- 
sary for their reasonable protection, all of which insurance 
shall be placed by the Management Corporation for the ac¬ 
count of the respective Operating Companies. 




46 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


VIII. Thb Management Corporation shall, from time to 
time, determine upon the advertising and publicity policies 
for the respective Operating Companies and shall place 
any and all advertising contracts either for its own account 
or for the account of the respective Operating Companies, 
as occasion may warrant. 

IX. The Management Corporation shall exercise execu¬ 
tive supervision over franchise, tax and rate matters and 
negotiations and dealings with the United States Gov¬ 
ernment and the several departments thereof, and over 
any and all controversies or litigations in or to which the 
respective Operating Companies shall be parties or be in¬ 
terested; provided, that the services to be rendered by the 
Management Corporation hereunder shall not include legal 
services of anv character. 

X. Salaries of officers and employees of the Management 
Corporation shall be paid by it; and, in case any such 
officer or employee shall also be an officer or employee of 
an Operating Company, arrangements shall be made that 
such officer or employee shall serve without compensation 
from such Operating Company, unless the Operating Com¬ 
pany shall otherwise agree. 

XI. The Management Corporation shall keep available 
to the respective Operating Companies, at its principal 
office, the experience, advice and assistance of the members 
of its organization and the facilities of its various depart¬ 
ments for use in any matter pertaining to the operations 

of the several Operating Companies. 

52 XII. Nothing contained in this Agreement is in¬ 
tended or shall be construed to be in derogation of or 
in limitation upon the powers and duties of the directors 
or officers of the several Operating Companies. In acting 
hereunder, the Management Corporation shall, at all times, 
be subject to the direction and order of the Boards of Di¬ 
rectors or the respective Operating Companies. 

XIII. As full compensation for services to be rendered 
by the Management Corporation hereunder, and in reim¬ 
bursement of its general expenses, each Operating Com¬ 
pany shall pay to the Management Corporation, within 
thirty davs after the close of each calendar month, a sum in 
cash equal to its ratable share in the expenses of the Man¬ 
agement Corporation for such month, other than expenses 
incurred for account of one or more of the Operating Com¬ 
panies, individually, which share shall be determined, from 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


47 


time to time, by the proportion which the volume of op¬ 
erations of the particular Operating Company fof such 
month bears to the total volume of operations of all the 
Operating Companies for the same month. For the pur¬ 
poses of this Article XIII, such proportion shall be deter¬ 
mined, so far as practicable, by giving due weight to the 
number of miles flown by the respective Operatingj Com¬ 
panies and the gross operating revenues thereof, together 
with such other factors (if any) as, from time to time, may 
appear to be equitable. The proportions thus determined 
upon, from time to time, shall be applied thereafter^ from 
month to month, subject to adjustment at any time, at the 
request of any Operating Company, so as to reflect ^hang¬ 
ing operating conditions. In case the Operating Companies 
shall at any time be unable to agree among themselves 
upon their respective shares in the general expenses 
Management Corporation, the decision of the Manag 
Corporation with respect thereto shall be decisive. 

Applying the foregoing formula to present operations, 
the parties agree that, until adjusted as herein provided, 
the general expenses of the Management Corporation shall 
be borne by the several Operating Companies in the follow¬ 
ing proportions, respectively: 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc.,—Three-eighths thereof. 

National Air Transport, Inc.—Three-eighths therebf. 

Pacific Air Transport—One-eighth thereof. 

Varney Air Lines, Inc.—One-eighth thereof. 

Expenses incurred by the Management Corporatiqn for 
account of one or more of the Operating Companies^ indi- 
viduall}", shall be reimbursed to the Management Corpora¬ 
tion by the respective Operating Companies concerned 
therein within thirty days after the close of the month in 
which such expenses were incurred. 

XIV. Any corporation operating an air transport line, 
and controlled through stock ownership by the United Air¬ 
craft & Transport Corporation, may at any time become a 
party to this Agreement by signing the original hereof held 
by the Management Corporation. If at any time the said 
United Aircraft & Transport Corporation shall cease to 
be the owner of at least a majority of the voting stock of 
any Operating Company, such Operating Company shall 
immediately cease to be a party to this Agreement; pro¬ 
vided, that it shall remain liable to pay to the Management 




48 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., <tC. VS. 


Corporation any and all sums then payable by such Operat¬ 
ing Company hereunder. 

53 XV. Any Operating Company may withdraw from 
this Agreement at the close of anv calendar year bv 
giving to the Management Corporation and to the other 
Operating Companies six months prior notice in writing of 
its intention so to do. 

XVI. This agreement shall be binding upon, and shall 
inure to the benefit of, the respective parties hereto, their 
successors and assigns. 

XVII. Nothing contained in this Agreement is intended 
to constitute, or shall be construed as constituting, the re¬ 
spective Operating Companies partners with one another, 
or as guarantors or sureties of any of the others, the obli¬ 
gations of each of the Operating Companies being several 
and not joint. 

XVIII. This Agreement shall become effective as of July 
1, 1931, upon the approval thereof by the Post-Master Gen¬ 
eral of the United States of America. 

In witness whereof, the parties hereto have caused this 
instrument to be executed by their respective Presidents 
and/or Vice-Presidents, as of the day and vear first above 
written, except as to such Operating Companies as may be¬ 
come parties hereto subsequently to the said date, in which 
case this Agreement shall be deemed to have been entered 
into by them on the respective dates upon which they shall 
have signed the same. 

UNITED AIR LINES, INC., 

By (Signed by) FREDERICK W. JACKSON, 

President. 

i BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, 

INC., 

By (Signed by) P. G. JOHNSON, 

Prpsid.pnt 

NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, 
INC., 

By (Signed by) P. G. JOHNSON, 

P vP dP'iit 

PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, 

By (Signed by) P. G. JOHNSON, 

i President. 

VARNEY AIR LINES, INC., 

By (Signed by) P. G. JOHNSON, 

i President. 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


I 

I 


49 


54 


Exhibit “F”. 


“New York City, 
February 16, 1934. 


Hon. James A. Farley, 

Postmaster General of the United States, 

Washington, D. C. j 

Dear Sir: 

I 

The newspapers have published a copy of your letter, 
dated February 14,1934, addressed to Hon. Hugo L; Black, 
Chairman of the Special Senate Committee on Ocean and 
Air Mail Contracts. 

Your letter contains the direct charge that Unitjed Air 
Lines (by which name the integrated air line systeip oper¬ 
ated by the undersigned is generally known) were parties 
to a conspiracy which ‘resulted in a division of all dir mail 
contracts of the United States and the practical elemina- 
tion of competitive bidding/ and that 'all the present do¬ 
mestic air mail carriers secured contracts based bn con¬ 
spiracy or collusion.’ United Air Lines positively deny 
the truth of these charges as to them and assert that none 
of the contracts of United Air Lines was so secure^ The 
basic contracts under which they are today operating were 
in each case the result of competitive bidding, following 
public advertisement, and were awarded or sublet tb them 
long prior to the conference in May, 1930, at whicjh time 
you allege the conspiracy was entered into. Herd tabu¬ 
lated are the facts surrounding the initial letting c^f con¬ 
tracts to the several companies constituting the United Air 
Lines System: j 


A. National Air Transport, Inc. 

i 

Route AM-3—Chicago, Illinois, to Dallas, Texas, and re¬ 
turn. | 

Bids for this route were requested by public advertise¬ 
ment, dated July 15, 1925. Bids were opened September 
15, 1925. The contract was awarded under date of Octo- 
ber 7, 1925, to National Air Transport, Inc., as the lowest 
responsible bidder, with a bid of 80% of the postage rev¬ 
enue. The only other bidder was Generail Airway^ Sys¬ 
tem, Inc. 

4—6288a 




50 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


Performance under the contract commenced May 12, 
1926, and has continued to date. 

B. Varney Air Lines, Inc. 

Route AM-5—Salt Lake City, U., to Seattle, Wash., and 
return. 

Bids for the portion of the route between Elko, Nev., via 
Boise, Ida., and Pasco, Wash., were requested by public 
advertisement dated July 15, 1925. Bids were opened Sep¬ 
tember 15, 1925. The contract was awarded under date of 
October 7, 1925, to Walter T. Varney, of San Francisco, 
Calif., with a bid of 80% of the postage revenue. Walter 
T. Varney was the only bidder. The said contract was 
duly sublet to Varney Air Lines, Inc. 

55 Performance under the contract commenced April 
6, 1926. 

The northern portion of this route (originally known as 
Route AM-32) between Pasco, Wash., and Spokane, Wash., 
Portland, Ore., and Seattle, Wash., was publicly advertised 
for bidding i on June 15, 1929. Bids were opened August 
15, 1929. The contract was awarded under date of August 
21, 1929, to Varney Air Lines, Inc., as the lowest respon¬ 
sible bidder, with a bid of 9^ per pound. The other bid¬ 
ders were Robert E. Smith, National Parks Airways, Inc., 
and Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

Performance under the contract commenced immediately. 

On July 1, 1930, by certificate of the Postmaster General, 
Route AM-32 was duly consolidated with Route AM-5, and, 
upon the order of the present Postmaster General, dated 
October 9, 1933, the air mail route certificate covering the 
consolidated route was sublet to Boeing Air Transport, 
Inc., which now operates the same. 

C. Pacific Air Transport. 

Route AM-8—Seattle, Wash., to Los Angeles, Calif., and 
return. 

Bids for this route were requested by public advertise¬ 
ment dated July 15, 1925. Bids were opened September 
15, 1925. The contract was awarded under date of Decem¬ 
ber 31, 1925, to Vern C. Gorst, of North Bend, Ore., as the 
lowest responsible bidder, with a bid of 75% of the post¬ 
age revenue. The other bidders were Wiley F. Crist, of 
San Francisco, Calif., and Western Air Express, Inc. The 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 51 

• i 

said contract was duly sublet to Pacific Air Transport. 

Performance under the contract commenced September 
15,1926, and has continued to date. 

i 

i 

D. National Air Transport, Inc. 

Route AM-17—Newark, N. J., to Chicago, Illinois, and 
return. 

Bids for this route were requested by public advertise¬ 
ment dated November 15, 1926. Bids were opened Janu¬ 
ary 15, 1927, all bids being rejected. The route was pub¬ 
licly re-advertised for bidding on March 8, 1927, afid bids 
submitted pursuant thereto were opened March 24> 1927. 
The contract was awarded under date of April 2, 1927, to 
National Air Transport, Inc., as the lowest responsible 
bidder, with a bid of $1.24 per pound. The other bidders 
were A. F. Stewart, Colonial Air Transport, and North 
American Airways. 

Performance under the contract commenced September 
1, 1927, and has continued to date. | 

I 

E. Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

Route AM-18—Chicago, Ill., to San Francisco, Calif., and 
return. 

56 Bids for this route were requested by public ad¬ 
vertisement dated November 15, 1926. Bids were 
opened January 15,1927. The contract was awarded under 
date of January 29, 1927, to Boeing Airplane Company 
and Edward Hubbard, as the lowest responsible bidders, 
with a bid of $1.50 per pound for the first 1,000 mil^s and 
15^ per pound for each additional 100 miles. The other 
bidders were Stout Air Services, Inc., Western Air Ex¬ 
press, Inc., and Columbia Airliners. The said contract was 
duly sublet to Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

Performance under the contract commenced July 1, 1927, 

and has continued to date. 

■ 

Each of the above described contracts was for a term 
of four years from the date of award. At various dates 
between May and November, 1930, each of the said con¬ 
tracts was duly surrendered in accordance with the pro¬ 
visions of the ‘McNary-Watres Act’ in exchange for route 
certificates, duly issued by the Post Office Department. 
Said route certificates are in form prescribed by the Post 



52 NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., <fcC. VS. 

Office Department and confer upon the holders the right 
to carry the mails over the respective routes for a period 
of approximately ten years from the date of commence¬ 
ment of operations under the original contracts. 

From the foregoing it is clear that all the contracts of 
the constituent companies of the United Air Lines were 
awarded as a result of public competitive bidding and that, 
in each case, award was made to the lowest responsible 
bidder. 

No new route or extension of an existing route was 
granted to any of the United Air Lines subsequent to the 
conference above referred to, with the exception of the 
branch line between Omaha, Neb., and Watertown, S. D., 
and the extension between Los Angeles, and San Diego. 
The Watertown extension was neither solicited nor desired 
by the United Air Lines, but was put into operation by 
Boeing Air Transport, Inc., under instructions of the Post 
Office Department. The San Diego extension was a logical 
southerly extension of the previously existing Pacific 
Coast route of Pacific Air Transport (Route AM-8) and 
was entirely within the spirit and the letter of the McNary- 
Watres Act. Neither of these extensions was in any way 
discussed at the conference, and none of the undersigned 
at any time entered into any agreement or understanding, 
express or implied, with any other mail operator with re¬ 
spect to the granting thereof. 

None of -the representatives of United Air Lines pro¬ 
posed to enter, or entered, into any agreement or under¬ 
standing dealing with the granting of extensions to their 
own or other lines, or to the division of territorv between 
lines. At the time of the conference Varney Air Lines 
was in no way affiliated with the United Air Lines system, 
although your letter carries the contrary implication, and 
Thompson Aeronautical Corporation, which your letter 
also ascribes to the United Air Lines system, was not then 
and never has been in any way affiliated with United. 

At the tiipe of the conference United Air Lines had al¬ 
ready, through open competitive bidding, as above set 
forth, established an integrated transcontinental 
57 system, embracing lines between New York, Chi¬ 
cago and San Francisco, Chicago and Dallas, Tex., 
and Seattle and Los Angeles, respectively. United Air 
Lines were financially committed and contractually obli- 



JAMES A. FAKLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 53 

j 

gated to the improvement of their system, and were not 
interested and, in fact, could not legally participate in any 
other transcontinental system. Representatives of United 
Air Lines were present at the conference only at the re¬ 
quest of the Postmaster General, with whose orders and 
regulations they were under obligations to comply. 

In your letter to Senator Black, you state that the con¬ 
tract for Route AM-32 (Pasco-Spokane, Portland-Seattle) 
‘was awarded to Varney Air Lines, Inc., owned by United 
Aircraft on August 21, 1929, at a rate of nine ceijts per 
pound,’ and that ‘this route was consolidated with Another 
route of United Air Lines July 1, 1930, at a rate of $2.43 
per pound.’ The Fact is that United Aircraft d^id not 
own Varney Air Lines in August, 1929. It was not until 
June 28, 1930, almost a year thereafter, that Unitejd Air¬ 
craft acquired any portion of the stock thereof; afrd the 
reorganization of the management of Varney Air Lines 
as a United Aircraft subsidiary wns not effected until 
August 26, 1930. The facts with respect to the contracts 
of Varney Air Lines, Inc., have been set forth abcjve. 

In the first paragraph on page two of your letter, as 
released to the press, you say: 

‘Five of these contracts were executed November 7, 1925, 
and would have expired by operation of law November 7, 

1929, except for an order issued on November 6, 1929, by 
Second Assistant Postmaster General W. Irving (plover 
extending these contracts for a period of six months so 
as to make them terminate May 7, 1930. I am satisfied 
that the extension of these contracts for said period of 
six months was illegal. There vras no attempt whatever 
to readvertise said routes or re-award them, or emergency 
requiring them to be let without competitive bidding, and 
the course pursued was a part of the conspiracy hereinafter 
mentioned. Extensions of these contracts for a period of 
ten years, under the so-called ‘Certificate’ method, 1 were 
arbitrarily made by Postmaster General Brown on May 3, 

1930. ’ 

Contracts covering two of the routes now r being operated 
by United Air Lines vrere included in the orders which you 
assert were illegally issued by the Second Assistant Post¬ 
master General. For more than twelve months prior to 



54 NATIONAL AIK TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 

November 6, 1929, the contract of Varney Air Lines, Inc., 
covering Route AM-5, and of National Air Transport, Inc., 
covering Route AM-3, were eligible for conversion into 
route certificates under the provisions of the 1928 amend¬ 
ment of the so-called * Kelley Act,’ which, among other 
things, provided for the surrender of contracts, under 
which satisfactory service had been performed for two 
years, for route certificates which would permit continuing 
operations for a period of ten years from the dates on 
■which service was inaugurated under the original con¬ 
tracts. Although negotiations looking toward the sur¬ 
render of such contracts had been carried on for a 
considerable period prior to November 6, 1929, the Post¬ 
master General had not, up to that date, accepted such 
surrender. The orders of the Second Assistant Post¬ 
master General, on November 6, 1929, were, as the 
58 undersigned are advised, in strict conformity with 
the law covering the situation. Issuance of the or¬ 
ders was not solicited by either Varney Air Lines, Inc., 
or National Air Transport, Inc., and route certificates cov¬ 
ering the same routes were issued to the same carriers 
at or before the expiration of the extended period. At the 
time of the extension, neither of the companies affected was 

in anv wav affiliated with United Aircraft. 

•> * 

Your letter to Senator Black refers to alleged excessive 

payments paid by the Post Office Department to air mail 

contractors, and implies that such excessive payments have 

been received bv all of them. It can readilv be shown from 

% * 

the Post Office Department’s records that, so far as United 
Air Lines are concerned, the cost of carrying the mail has 
steadily decreased. In May, 1930, United Air Lines re¬ 
ceived payment at the average rate of $1.18 a mile as com¬ 
pared with an average of 53<* a mile in May, 1933. Since 
May, 1933, the average rate has been further reduced to 
approximately 36^ a mile for the entire United Air Lines 
system. The mail revenue of United Air Lines per pound 
mile is now approximately the same as the stamp revenue 
per pound mile received by the Government from the pub¬ 
lic; that is, about 1.6 mills. Owing to the difficulty with 
which the Post Office Department is confronted in calcu¬ 
lating the exact revenue received by it from air mail, it 
appears to be impossible to arrive at an exact computation 
thereof, but recent official statements indicate that the 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


55 


stamp revenue for air mail currently amounts to between 
1.5 mills and 2 mills per pound mile for the country as a 
whole. j 

The undersigned call your attention to the evident mis¬ 
information upon which your letter is based, in the con¬ 
fident expectation that you will re-examine the fhcts and 
give the undersigned an opportunity to be heard, to the 
end that grave injustice shall not be suffered by thi under¬ 
signed, who have in the best of good faith entered into 
contract obligations with the United States Government, 
have fully and faithfully complied with all laws and regu¬ 
lations, and have, in cooperation with the Post Office De¬ 
partment, created one of the greatest Air Transport Sys¬ 
tems in the world. 

Yours very truly, 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, 

VARNEY AIR LINES, INC., 

UNITED AIR LINES, INC., 

By P. G. JOHNSON, 

President. 

59 Motion to Dismiss. 

Filed May 8, 1934. 

• # # * * • • | 

Comes now the defendant in the above entitled cause, and 
moves to dismiss the bill of complaint filed herein for the 
following reasons: 

1. That the bill of complaint does not state a good cause 
of action. 

2. That the suit is virtually one against the United States. 

3. That the plaintiff has a plain, adequate and complete 
remedy at law, namely, a suit in the Court of Claims, for 
the alleged breach of contract. 

4. That this suit seeks to control the official acts of the 
Postmaster General of the United States, which abts are 
within the scope of his authority and part of his official 



56 


NATIONAL AIB TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


duties, and involve the exercise of judgment and discre¬ 
tion in respect to matters lawfully submitted to his care. 

5. And for other reasons apparent of record. 

LESLIE C. GARNETT, 

United States Attorney , 
DAVID A. PINE, 

Assistant United States Attorney , 

JOHN W. FIHELLY, 

Assistant United States Attorney , 
i Attorneys for Defendant. 

CARL L. RISTINE, 

Special Assistant to the Attorney General , 

Of Counsel. 

HARRY L. JONES, 

Attorney, Departmeyit of Justice , 

Of Counsel. 

60 Decree Granting Motion to Disjniss, &c. 

Filed June 6, 1934. 

I 

This cause came on to be heard at this term upon the mo¬ 
tion of defendant to dismiss the bill of complaint filed 
herein; and thereupon, upon consideration thereof, it is, 
this 6th day of June, 1934, 

Adjudged, ordered and decreed that the motion to dis¬ 
miss said bill of complaint be and the same is hereby 
granted, and said bill of complaint be and the same is 
hereby dismissed. 

DANIEL W. O’DONOGHUE, 

Justice. 

No objection as to form: 

WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, 

Attorney for Plaintiff. 

Notation of Appeal. 

Filed June 19, 1934. 

• •••••• 

Comes now the plaintiff in the above entitled cause and 
notes an appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District of 

i 



I 

I 

I 


JAMES A. FAKLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 57 

Columbia, from that certain order and decree majde and 
entered by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia 
on the 6th dav of June, 1934. 

WM. J. DONOVAN[ 
Attorney for Plaintiff-Appellant. 

61 Citation. j 

Issued June 19, 1934. 

i 

• • • * • * * i 

The President of the United States to James A. Farlev, an 

individual, Greeting: 

I 

You are hereby cited and admonished to be and Appear 
at the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, upon 
docketing the cause therein, under and as directed tav the 
rules of said court, pursuant to an appeal from the Supreme 
Court of the District of Columbia, on the 19" day of June, 
1934, wherein National Air Transport, Inc., is appellant, 
and you are appellee, to show cause, if any there b<p, why 
the decree rendered against the said appellant, should not 
be corrected, and why speedy justice should not be dpne to 
the parties in that behalf. 

Witness the Honorable Alfred A. Wheat, Chief Justice 
of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, thjis 19" 
day of June, in the year of Our Lord, one thousand nine 
hundred and thirty-four. 

[seal.] FRANK E. CUNNINGHAM, 

Clerk, 

By HARRY M. HULL, 

Assistant Clerk. 

Service of appeal citation in Eq. 57041 acknowledged & 
accepted June 19, 1934. 

LESLIE C. GARNETT, 

V. S. Attorney. 

Order Setting Appeal Bond. 

\ 

Filed June 20, 1934. 

I 

It appearing to the court that an appeal was thi^ day 
noted herein from the decree of June 6, 1934, it is this! 20th 
day of June 



58 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


62 Ordered that the bond on appeal be and the same 
hereby is fixed in the sum of $100.00, or in lieu 
thereof, $50.00 in cash. 

JENNINGS BAILEY, 

Justice. 


Memorandum. 

June 20,1934.—$50 deposit in lieu of bond on appeal. 

Assignment of Errors. 

Filed June 19,1934. 


• •••••• 


Comes now the plaintiff in the above entitled cause and 
files the following assignment of errors upon which it will 
rely in prosecuting its appeal in the above entitled cause 
from the order and decree made by this Honorable Court on 
the 6th day of June, 1934; 

The Court erred: 

1. In dismissing the bill of complaint. 

2. In failing to hold that the Court had jurisdiction of the 
suit. 

3. In holding that the suit is essentially a suit against the 
United States. 

4. In holdiij.g that the suit involves the handling of the 
mails and therefore involves the property of the United 
States. 

5. In failing to hold that the acts of defendant Farley 
complained of were unauthorized by law and therefore void. 

6. In failing to hold that defendant Farley is individually 

responsible for his unauthorized acts and that he is 
63 subject to injunction therefor. 

7. In failing to hold that no interest of the United 
States would be affected by the granting of the relief 
sought. 

8. In holding that the plaintiff has an adequate remedy 
at law by suit in the Court of Claims. 

9. In holding that the acts complained of do not violate 
the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States or the rights thereby preserved to the plaintiff. 

10. In failing to hold that Section 3950 of the Revised 
Statutes, insofar as it seeks to impose pains and penalties 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


59 


i 

! 


is unconstitutional as applied to this plaintiff upon the 
facts set forth in the complaint, because constituting a bill 
of attainder. 

11. In holding that the Court could not properlv enjoin 

the imposition of any such penalty prior to the actual im¬ 
position thereof. j 

12. In failing to hold that the facts alleged in the com¬ 
plaint call for equitable relief. 

WM. J. DONOVA^T, 
Attorney for Plaintiff-Appellant. 

j 

Docket Entries. 


t t 


l ( 


Date Proceedings 

1934 Apr. 18 Deposit toward costs by Donovan. 

44 Bill, appearance, order to file, & Ekhs (6) 
filed. ! 

44 Subpoena to answer and copy issued. Re¬ 
turned Served 4-18-34. 

May 8 Motion of deft, to dismiss bill, Notice, P. & 
A—App. U. S. Atty, Restine & Jones filed. 
19 Plff’s P & A in opposition to motion to 
dismiss & acknowledgment of service. 

44 Stipulation. 


1t 


i i 


i i 


i i 


i i 


t l 


i i 


44 June 6 Order granting Motion to dismiss 


& dis- 


i t 
11 

(e 

i i 


i < 
c i 

(i 
it 


missing Bill. 

19 Notation of plff. of appeal filed. 

“ Citation of appeal issued. Service accepted 
6/19/34. 1 

4 4 Assignment of Errors filed. 

20 Order setting appeal bond at $100 |or $50 

cash. 


64 


a 
11 


1934 June 20 Deposit by Donovan, Bond & Leisure for 

plff. in lieu of bond on appeal. 

44 44 Deposit by Donovan. 

July 9 Designation of Record filed. 

Designation of Record. 

Filed July 9, 1934. 

i 

* • * * * • H 

Plaintiff, National Air Transport, Inc., having perfected 
an appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the 



60 


NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., &C. VS. 


District of Columbia in the above-entitled cause, respect¬ 
fully requests the Clerk of this Court to prepare and make 
part of the transcript of record in this cause the following 
papers and proceedings: 

(1) Bill of Complaint and Exhibits. 

(2) Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss the Bill of Com¬ 
plaint. 

(3) Opinion of Mr. Justice O’Donoghue sustaining de¬ 
fendant’s Motion to Dismiss the Bill of Complaint. 

(4) Decree granting Motion to Dismiss and dismissing 
Bill of Complaint entered June 6, 1934. 

(5) Written Notation of Appeal. 

(6) Citation. 

(7) Order setting appeal bond at $100 or in lieu thereof 
$50 in cash. 

(8) Memorandum—$50 in cash paid June 20, 1934. 

(9) Assignment of Errors. 

(10) This Designation. 

(11) Docket entries. 

WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, 
i Attorney for Plaintiff. 


Service of foregoing acknowledged this 9th day of July, 
1934. 


LESLIE C. GARNETT, 

U. S. Attorney, 
Attorney for Defendant. 


65 Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. 

United States of America, 

District of Columbia, ss: 


I, Frank E.! Cunningham, Clerk of the Supreme Court 
of the District of Columbia, hereby certify the foregoing 
pages, numbered from 1 to 64, both inclusive, to be a true 
and correct transcript of the record, according to direc¬ 
tions of counsel herein filed, copy of which is made part 
of this transcript, in cause No. 57041 in Equity, wherein 
National Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, is Plaintiff 
and James A. Farley, an Individual, is Defendant, as the 
same remains upon the files and of record in said Court. 

In testimony whereof, I hereunto subscribe my name and 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


61 


affix the seal of said Court, at the City of Washington, in 
said District, this 15th day of August, 1934. 

[Seal Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.] 

FRANK E. CUNNINGHAM, 

\Clerk. 

Endorsed on cover: District of Columbia Suprenie Court. 
No. 6288. National Air Transport, Inc., &c., Appellant, 
vs. James A. Farley, an Individual. United States Court 
of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Filed Aug. 23, 
1934. Henry W. Hodges, Clerk. 




FILED AUGUST 23, 1934 


PRINTED SEPTEMBER 11, 1934 












United 


States Court of Appeals 
District of Columbia 

APRIL TERM, 1934. 

No. 6289 


for the 

I 

I 

I 

I 

i 

| 


I 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, A CORPORATION, 

APPELLANT, i 

vs. \ 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL, APPELLEE. 


APFHAL from the supreme court of the district} of 

COLUMBIA. 


INDEX. 

Original Print 


Caption . a 1 

Bill of complaint for injunction. 1 1 

Exhibit “A” . 22 18 

Exhibit “B” . 26 23 

Exhibit “C” . 32 29 

Exhibit “D” . 40 35 

Exhibit “E” . 44 40 

Motion to dismiss. 49 47 

Decree granting motion to dismiss. 50 48 

Notation of appeal. 50 48 

Citation on appeal. 51 48 

Order setting appeal bond. 51 49 

Memorandum: $50.00 deposit in lieu of bond on appeal- 52 49 

Assignment of errors. 52 49 

Docket entries . 54 50 

Designation of record. 54 51 

Clerk’s certificate . 56 52 


Judd & Detweiler (Inc.), Printers, Washington, D. C., September q, 1934. 


—l> 309~C. 






















I 

I 

I 

United States Court of Appeals fof the 

District of Columbia 

- I 

No. 6289. 

i 

Pacific Air Transport, a Corporation, Appellant, 

vs. j 

James A. Farley, an Individual. 

i 

a Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. 

In Equity. j 

No. 57042. j 

Pacific Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, Plaintiff, 

vs. 

James A. Farley, an Individual, Defendant. 

United States of America, 

District of Columbia, ss: 

Be it remembered, That in the Supreme Court of tjhe Dis¬ 
trict of Columbia, at the City of Washington, in s^id Dis¬ 
trict, at the times hereinafter mentioned, the following 
papers were filed and proceedings had, in the above-entitled 
cause, to wit: 

1 Bill of Complaint for Injunction. 

i 

Filed April 18,1934. j 

In the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, IJolding 

an Equity Court. 

i 

In Equity. 

No. 57042. ! 

i 

Pacific Air Transport, a Corporation, Plaintiff, 

against 

James A. Farley, an Individual, Defendant. 

To the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia folding 
a Court of Equity: 

The plaintiff, Pacific Air Transport, a corporation, brings 
its bill of complaint against the above named defendant 

1—6289a 




2 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


James A. Farley, the Postmaster General of the United 
States, individually, and respectfully shows unto this Hon¬ 
orable Court as follows: 

1. That the plaintiff, Pacific Air Transport, is a citizen 
of the United States, to wit, a corporation organized and 
existing under the laws of the State of Oregon; that the 
said plaintiff was organized January 9, 1926, and has its 
principal place of business in the City of Oakland, State of 
California, and that it is authorized, among other things, to 
engage in commerce and to carry on the business of trans¬ 
porting by air, passengers, freight, mail and other articles; 
that all of its officers, stockholders and directors are citizens 
of the United States. 

2 2. That the defendant James A. Farley is and 

since March 4, 1933 has been the duly appointed and 

acting Postmaster General of the United States, and is a 

citizen and resident of the United States and resides in the 

City of Washington, District of Columbia. The defendant 

Farley is sought herein to be restrained from doing certain 

acts purportedly as Postmaster General of the United 

States, which acts are not within the powers granted to him 

as Postmaster General by law and, therefore, if done, would 

not be official acts of the Government by its Postmaster 

General. The defendant Farlev is sued individually and 

• * 

not in his official capacity of Postmaster General of the 
United States. 

3. This suit arises under the Constitution and Laws of 
the United States. The particular provision of the Consti¬ 
tution involved is the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution 
and the particular laws involved are Revised Statutes, Sec¬ 
tion 3950, United States Code, Title 39, Section 465c, and 
the other statutes of the United States pertaining to the 
postal service. The amount in controversy exceeds the sum 
of $3,000 in value, exclusive of interest and costs. 

4. Plaintiff is advised and avers that the purported order 
of the defendant, dated February 9, 1934, hereinafter re¬ 
ferred to, purporting to annul the contracts for the carry¬ 
ing of air mail therein designated, is illegal and void be¬ 
cause beyond the authority, power or jurisdiction of the 
defendant, and because it is unconstitutional in that it re¬ 
sults in depriving the plaintiff of its property without due 
process of law and constitutes an illegal taking of its prop- 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


erty without just compensation in violation of t^ie Fifth 
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States. 

3 5. That on or about the 15th day of July, jL925, the 
then Postmaster General of the United Stages, pur¬ 
suant to Sections 421 and 464 of Title 39 of the United 
States Code, caused advertisements to be published re¬ 
questing that proposals or bids be submitted for tip carry¬ 
ing of mail by air for the route known as Route A. M. 8 
between the points of Seattle and Los Angeles, yia Port¬ 
land, Oregon, and San Francisco, California. 

6. That pursuant to such advertisements the fbllowing 
proposals or bids for carrying the mail for Route A. M. 8 
were submitted and opened, in accordance with Section 425 
of Title 39 of the United States Code, on September 15, 
1925: 

(a) Vern C. Gorst, North Bend, Oregon, at tip rate of 
75% of the postage revenue. 

(b) Western Air Express, Inc., at the rate of 80% of 
the postage revenue. 

(c) Wesley F. Crist, at the rate of 75% of the postage 
revenue. 

7. That on or about January 27, 1926, the then Post¬ 
master General, acting in acordance with Sections 429 and 
464 of Title 39 of the United States Code and in accordance 
with the other provisions of law, awarded the contract for 
the carrying of mail by air over Route A. M. 8 to jVern C. 
Gorst as being the lowest qualified bidder tendering suffi¬ 
cient guarantees for faithful performance in accordance 
with the terms of the advertisement. A copy of spd con¬ 
tract is annexed hereto as Exhibit “A” and madb a part 
hereof. The said Vern C. Gorst duly filed a performance 
bond in the amount of $10,000 as required by Sections 426 
and 427 of Title 39 of the United States Code. Th^t there¬ 
after, and on or about January 23, 1930, the said contract 

was duly extended for a period of six months. 

4 8. That thereafter on March 6, 1926 and prior to 
the time for the commencement of the service on 

Route A. M. 8, which was to begin April 26, 1926, the said 
contract between Vern C. Gorst and the United States was 
sublet, by Vern C. Gorst, to the plaintiff, Pacific Air Trans¬ 
port, with the concurrence and approval of the then Post¬ 
master General of the United States, in accordance with 



4 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


Section 445 of Title 39 of the United States Code and the 
other provisions of law. A copy of said subcontract is at¬ 
tached hereto and marked Exhibit “B” and made a part 
hereof. 

9. That the performance by the plaintiff under the con¬ 
tract began on Sept. 5, 1926 and such contract has never 
been sublet or transferred, except as stated in paragraph 
8 hereof, nor has any agreement been made with anyone to 
operate or perform part of the service required by such 
contract. Such contract, subcontract or route certificate, 
hereinafter referred to, was not awarded to the said Vern 
C. Gorst or to the plaintiff by fraud, collusion or any 
illegal means. Neither the said Vern C. Gorst nor the 
plaintiff have ever entered, or proposed to enter, into any 
combination to prevent the making of any bid for carrying 
the mail, nor have they, or either of them, made any agree¬ 
ment, given or performed, or promised to give or perform 
any consideration whatsoever to induce any other person 
not to bid for anv contract to carrv mail. 

10. That plaintiff has fully and satisfactorily performed 
all the services and complied with all the terms and condi¬ 
tions required by such contract and the laws of the United 
States and the rules, regulations and orders of the Post 
Office Department relating thereto. At all times the 
United States has accepted and paid for such services as 

satisfactorv. 

m 

5 11. That for many years it has been the policy of 

the United States Government and of the Post Office 
Department to foster commercial aviation. This policy in¬ 
cluded the encouragement of the maintenance of an air¬ 
craft manufacturing industry whose plants could be 
adapted to military needs in time of war, the maintenance 
of an air transport system in order to insure a reserve of 
trained pilots, and the development of more efficient air¬ 
planes, safety devices and equipment. To carry out this 
policy the Congress of the United States provided that the 
air mail should be carried by commercial air transport 
companies and not by an air mail service operated by the 
United States. To establish a reliable and efficient air mail 
service and to foster commercial aviation Congress enacted 
the following statutes, to wit: 

(A) On February 2, 1925, an Act known as the Air Mail 
Act (43 Stat. 805) was enacted. The Act gave the Post- 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


5 


master General authority to make contracts for the car¬ 
riage of mail by air. By the Act the pay of contractors 
was limited to four-fifths of the postal air mail jrevenue 
derived from the carriage of mail over a particular route, 
and contracts were let on the basis of the amount and 
weight of air mail actually carried. The contracts \Vere for 
a period of four years. The contract for Route A. ^1. 8 was 
made pursuant to this statute. 

(B) To establish and maintain air transportation serv¬ 
ice which would efficiently and safelv meet the needb of the 
public and of the air mail service, a large investment by the 
air transport companies was required. This investment 
was jeopardized by the fact that all existing air mail con¬ 
tracts were for a term of four years only. To protect this 
large investment and to give assurance to air transport 
companies that they could carry air mail for a period of 
ten years upon satisfactorily performing the services re¬ 
quired, Congress, on May 17, 1928, passed the so¬ 
ft called Kelly Act (45 Stat. 594), amending Section 3 

of the Act of February 2, 1925. This statute pro¬ 
vided that the Postmaster General, upon the surrender of 
the air mail contract bv a contractor who had satisfactorily 

9/ | 

performed the services therein provided for a period of 
two years or more, could issue in substitution therefor an 
air mail route certificate. Such certificate was to provide 
that for a period not to exceed ten years the holder] should 
have the right to carry air mail over the route set out in 
the certificate, as long as he complied with the rules, regu¬ 
lations and orders of the Postmaster General. The rate of 
compensation was to be determined by negotiation t>etween 
the certificate holder and the Postmaster General, but was 
not to exceed the rate of compensation provided in the 
original contract for carrying air mail. The Act al$o pro¬ 
vided that such certificates could be cancelled at anv time 

.r 

for willful neglect to carry out the rules, regulations or 
orders issued bv the Postmaster General, and that notice 
of such intended cancellation should be given in writing 
and an opportunity to answer such written notice of the 
Postmaster General should be afforded the holder. 

(C) Beginning in 1928, it was realized that the system 
adopted by the United States and the Post Office Depart¬ 
ment of paying air mail transport companies on th4 basis 
of the amount of mail carried was inequitable and unprofit- 



6 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


able to air transport companies. At that time compensa¬ 
tion was based on the amount of air mail carried without 
regard to the distance. To remove this inequitable method 
of payment and to promote the policy of developing an 
efficient air transportation service both for the carrying of 
passengers and of air mail. Congress passed the so-called 
Watres Act (39 United States Code, Section 465c), on April 
29, 1930, amending the Kelly Act mentioned in para- 
7 graph 11(b) hereof. The statute changed the basis 
of payment from the amount of air mail carried to 
the number and regularity of flights made between certain 
points by airplanes having a certain air mail space ca¬ 
pacity. The Act provides as follows: 

“The Postmaster General may, if in his judgment the 
public interest will be promoted thereby, upon the surren¬ 
der of anv air-mail contract, issue in substitution therefor 
a route certificate for a period of not exceeding ten years 
from the date service started under such contract to any 
contractor or subcontractor who has satisfactorily operated 
an air-mail route for a period of not less than two years, 
which certificate shall provide that the holder thereof shall 
have the right, so long as he complies with all rules, regu¬ 
lations, and orders that may be issued by the Postmaster 
General for meeting the needs of the Postal Service and 
adjusting mail operations to the advances in the art of 
flying and passenger transportation, to carry air mail over 
the route set out in the certificate or anv modification there- 
of at rates of compensation to be fixed from time to time, 
at least annually, by the Postmaster General, and he shall 
publish in his annual report his reasons for the continuance 
or the modification of any rates: Provided, That such rates 
shall not exceed $1.25 per mile. Such certificate may be 
cancelled at any time for willful neglect on the part of 
the holder to carry out any rules, regulations, or orders 
made for his guidance, notice of such intended cancellation 
to be given in writing by the Postmaster General and forty- 
five days allowed the holder in which to show cause why 
the certificate should not be cancelled.” 

12. On or about the 27th day of May, 1930, relying upon 
the above statute and the policy of Congress and the United 
States as above set forth, and upon its right to notice and 
opportunity for a hearing prior to any cancellation of its 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


7 


certificate, the plaintiff offered to surrender its contract 
for Route A.M. 8, in accordance with the provisions of 
the Watres Act. Pursuant to the authority vested in him 
under such Act, the Postmaster General accepted the sur¬ 
render of the said contract and issued in substitution there¬ 
for Route Certificate A.M. 8 to the plaintiff. A copy of 
such Route Certificate A.M. 8 is annexed hereto marked 
Exhibit “C” and is made a part hereof. According to the 
terms of said route certificate the plaintiff carrier 
8 for the period ending April 5, 1936, was Obligated 
to make two flights each day at certain houifs of the 
day and night, by planes having a specified air majl capac¬ 
ity, over the route from Seattle, Washington, via Portland 
and San Francisco, to Los Angeles, California, and return. 
During this period it was granted the right, upon the terms 
and conditions mentioned in such certificate, to receive 
therefor the compensation set forth in the certificate and 
the right to carrv United States air mail over such route. 

By the terms of such certificate 60 days’ notice is re¬ 
quired before the Postmaster General (a) could [modify 
said route by an extension, or prescribe the schedule of 
stops thereon or determine the mileage upon which the 
compensation of the carrier is to be based; or (b) increase, 
diminish or modify the service prescribed in the certificate 
or make adjustment in the compensation of the carrier. 
The certificate further provides that the certificate can be 
cancelled by the Postmaster General for willful neglect to 
carry out any rules or orders for its guidance upofi forty- 
five days’ notice, and that it can be cancelled for breach 
of the condition prescribed in paragraph 12 of thej certifi¬ 
cate. By virtue of this certificate the plaintiff acquired a 
vested property right to carry air mail and recdive the 
compensation specified upon compliance with the tefms and 
conditions of the certificate. 

13. That thereafter, the Post Office Department 1 of the 
United States, in accordance with law, ordered thq plain¬ 
tiff to extend its air mail service from Los Angeleb, Cali¬ 
fornia, south to San Diego, California. The length of this 
extension is 120 miles and service began on July 1930. 
The plaintiff has duly performed all the services required 
with reference to the carriage of mail over this extended 
route. 




8 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


9 14. Pursuant to said Route Certificate, the plain¬ 
tiff entered into the performance of its duties under 

said certificate and has duly performed all of the terms 
and conditions thereof on its part to be performed. The 
plaintiff has violated no law, rule or order of the United 
States or of the Post Office Department either in obtain¬ 
ing its route certificates or in the operation of its transport 
facilities which would give cause or justification for the 
cancellation of such certificates. 

15. In reliance upon the rights conferred by such route 
certificates to carry mail for a period of ten years, the 
plaintiff, in accordance with the obligations of the certifi¬ 
cates, has supplied night and day flying service for passen¬ 
gers, express and air mail, and has made a very substan¬ 
tial investment in land, buildings and improvements, air¬ 
planes, engines and other equipment. In reliance upon 
the rights granted to the plaintiff under said route cer¬ 
tificates, it has built a large business having a value as 
a going concern of many millions of dollars. In reliance 
upon said route certificates, the plaintiff has entered into 
many long-term leases of property in connection with its 
air transport facilities. All of its property is specially 
adapted to its business as a carrier of passengers, mail and 
express by air over said routes, and has no substantial 
value except in its business. In order to comply with the 
terms of said route certificates the plaintiff has incurred 
obligations in large amounts for the purchase of additional 
flying equipment. The plaintiff employs many employees, 
including pilots, mechanics and clerks whose employment 
depends upon the continued performance by the plaintiff 
of its obligations under said route certificates. 

16. That on the 15th day of July, 1931, the plaintiff en¬ 
tered into a management contract (a copy of which 

10 is attached hereto and marked Exhibit “D”) with 
United Air Lines, Inc., a Delaware corporation, 

under the terms of which the United Air Lines, Inc., was 
to serve as a coordinating agency for the plaintiff’s busi¬ 
ness and that of National Air Transport, Inc., Varney Air 
Lines, Inc. and Boeing Air Transport, Inc., as constituting 
an integrated airline service known as the 4 ‘United Sys¬ 
tem.” The purpose and effect of such management con¬ 
tract was to promote economy and efficiency in such oper¬ 
ating companies, to reduce their operating, administrative, 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


9 


general accounting, engineering, advertising and purchas¬ 
ing expenses, and to assist in the policy adopted by the 
United States to foster commercial aviation and kir mail 
service. 

Each of the companies in the United System opejrates as 
an independent unit. The operations of the United! System 
consist of air transportation over the following roiites: 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc. —Route A.M. 18—20^7 miles 
—Chicago, Illinois to San Francisco, California via Omaha, 
Nebraska and Salt Lake City, Utah. Extensions: Omaha, 
Nebraska to Watertown, South Dakota—259 mile^. 

Route A.M. 30 (part thereof sublet from American Air¬ 
ways, Inc.)—239 miles—Omaha, Nebraska to Kansas City, 
Kans. 

National Air Transport, Inc. —Route A.M. 3—1048 miles 
—Chicago, Illinois to Dallas, Texas, via Kansas City, Kan¬ 
sas: Wichita, Kansas; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; ^ind via 
Kansas City, Kansas; Tulsa, Oklahoma, including Ponca 
City, Oklahoma, to Tulsa, Oklahoma, and Oklahoma City 
to Tulsa. i 

Route A.M. 17—736 miles—New York City to Chicago 
via Cleveland. 

Pacific Air Transport. —Route A.M. 8—1238 iniles— 
Seattle, Washington, to San Diego, California, vjia San 
Francisco, California. 

Varney Air Lines, Inc. —Route A.M. 5—1017 miles—Salt 
Lake City, Utah, to Portland, Seattle and Spokane, Wash¬ 
ington, via Boise, Idaho. 

11 17. The United System has flown over 65 million 

miles, a greater mileage than has been flown by any 
other air transportation system. Of this total miles ap¬ 
proximately half were flown at night. It is generally con¬ 
sidered to be the most efficient air transport system in the 
world. It has a record of completing about 96 per cent of 
its scheduled trips. The United System carried air mail 
in an amount over three million pounds per annum. This 
is over 40 per cent of the total air mail in the United States. 
In accordance with the desires of the United Stated Gov¬ 
ernment, United Air Lines, Inc., has built up its passenger 
business from 25,000 passengers in 1930 to over 160,000 in 
1933. The United Air Lines, Inc. has a total investment 
in land, buildings, etc., of over $2,750,000, and a total in- 



10 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


vestment in flying equipment of over $4,500,000. The capi¬ 
tal and surplus of United Air Lines, Inc. is over $8,000,000. 
Payments by the United States for carrying air mail have 
steadily decreased from a total of about $8,000,000 in 1931 
to a total of about $5,000,000 in 1933. During the last six 
months of 1933, United Air Lines, Inc. received for carry¬ 
ing air mail an average of 1.6 mills per pound-mile. This 
is almost exactly the amount the Post Office Department 
receives from stamp revenue from air mail. The United 
System during the la-t six months of 1933 received about 
45% of its operating revenue in carrying mail and about 
52*4% in carrying passengers, the balance being mostly 
received from carrying express. The average speed of 
operation has been increased from 115 miles per hour in 
1927 to over 170 miles per hour in 1933. The equipment 
of the United System is the best procurable. In purchas¬ 
ing such equipment, no price advantage is given to the 
United System. United Air Lines, Inc. and its operating 
companies have never paid excessive salaries and 
12 have not paid any bonuses of any nature. The ad¬ 
ministrative costs have been less than half those of 
any other comparable air line. The affiliation of plaintiff 
with the United System has resulted in the development 
of a reliable and efficient air mail and passenger service 
over Route A.M. 8, has made available to plaintiff greater 
flying equipment and other facilities for emergency periods, 
and has thus fostered commercial aviation and the air 
mail service. 

18. That on February 9, 1934, without giving notice or 
opportunity for hearing to the plaintiff, defendant James 
A. Farley, purporting to act in his official capacity as 
Postmaster General of the United States, but in reality 
acting individually, arbitrarily and without any proper or 
adequate examination of the facts, capriciously and with¬ 
out any legal authority therefor, and acting outside and 
beyond the scope of the exercise of discretionary power 
granted him as Postmaster General by law, issued a writ¬ 
ing purporting to be an order issued in his official capacity 
as Postmaster General, purporting to cancel the plaintiff’s 
Route Certificate No. A. M. 8. A copy of this purported 
order is set forth below: 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


I 

I 


11 


“February 9,j 1934. 

■ 

“Pursuant to the authority vested in me by Section 3950, 
Revised Statutes of the United States, Act of June 8, 1872 
(39 United States Code, Section 432), and by virtue of the 
general powers of the Postmaster General, it is ordered 
that the following air mail contracts be, and they ar^ hereby 
annulled effective midnight February 19, 1934, vizj: 


“Route number. Contracts held by. 

i 

A. M. 1. American Airways, Inc. 

A. M. 2. American Airwavs, Inc. 

A. M. 3. National Air Transport, Inc. 

A. M. 4. Western Air Express, Inc. 

A. M. 5. Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

A. M. 8. Pacific Air Transport. 


13 


A.M. 9 
A.M. 9 
A. M. 11 
A. M. 12 
A. M. 17 
A. M. 18 
A. M. 19 
A. M. 20 
A. M. 21 
A. M. 22 
A. M. 23 
A. M. 24 
A. M. 20 
A. M. 27 
A. M. 29 
A. M. 30 
A. M. 30 
A. M. 30 
A. M. 33 
A. M. 34 


Northwest Airways, Inc. 

Kohler Aviation Corporation. 
Pennsylvania Airlines, Inc. 

Western Air Express, Inc. 

National Air Transport, Inc. 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

Eastern Air Transport, Inc. | 
American Airways, Inc. 

American Airways, Inc. 

American Airways, Inc. 

American Airways, Inc. 

American Airways, Inc. 

National Parks Airways, Inc. 

American Airw’ays, Inc. 

American Airways, Inc. 

American Airways, Inc. 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

United States Airwavs, Inc. 

American Airways, Inc. 
Transcontinental and Western Air, Inc. 

i > 


“(Signed) JAMES A. FARLEY, 

Postmaster General” 

19. On February 10, 1934, the plaintiff received from the 
defendant a telegram reading as follows: 





























12 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


“You are hereby notified that I have entered the follow¬ 
ing order pursuant to the authority vested in me by Sec¬ 
tion 3950 Revised Statutes of the United States, Act of 
June 8, 1872, and 39 U. S. Code Section 432, and by virtue 
of the general powers of the Postmaster General it is 
ordered that the following air mail contracts be and thev 
are hereby annulled effective midnight February 195, 1934, 
viz, route certificates and contracts held bv vou and in- 
eluding contract air mail route No. 8. You are instructed 
to receive no mail for transportation hereafter that cannot 
reach its destination with the effective date of the order. 

“JAMES A. FARLEY, 
Postmaster General 

20. That since February 19, 1934, as a result of such pur¬ 
ported order as set forth in paragraph 18 hereof, the plain¬ 
tiff has received no mail for transportation as provided in 
its said Route Certificate No. 8. The plaintiff alleges that 
the defendant Farley is attempting to carry out such pur¬ 
ported order, and the plaintiff is informed and believes 

that the defendant Farley has issued instructions to 
14 the various Postmasters in the United States that 
plaintiff’s route certificates have been cancelled and 
that no mail is to be delivered to it. 

21. That plaintiff since February 9, 1934 has duly filed 
with the Postmaster General its protests against his action 
in declaring that Route Certificate A. M. 8 was annulled, 
and plaintiff furthermore has notified the Postmaster Gen¬ 
eral that it has been and is at all times ready, able and 
willing to comply with all the terms and conditions of its 
said Route Certificates, to wit, as follows: 

(a) On February 16, 1934, plaintiff wrote a letter to de¬ 
fendant Farley, reading as follows: 

“P. 0. Box 00, 

Chicago, Illinois, 

! Februarv 16, 1934. 

The Honorable James A. Farley, 

Postmaster General, 

Washington, D. C. 

Dear Mr. Postmaster General: 

Receipt is acknowledged of your letter of February 13, 
1934, enclosing copy of the order and telegram therein 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. i 13 

i 

referred to, by which order you have directed tljat Air 
Mail Contract No. 8 be annulled effective February ip, 1934. 

As authority for your action, you appear to rel[y upon 
Section 432 of Title 3*9 of the United States Code, which pro¬ 
vides for the annulment of mail contracts in certain cases 
of combinations or agreements to prevent bidding. We 
respectfully protest that that section furnishes no justifica¬ 
tion for the action which vou have taken in the case of this 

* 

Company. We have at no time entered into any such combi¬ 
nation or agreement. 

We have seen reference in the public press to the charge 
that contracts for the carriage of air mail were let pur¬ 
suant to collusive agreements reached at a so-called con¬ 
ference of air mail operators called at the direction ojt Post¬ 
master General Walter F. Brown in the spring of 1930. 
No such collusive agreement was made by us. In th^s con¬ 
nection, we respectfully call your attention to the fact that 
the air mail contract covering this Company’s rouj:e was 
awarded under date of December 31, 1925, prior to 
15 the said conference and after competitive bidcling in 
which the original contractors, our predecessors in 
interest, were the lowest qualified bidders. No extension 
has ever been made of the said route except the short exten¬ 
sion between Los Angeles and San Diego, ordered t>y the 
Postmaster General on July 1, 1930, which extension was 
made within both the letter and the spirit of the sojcalled 
‘Watres Act.’ ! 

Since your contemplated action would work irreparable 
damage to the Company, its employees and shareholders, 
we respectfully request that the order above referred to be 
suspended until such time as opportunity shall have been 
had for a hearing, to which we believe you will recognize 
we are entitled as a matter both of right and of equity. 

Respectfully yours, 

(Signed) W. A. PATTERSON, 

President, 

Pacific Air Transport.” 

(b) On February 16, 1934 plaintiff, together witfi the 
other three corporations affiliated with it, as hereingbove 
in paragraph 16 set forth, wrote a letter to defendant] Far¬ 
ley setting forth the facts surrounding the initial letting of 
contracts to the several companies constituting the United 



14 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


Air Lines. ; A copy of this letter is attached hereto and 
marked Exhibit “E”. 

(c) On February 19,1934 plaintiff sent the following tele¬ 
gram to defendant Farley: 

“Chicago, Illinois, 
February 19, 1934. 

“Honorable James A. Farley, 

Postmaster General, 

Washington, D. C. 

“This company is ready comma able and willing to fly 
planes and carry mail as required by air mail route certifi¬ 
cate for route eight Stop Respectfully request you issue 
appropriate instructions to postmasters to deliver air mail 
to us as heretofore. 

PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT.” 

(d) On March 7, 1934 plaintiff, together with the three 
affiliated companies as in subdivision (b) above men- 

16 tioned, having received no reply to any of the afore¬ 
said communications, wrote defendant Farley 
another letter reading as follows: 

“New York City, 

March 7, 1934. 

“Honorable James A. Farley, 

Postmaster General of the United States, 

Washington, D. C. 

Dear Sir: 

On the 16th dav of February, 1934, we wrote vou, setting 
forth the facts surrounding the initial letting of contracts 
to the several companies constituting the United Air Lines. 

In that letter, to which we have received no reply, we as¬ 
serted our belief that you had been misinformed concerning 
our participation in the so-called conference of air mail 
operators, held at the Post Office Department, on the 19th 
day of May,; 1930, and requested an opportunity of meeting 
with you in order that we might fully advise you of our 
position. 

In the three weeks intervening, since writing you, certain 
events have made our situation more critical. We are now 
losing in excess of $250,000 a month, a great number of em- 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AH’ INDIVIDUAL. 


15 


ploy os are being retained unnecessarily if we are no longer 
to carry the air mail, and, in addition, we have been Refused 
full payment due for services rendered during the months 
of Januarv and Februarv. 

- •> i 

From this it is apparent that in fairness to our stock¬ 
holders and to our employes, we must speedily determine 
our course of action. We again respectfully request the 
opportunity of presenting to you all the facts relative; to our 
air mail contracts. ! 

“Yours verv trulv, 

“BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INCi., 
NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, 

VARNEY AIR LINES, INC., I 

Bv UNITED AIR LINES, INC., j 

(Signed) P. G. JOHNSON, 

Pres / 7 

i 

i 

22. Plaintiff is advised and alleges that the purported 
order and telegram set forth in paragraphs 18 and 19 hereof 
are illegal, void and beyond the power and jurisdiction of 
the defendant Farley to make, in that: j 

17 (a) the plaintiff has not violated any law, regula¬ 

tion or order pertaining to the postal service; | 

(b) the plaintiff has complied with all of the terijns or 
conditions of the said route certificate; 

(c) the defendant Farley has no power or authority 
under the laws of the United States relating to the postal 
service, and particularly under Revised Statutes, Section 
3950, to annul or cancel said route certificates; 

(d) the provisions of Revised Statutes, Section 3950, are 

not applicable to route certificates issued for carrying air 
mail; | 

(e) such route certificates can be annulled only by ptoper 

judicial proceeding for that purpose; [ 

(f) in any event, such route certificates cannot be can¬ 
celed or annulled without giving to the plaintiff proper no¬ 
tice and opportunity to be heard and present evidence in 
refutation of any reasons which may be given for ^uch 
proposed cancellation or annulment; 

(g) the action of Farley was otherwise not in accordance 

with law. ! 


16 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


23. That the plaintiff is being deprived of its property 
without due process of law in violation of the Fifth Amend¬ 
ment to the Constitution of the United States in that it has 
not been notified of or given an opportunity to be heard 
as to whether its route certificates should be canceled or 
whether it has violated any of the rules, regulations or 
orders of the Postmaster General, and in that the action 
of the Postmaster General in purporting to annul the route 
certificate of the plaintiff is wholly arbitrary, capricious, 
illegal and without authority or color of law. 

18 24. Plaintiff further alleges that upon information 

and belief the defendant Farley intends to prevent 
the plaintiff from bidding on any mail contract or carriage 
for a period of five years as a penalty for an alleged viola¬ 
tion of Revised Statutes, Section 3950, and that such pre¬ 
vention would be illegal and contrary to the Constitution 
and laws of the United States and would deprive the plain¬ 
tiff of its liberty and of a valuable right and cause it irre- 
parable damage for which the plaintiff has no adequate 
remedy at law. It will be forced to discharge its pilots, 
mechanics and other employees, since without the revenue 
derived from the said route certificates the plaintiff can¬ 
not operate except with irreparable damage to the plaintiff 
and its stockholders. The purported cancellation of its 
route certificate has caused and will continue to cause the 
plaintiff to be deprived of its property in that that prop¬ 
erty is without substantial value except in connection with 
its business of transporting passengers and air mail. Such 
purported cancellation will compel the plaintiff to abrogate 
many contracts, leases and obligations which it has in¬ 
curred, and such abrogation will result in irreparable in¬ 
jury to the plaintiff and many other persons. Such pur¬ 
ported cancellation of its route certificate has caused and 
will continue to cause damage to the plaintiff which will 
be incapable of being measured and adjudicated at law. 

25. The plaintiff is without a clear, adequate and speedy 
remedy at law, and only by the injunctive process of this 
Court can it be fully protected in the enjoyment of its prop¬ 
erty rights under the route certificate and under the Con¬ 
stitution and laws of the United States and in the protec¬ 
tion of its business, property and good will. 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


IT 


Wherefore, inasmuch as the plaintiff is without remedy 
except in a Court of Equity and to the enci that it 

19 may obtain from this Court the relief to whjich it is 
by right and equity entitled, the plaintiff res 

prays: 

(A) That the defendant be directed to answer this bill 

I 

of complaint, but not under oath, the answer un^er oath 
being hereby expressly waived. 

i 

(B) That the defendant, his agents, subordinate- pnd em¬ 

ployees and each of them be enjoined and restrained from 
in any manner enforcing or attempting to enforce the pur¬ 
ported order of the defendant Farley, dated February 9, 
1934, purporting to annul the plaintiff’s Route Certificate 
A. M. 8. j 

(C) That the defendant Farley be commanded and di¬ 
rected by this Court to revoke so much of his purported 
order of February 9, 1934, set forth in paragraph 18 hereof, 
as relates to Route A. M. 8. 

(D) That defendant Farley be enjoined and restrained 
from imposing or attempting to impose any penalty upon 
plaintiff by reason of the said purported order. 

(E) That the plaintiff have judgment against defendant 
Farley for all such damages as, upon the determination of 
this cause, shall be found by this Court to have been paused 
to plaintiff by the unauthorized, unlawful and arbitrary 
acts of defendant Farley, herein complained of. 

(F) That the plaintiff have such other and further] relief 

as to the Court may seem just and equitable in the prem¬ 
ises. | 

(G) And plaintiff further prays that a hearing ahd de¬ 
termination of this suit be had as soon as the defendant 
has been serviced and given a reasonable opportunity to 
answer this suit, and that upon final hearing the defend¬ 
ant, his agents, subordinates and employees, and each of 
them, be enjoined and restrained perpetually as herein¬ 
before prayed. Plaintiff also prays that a writ of 

20 subpoena issue herein directed to the above-pamed 



2—6289a 



18 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


defendant commanding him on a day certain to appear and 
answer this bill of complaint. 

PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, 
(Signed) By WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, 

Its Attorney. 

WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, 

Attorney for Plaintiff , 

1010 Shoreham Building, 

Washington, D. C. 

FREDERICK W. JACKSON, 

Of Counsel. 

Verification. 

William J. Donovan, being first duly sworn, under oath 
deposes and says: 

That he is the attorney for the complainant above-named. 
The said complainant is a foreign corporation and has no 
officer or agent in the District of Columbia; therefore he 
makes this verification for and on behalf of said complain¬ 
ant, and as its said attorney; that he has read the foregoing 
bill of complaint and knows the contents thereof; that his 
knowledge of the matters alleged in said bill is derived 
from personal investigation of the facts, conferences with 
officers and employees of the complainant corpora- 

21 tion, examination of the contracts, route certificates 
and correspondence between the complainant and 

officers of the Post Office Department; that he verily be¬ 
lieves the facts in the forejoins bill of complaint to be true. 
(Signed) ^ WILLIAM J. DONOVAN. 

Subscribed and sworn to before me this 16tli dav of April, 
1934. 

(Signed) RICHARD A. MAHAR, 

[seal.] Notary Public , D. C. 

22 Exhibit “A”. 

Contract for Air Mail Service. 

Route No. C. A. M. 8. 

Contractor’s Address: Vern C. Gorst, North Bend, 
Oregon. 



I 

I 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 19 

I 

Route: Seattle, Wash., by Portland and Medford, Oregon, 
Sacramento, San Francisco, Fresno and Bakersfield, Cali¬ 
fornia, to Los Angeles, California, and return. 

Rate of Pay: Seventy-five per cent of the postajge reve¬ 
nue. 

i 

This article of contract, made the 31st dav of December 
nineteen hundred and twenty-five between the United States 
of America (acting in this behalf by the Postmaster Gen¬ 
eral) and Vern C. Gorst of North Bend, Oregon, Con¬ 
tractor; 

7 i 

Witnesseth, that whereas Vern C. Gorst has been ac¬ 
cepted according to law as contractor for transporting the 
mails on Route No. C. A. M. 8 from Seattle, Wash., Ipy Port¬ 
land and Medford, Oregon, Sacramento, San Francisco, 
Fresno and Bakersfield, California to Los Angelas, Cali¬ 
fornia and return under an advertisement issued by the 
Postmaster General on July 15,1925 for such service, which 
advertisement is hereby referred to and made li>y such 
reference a part of this contract, at the rate of seventy-five 
per cent of the postage revenue for a period not exceeding 
four (4) years from date of execution of this contract until 
terminated. | 

Now, therefore, the said contractor undertakes covenants 
and agrees with the United States of America, j 

First. To carry the mails offered with due celerity, cer¬ 
tainty and security and in safe and suitable aircraft} on the 
route described and on the schedule set forth by the Post¬ 
master General, the contractor to receive and deliver the 
mails at the designated field and point on said fjield as 
approved by the Postmaster General. 

Second. To carry said mails in a safe and secure njianner, 
free from wet or other injury. 

23 Third. To be accountable and answerable i]n dam¬ 
ages for the person to whom the contractor shall 
commit the care and transportation of the mails and his 
faithful performance of the obligations assumed herein and 
those imposed by law; not to commit the care or transporta¬ 
tion of the mails to any person under sixteen years pf age, 
nor to any person undergoing a sentence of imprisonment 
at hard labor imposed by a court having criminal jurisdic¬ 
tion, nor to any person not authorized by law to be con¬ 
cerned in contracts for carrying the mails. 



20 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


Fourth. For which service when performed and evidence 
thereof shall have been filed with the Postmaster General, 
the said contractor is to be paid by the United States at the 
rate specified above, payments to be made monthly and as 
soon after the close of each month as accounts can be ad¬ 
justed and settled, said pay to be subject, however, to be 
reduced or discontinued bv the Postmaster General as 
hereinafter stipulated or to be suspended in case of de¬ 
linquency. 

Fifth. It is hereby also stipulated and agreed that de¬ 
ductions in pay will be made for suffering the mails to be¬ 
come wet, injured, or destroyed, or when a grade of service 
is rendered inferior to that stipulated in the contract, or for 
the loss of or depredation upon the mails in the custody of 
the contractor or his agent, provided the loss is occasioned 
bv their fault. 

Sixth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed by the 
contractor that the Postmaster General mav annul the con- 
tract or impose forfeitures in his discretion, for repeated 
failures or for failure to perform service according to 
contract; for violating the Postal Laws and Regulations; 
for subletting service without the consent of the Post¬ 
master General, or assigning or transferring the contract; 
for combining to prevent others from bidding for the per¬ 
formance of postal service and such annulment shall not 
impair the right of the Department to claim damages from 
the contractor and his sureties. 

Seventh. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed that 
this contract may be terminated whenever in the judgment 
of the Postmaster General, the interests of the Postal Serv¬ 
ice shall so require, upon serving notice upon the con¬ 
tractor at least 45 days prior to such termination. Pro¬ 
vided, that in case of such discontinuance of service, as a 
full indemnity to the contractor, one month’s extra pay, 
based on the average pay for the preceding six months 
period, or full period of service if less than six months, 
shall be allowed. 

Eighth. It is hereby further stipulated and agreed that 
no Member of or Delegate to Congress shall be admitted to 
any share or part of this contract or agreement, or any 
benefit to arise therefrom. 

(a) It is hereby further stipulated and agreed that the 
revenue herein referred to in connection with the rate of 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


21 


pay applies to the special air mail postage reqpired for 
transportation over this route only, and does nqt include 
registry or special delivery postage, or any additional post¬ 
age necessary for the transportation of the mail! involved 
over other or connecting air mail routes; also that this 
contract may, in the discretion of the Postmaster General, 
be continued in force beyond its express terms foi] a period 
of not exceeding six months until a new contract with the 
same or other contractors shall be made by the Postmaster 
General. 


24 Ninth. That at any time during the continuance 
of this contract the Postmaster General may require 
new or additional sureties upon the bond hereto [annexed, 
if, in his opinion, such sureties are necessary for the proper 
protection of the interests of the United States; bnd that 
the contractor shall furnish such sureties to the satisfac¬ 
tion of the Postmaster General within ten days aftpr notice 
so to do; and in default thereof this contract may be an¬ 
nulled, at the option of the Postmaster General. | 

Tenth. The contractor expressly warrants thalf he has 
employed no third person to solicit or obtain this contract 
in his behalf, or to cause or procure the same to be bbtained 
upon compensation in any way contingent, in whole or in 
part upon such procurement; and that he has not paid, or 
promised or agreed to pay, to any third person, in con¬ 
sideration of such procurement, or in compensation for 
services in connection therewith, any brokerage, 'commis¬ 
sion, or percentage upon the amount receivable by him 
hereunder, and that he has not, in estimating the Contract 
price demanded by him, included any sum by reason of 
any such brokerage, commission, or percentage a|nd that 
all money payable to him hereunder is free from obliga¬ 
tion to any other person for services rendered, or supposed 
to have been rendered, in the procurement of this Contract. 
He further agrees that any breach of this warranty shall 
constitute adequate cause for the annulment of tjiis con¬ 
tract by the United States, and that the United Stages may 
retain to its own use from any sums due or to become due 
thereunder an amount equal to any brokerage, coiminission, 
or percentage so paid, or agreed to be paid. 

Eleventh. It is hereby further stipulated and agireed by 
the contractor that this contract is subject to all the con¬ 
ditions imposed by law, and by the several acts of Con- 



22 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


gress relating to post offices and post roads, and the con¬ 
ditions stated in the advertisement pursuant to which this 
contract is made. 

In witness fhereof, the Postmaster General has executed 
in behalf of* the United States and caused the seal of the 
Post Office Department to be affixed thereto, and the said 
contractor has hereunto set his hand and seal. (The type¬ 
written changes and additions were made before this con¬ 
tract was signed.) 

Signed, sealed, and delivered in behalf of the United 
States this 27th dav of January 1926. 

‘UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
HARRY S. NEW, 

, Postmaster General . 

Witness to signature of Postmaster General: 

ALICE MUMMENHOFF. 

Signed this 26th dav of Januarv 1926. 

VERN C. GORST, 

Contractor. 


Witness- to signature of contractor: 

GRACE T. NICHOLS. 

J. B. ALEXANDER. 

25 Certificate of Oath by the Contractor. 

(Required by Law.) 

I, the undersigned, being employed in the care, custody 
and conveyance of the mail as contractor on the route 
named in the foregoing contract, do solemnly swear that 
I will faithfully perform all duties required of me, and 
abstain from everything forbidden by the laws, in relation 
to the establishment of Post Offices and Post Roads within 
the United States, and that I will honestlv and trulv ac- 
count for and pay over any money belonging to the said 
United States which may come into my possession or 
control. 

And I also further swear that I will support the Consti¬ 
tution of the United States. So help me God. 

; VERN C. GORST, 

Contractor . 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


23 


Sworn before the subscriber a Notary Public, State of 
D. of C. this 26th day of January 1926, and I also certify 
that the person named is not a postmaster, assistant post¬ 
master, or a clerk employed in a post office, nor g member 
of the immediate family of a postmaster or assistant post¬ 
master, and is to the best of my knowledge and belief, above 
the age of tiventv-one years. j 

CHARLES E. WARREN. 

Commission expires Nov. 4, 1930. 

Approved as to form: 

HORACE J. DONNELLY, 

Solicitor. 

Approved as to fact: 

W. IRVING GLOVRR, 
Second Asst . Postmaster General. 

26 Exhibit “B.” j 

Subcontract for Mail Service. 

Route No. C. A. M. 8. 

This article of contract, made the 6th day of Match nine¬ 
teen hundred and twenty-six between Vern C. Gorst of 
North Bend, County of Coos and State of Oregon, con¬ 
tractor with the United States, party of the fifst part, 
and Pacific Air Transport, a corporation of the State of 
Oregon, of-, County of-and State of- i subcon¬ 
tractor, party of the second part, and - of --, his 

sureties; 

Witnesseth, that whereas the said party of the first part 
has executed a contract with the United States (acting in 
this behalf by the Postmaster General) according to law, 
for transporting the air mail on Route No. C.A.Mj. 8 from 
Seattle, State of Washington to Los Angeles State of Cali¬ 
fornia, and back, time- a week, from 191—, to 

-, 191—, on the schedule prescribed by the Pcjst Office 

Department, and having obtained conditional permission 
to sublet the same, has made the following agreement with 
the said party of the second part, to wit: 

The said party of the second part, and his sureties afore¬ 
said, do jointly and severally undertake, covenant, and 



24 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


agree, and do bind themselves and each of them to and 
with the said party of the first part in the sum of ten 
thousand ($10,000.00) dollars, to transport the United 
States Mail on the said Route No. C.A.M. 8, from Seattle, 
Washington By Air Mail To Los Angeles, California, and 
back (including the depositing and collecting of mail along 
the route, as provided by the advertisement), — times 

a week, from the — day of-, 191—, to - 191—, 

inclusive, on such schedule as the Postmaster General may 
direct and in full compliance with the postal laws and 
regulations, and subject to all the requirements of the 
said party of the first part under the said contract with 
the United States, for compensation as provided for in 
said Air Mail Contract — dollars per annum. 

And it is hereby further agreed that liability for all fines 
and deductions imposed upon the party of the first part 
by the Postmaster General, for failures and delinquencies 
in the performance of service under his contract, shall be 
assumed and borne by the party of the second part, and, 
if necessary, [the Auditor for the Post Office Department 
may enforce this agreement by proper deductions from any 
compensation due the party of the second part for service 
performed under this subcontract. 

And it is hereby further agreed that for any additional 
service required by the Postmaster General, and not here¬ 
inbefore expressly stipulated, the party of the second part 
shall be allowed not to exceed a pro rata increase of com¬ 
pensation; and, in case of decrease, curtailment or dis¬ 
continuance of service as full indemnity, a pro rata of the 
one month’s extra pay allowed by the United States to 
the party of the first part, and, unless previously herein 
stipulated, not to exceed a pro rata compensation for the 
service retained. 

And it is hereby further agreed that in case of failure 
or refusal by the party of the second part to perform the 
mail service herein provided for, then the sum hereinbe¬ 
fore stipulated shall become immediately due to the party 
of the first part as liquidated damages and not as a pen¬ 
alty, and, in default of payment thereof, may be recovered 
in an action of debt. 

27 To the faithful performance of each and every 
covenant and agreement hereinbefore mentioned the 
parties do bind themselves and each of them and their heirs 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


25 


and personal representatives, and in testimony thereof do 
hereunto set their hands and seals, the day and year set 
opposite their respective names. 

Signed this 6th dav of March, 1926. 

PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, [seal.] 

By VERN C. GORST, j 

President. 


By C. H. GREEN, [seal.] 

Secretary. 

VERN C. GORST, [seal.] 

Surety. 

Signed this — day of-, 19—. 

Signed this — day of-, 19—. 

28 Certificate of the Oath of Mail Contractors and 

Carriers. 

Required by Law. 

i 

i 

Take this Oath after signing the foregoing Subcontract 

I, Vern C. Gorst and C. H. Greene, President and Secre¬ 
tary respectively, of Pacific Air Transport, a corporation, 
being entrusted with the care, custody and conveyance of 
the mail, as sub-contractor on the air mail route named in 
the foregoing sub-contract, do solemnly swear that tjhe said 
Pacific Air Transport, a corporation, will faithfully per¬ 
form all the duties required, and abstain from everything 
forbidden by law, and that said corporation will honestly 
and truly account for and pay over any moneys belonging 
to the said United States which may come into my posses¬ 
sion, or control, and I do further solemnly swear thalt I will 
support and defend the Constitution of the United States 
against all enemies, foreign or domestic. So help me God. 


President. 

C. H. GREENE, 

Secretary. 

Sub-Contract or. 

State of Oregon, i 

County of Multnomah, ss: 

Subscribed and sworn to before me by C. H. Greene, 
Secretary of Pacific Air Transport, a corporation !of the 
State of Oregon, this the 6th day of March, 1926. I also 



26 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


certify that i the person above named is not a postmaster, 
assistant postmaster or clerk employed in a post office, nor 
a member of the immediate family of a postmaster or 
assistant postmaster, and is to the best of my knowledge 
and belief above the age of sixteen years ; that he is com¬ 
petent and has the pecuniary ability'' to provide the service, 
and is of sufficient intelligence to properly handle and de¬ 
posit the mail for boxes along the route. 

E. V. LITTLEFIELD, 
Notary Public for Oregon . 

My commission expires March 22, 1929. 

Note.— This oath may be administered by a postmaster, 
but not by a deputy, assistant, or acting postmaster. The 
person who takes the oath should sign his name on the line 
immediately above the word (subcontractor). 

State of Oregon, 

County of Multnomah, ss: 

Subscribed and sworn to before me by Vern C. Gorst, 
President of Pacific Air Transport, a corporation of the 
State of Oregon, this the 19th day of March, 1926. I also 
certify that the person above named is not a postmaster, 
assistant postmaster, or clerk employed in a post office, nor 
a member of the immediate family of a postmaster or 
assistant postmaster, and is to the best of my knowledge 
and belief, above the age of sixteen years, that he is com¬ 
petent and has the pecuniary ability to provide the service, 
and is of sufficient intelligence to properly handle and 
deposit the mail for boxes along the route. 

E. V. LITTLEFIELD, 
i Notary Public for Oregon. 

My commission expires March 22, 1929. 

29 Amendment to Existing Contract for Air Mail 

Service. 

This agreement entered into by and between Vern C. 
Gorst of North Bend, Oregon and the United States of 
America (acting in this behalf by the Postmaster General). 

Witnesseth, that whereas, the aforesaid Vern C. Gorst 
of North Bend, Oregon, entered into a contract with the 
United States of America under date of January 27, 1926, 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


27 


for the transportation of mail by aircraft on route No. 
C. A. M. 8 from Seattle, Wash., by Portland and Medford, 
Oregon, San Francisco, Fresno and Bakersfield, Calif., to 
Los Angeles, California, and return under an advertise¬ 
ment issued by the Postmaster General on July 15, 1925 
and, 

Whereas, under an Act of Congress approved June 3, 
1926, it is provided that existing contracts for thq trans¬ 
mission of mail bv aircraft mav be amended bv the written 

V V 

consent of the contractor and the Postmaster Genjeral so 
as to provide for a fixed rate per pound including! equip¬ 
ment, 

Now, therefore, it is hereby agreed and understood by 
the parties hereto for and in consideration of the mutual 
advantages accruing to each of said parties, that thej afore¬ 
said existing contract between the said parties is [hereby 
amended in accordance with the terms applicable jhereto 
as provided in the Act cited, the rate of pay being herein 
and hereby fixed at $2.8125 per pound including equipment, 
and at the rate of $3.09375 per pound including equipment 
for air mail carried in excess of 1,000 miles according to 
mileage as stated for the route but not more thaii 1,100 
miles. ! 

In witness whereof, the Postmaster General has executed 
this amendment to contract in behalf of the United States 
and caused the seal of the Post Office Department to be 
affixed thereto, and the said contractor has hereunto ^et his 
hand and seal. 

Signed, sealed and delivered in behalf of the United 
States this 2nd day of September, 1926. 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA, 
By HARRY S. NEW, 

Postmaster General. 

i 

Witness to signature of Postmaster General: 

ALICE MUMMENHOFF. 

Signed this 25th day of August, 1926. 

VERN C. GORST,! 

Contractor. 

Witnesses to signature of Contractor: | 

A. SCHALLER. 

BERNICE JOHNSON. 



28 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


30 


Approved as to Form: 


W. E. KELLER, 

Solicitor. 


Approved as to fact: 

CHASE C. GOVE, 

Acting Second Assistant Postmaster General. 

31 Amendment to Existing Contract for Air Mail 

Service. 


This agreement entered into by and between Pacific Air 
Transport, a corporation, organized and existing under 
the laws of the State of Oregon, and Vern C. Gorst of 
North Bend, Ore. 

Witnesseth, that whereas, the aforesaid Vern C. Gorst 
of North Bend, Oregon, entered into a contract with the 
United States of America under date of January 27, 1926, 
for the transportation of mail by aircraft on route No. 
C. A. M. 8, from Seattle, Wash., by Portland and Medford, 
Oregon, San Francisco, Fresno and Bakersfield, Calif, to 
Los Angeles, Calif., and return under an advertisement 
issued by the Postmaster General on July 15, 1925, and 

Whereas, under an Act of Congress approved June 5, 
1926, it is provided that existing contracts for the trans¬ 
mission of mail bv aircraft mav be amended bv the written 

•» v * 

consent of the contractor and the Postmaster General so as 
to provide for a fixed rate per pound including equipment. 

Now, therefore, it is hereby agreed and understood by 
the parties hereto for and in consideration of the mutual 
advantages accruing to each of said parties, that the afore¬ 
said existing contract between the said parties is hereby 
amended in accordance with the terms applicable thereto 
as provided in the Act cited, the rate of pay being herein 
and hereby fixed at $2.8125 per pound including equipment, 
and at the rate of $3.09375 per pound including equipment 
for air mail carried in excess of 1,000 miles according to 
mileage as stated for the route but not more than 1,100 
miles. 

Signed this 25th dav of August, 1926. 

VERN C. GORST. 

Witness to signature of Vern C. Gorst: 

A. SCHALLER, 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AX INDIVIDUAL. 


29 


Signed this 25th dav of August, 1926. 

PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, 
Bv VERN C. GORST, 

President. 

C. N. COMSTOCK, j 

Vice-President . 
FRANK A. FLYNN, j 

Treasurer . 

i 

Witnesses to signatures of officers of Pacific Air Trans¬ 
port : 

A. SCHALLER. 

BERNICE JOHNSON. 

32 Exhibit “C”. | 

Route Certificate Air Mail Service. 


Route: Seattle, Washington, by certain designated points 
to Los Angeles, California, and return. 

Carrier: Pacific Air Transport, of Oakland, California. 

Whereas, Section 2 of the Act of Congress, approved on 
the 29th day of April, 1930, entitled “An act to amend the 
air mail act of February 2, 1925, as amended by the acts 
of June 3,1926, and May 19,1928, further to encourage com¬ 
mercial aviation/* is as follows: 


“The Postmaster General may, if in his judgment the 
public interest will be promoted thereby, upon the sur¬ 
render of any air mail contract, issue in substitution there¬ 
for a route certificate for a period of not exceeding ten 
years from the date service started under such contract 

* i 

to any contractor or subcontractor who has satisfactorily 
operated an air mail route for a period of not less than 
two years, which certificate shall provide that the holder 
thereof shall have the right, so long as he complies with 
all rules, regulations, and orders that may be issued by 
the Postmaster General for meeting the needs of the Postal 
device and adjusting mail operations to the advances in 
the art of flying and passenger transportation, to c^rry 
air mail over the route set out in the certificate or any 
modification thereof at rates of compensation to be fixed 
from time to time, at least annually, by the Postmaster 
General, and he shall publish in his annual report his rea- 



30 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


sons for the continuance or the modification of anv rates; 

Provided, That such rates shall not exceed $1.25 per mile. 

Such certificate mav be cancelled at anv time for willful 

*> * 

neglect on the part of the holder to carry out any rules, 
regulations, or orders made for his guidance, notice of 
such intended cancellation to be given in writing by the 
Postmaster General and fortv-five davs allowed the holder 

mt •/ 

in which to show cause why the certificate should not be 
cancelled.” 

33 And whereas, Vern C. Gorst, an individual and 
citizen of the United States, on the twenty-seventh 
day of January, 1926, duly entered into a contract with 
the United States to transport the air mail by aircraft on 
a route from Seattle, Washington, by certain designated 
points, to Los Angeles, California, and return, and on the 
sixth day of March, 1926, the Pacific Air Transport, of 
Oakland, California, a corporation duly organized and ex¬ 
isting under the laws of the State of Oregon, hereinafter 
called the Carrier, became the subcontractor on this route, 
the said contract having been extended pursuant to the 
terms thereof for a period of not to exceed six months and 
presently being in full force and effect; 

And whereas, the said Carrier has satisfactorily oper¬ 
ated said air route for a period of not less than two years, 
to wit, from the fifteen- day of September, 1926, and is 
willing to surrender the said air mail contract and accept 
in substitution therefor a route certificate as provided in 
Section 2 of the Act of Congress approved the 29th day 
cf April, 1930; 

And whereas, in the judgment of the Postmaster Gen¬ 
eral, the public interest will be promoted by the issuance 
to said Carrier of a route certificate in substitution for 
said contract; 

Now therefore, pursuant to the authority in me vested 
by the provisions of said Act, I hereby certify that said 
Pacific Air Transport, of Oakland, California, shall have 
the right, so long as it complies with all rules, regulations, 
and orders that mav be issued by the Postmaster General 
for meeting the needs of the Postal service and adjusting 
mail operations to advances in the art of flying and pas¬ 
senger transportation, to carry mail over the route here¬ 
inafter set out or any modification thereof, at rates of 
compensation fixed herein, or to be fixed from time to time, 


i 

I 

JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 31 

7 

I 

at least annually, by the Postmaster General, provided that 
such rates shall not exceed $1.25 per mile for a 

34 period ending not more than ten years from tl^e date 
of beginning service under said contract, to wit, on 

the fifth day of April, 1926; subject to the following con¬ 
ditions : 

i 

i 

Terms and Conditions. 'j 

l 

1. The issuance of this certificate by the Postmaster Gen¬ 
eral and its acceptance by the Carrier as hereinafter pro¬ 
vided shall be deemed a full mutual release of the United 
States and the said Carrier from all the terms, conditions, 
and obligations of the air mail contract hereinbefore re¬ 
ferred to, dated the twenty-seventh day of January^ 1926, 
from the date of the acceptance of this certificate, except 
compensation due for services performed prior to th^ date 
hereof, and upon the acceptance thereof the said Carrier 
shall surrender the said contract to the United States. 

2. The route over which the Carrier shall have the right 
to carry air mail shall be from Seattle, Washington, by 
certain designated points, to Los Angeles, California, and 
return, including any extension or other modification of 
said route that may be be made as hereinafter provided. 

3. Upon 60 days’ notice to the Carrier, the Postmaster 
General from time to time may modify said route joy an 
extension or extensions thereof, including lateral exten¬ 
sions or consolidations, and prescribe the schedule there¬ 
for including the stops thereon, and determine the mileage 
upon which the compensation of the Carrier is to be leased. 

4. For the purposes of this certificate the distance be¬ 
tween the terminal points of the route hereinbeford pre¬ 
scribed shall be deemed to be 1,130 miles. 

5. The aircraft employed by the Carrier in the service 
authorized herebv shall be manufactured in the United 
States. They shall be of modern design, airworthy; and 
suitable for the service prescribed; the design and capacity 
of such aircraft, and the location, size and construction of 
the mail compartments therein, shall be subject to thd ap¬ 
proval of the Postmaster General. 

35 The following service may be prescribed by the 
Postmaster General: 

A.—Night Mail Service. 



32 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


B. —Night Mail & Passenger Service, 

C. —Dav Mail Service, 

D. —Day Mail & Passenger Service. 

6. Until and including the thirty-first day of December, 
1930, or until otherwise directed by the Postmaster Gen¬ 
eral, the Carrier shall provide the following service over 
said routes: 

1. One flight by a plane having not less than 25 cubic feet 
of space for 400 pounds of air mail, and accom-odations for 
not less than 2 passengers, departing from Portland, Ore¬ 
gon, at 7:15 a. m., daily, to be classified as Class D service, 
and payment made therefor at the rate of seventy-seven 
($.77) centsi per mile, until otherwise ordered. 

2. One flight by a plane having not less than 25 cubic feet 
of space for 400 pounds of air mail, and accom-odations 
for not less than 2 passengers, departing from Los Angeles, 
at 11:43 p. m., daily, to be classified as Class B service, and 
payment made therefor at the rate of ninety-two cents 
($.92) per mile for night flying and seventy-seven cents 
($.77) per mile for day flying, until otherwise ordered. 

7. Upon 60 days’ notice to the Carrier, the Postmaster 
General may increase, diminish, or modify the service 
above prescribed, and make such adjustments in the com¬ 
pensation of the Carrier as he may deem proper. 

8. The Carrier shall transport the mails of the United 
States offered for carriage over the route hereinbefore set 
out with due celerity, in a safe and secure manner, free 
from wet or other injury, receiving and delivering the 
same at fields and points therein designated on schedules 
prescribed by the Postmaster General. 

9. Payments shall be made to the Carrier monthly upon 
evidence that the service authorized herebv has been well 
and faithfully performed in accordance with the provisions 
hereof. 

10. The Carrier shall keep and maintain an accurate sys¬ 
tem of accounting in accordance with regulations pre¬ 
scribed by the Postmaster General. These accounts 

36 shall include a record of all obligations, investments, 
expenditures, receipts and earnings from any source 
whatsoever, and shall be subject at all reasonable times 
to inspection and audit by the Post Office Department. The 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


33 


Carrier shall furnish to the Postmaster General such in¬ 
formation regarding its accounts and operations ak he may 
from time to time require. 

11. The Carrier shall not directly, or indirectly, promote 
the use of the air mail over the route hereinbefore set out, 
or any other air mail route except in accordance w|th regu¬ 
lations prescribed by the Postmaster General. 

12. This certificate is issued upon the express conditions 
that the said. Carrier will hold itself subject to all the con¬ 
ditions imposed by the several Acts of Congress relating 
to the Air Mail Service and to all the provisions of the law 
relating to Post Office and the Postal Service generally 
insofar as they are applicable to the Air Mail Service; that 
no Member of or Delegate to Congress shall be admitted to 
any share or part of the benefits accruing to it hefeunder; 
and that it has not employed a third person to solicit or 
obtain the same, or to cause or procure the same to be ob¬ 
tained upon compensation in any way contingent, in whole 
or in part, upon such procurement; and that it has not paid, 
or promised or agreed to pay, to any third person; in con¬ 
sideration of such procurement, or in compensation for 
service in connection therewith, any brokerage, Commis¬ 
sion, or percentage, upon the amount receivable by jit there¬ 
under, and that it has not, in estimating the price $t which 
it undertakes hereunder to carry the mail, included any 
sum by reason of any such brokerage, commission, or per¬ 
centage, and that all money payable to it hereundeif is free 
from obligation to any person for services rendered, or 
supposed to have been rendered, in the procurement of 
this certificate. And it is understood that a breach of this 

condition shall constitute adequate cause for the can- 
37 cellation of this certificate by the Postmaster Gen¬ 
eral, and that the United States may retaih to its 
own use from any sums due or to become due thereunder 
an amount equal to any brokerage, commission, or percent¬ 
age so paid or agreed to be paid. 

13. The said Carrier shall be responsible for the persons 
to whom it commits the custody and transportation of the 
mails, and the observance of the law by such perscjns and 
the faithful performance of the duties required by it of 
them; and shall not commit the custody or transportation 
of the mails to any person under sixteen years of age, nor 

3—6289a 



34 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


to any person under a sentence of imprisonment at hard 
labor imposed by a court having criminal jurisdiction, nor 
to any person not authorized by law to be concerned in con¬ 
tracts for carrying the mail. 

14. The said Carrier shall be answerable in damage to 
the United States for any breach by it, or by its officers or 
agents, of the terms and conditions set out herein; and for 
such a breach, or for inferior service, or for loss of or 
damage to the mail through its fault or that of its officers or 
agents, the Postmaster General may make such deductions 
from the pay of the said Carrier as he may deem proper. 

15. This certificate mav be cancelled by the Postmaster 
General at any time for willful neglect on the part of the 
holder to carry out any rules, regulations, or orders made 
for its guidance, notice of such intended cancellation to be 
given in writing by the Postmaster General and forty-five 

davs allowed the holder in which to show cause whv the 

» %> 

certificate should not be cancelled. 

16. Bv agreement of the Postmaster General and the 
Carrier, the life of this certificate may be curtailed, said 
certificate may be cancelled, or any other modification may 
be made herein not inconsistent with law. 

17. The Postmaster General shall have the right at anv 
time during the period of service authorized hereby 

38 to require the carrier to furnish surety other than 
that for which provision is hereafter made, and in 
his discretion to increase or reduce the amount of the bond 
that has been furnished by the Carrier. 

18. The delivery to and acceptance and approval by the 
Postmaster General of a bond in the sum of $12,000.00 con¬ 
ditioned upon the faithful and efficient performance in 
accordance with the terms and conditions hereinbefore set 
out, of the service intended to be authorized bv this certifi- 
cate, duly executed by a surety acceptable to the Post¬ 
master General; and the acceptance of this certificate upon 
the said terms and conditions, evidenced bv the counter- 
signature of the said Carrier, shall be conditions precedent 
to the vesting of any right in the said Carrier by virtue 
thereof. 

Witness my hand and seal this twenty-seventh day of 
May, 1930. 

! WALTER F. BROWN, 

i Postmaster General. 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AST INDIVIDUAL. 


35 


Witness to signature of the Postmaster Generali: 

W. IRVING GLOVER. | 

Accepted upon the terms and conditions abovfe set out 
this 27th dav of May, 1930. 

PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, 

P. G. JOHNSON, | 

President, j 

i 

39 Amendment. 

Under authority of the Act of April 29, 1930, 39 U. S. C. 
465c. Supp. V., and in accordance with the terms contained 
in tlie route certificate issued under date of May 27, 1930, 
to Pacific Air Transport, of Oakland, California, hpon sur¬ 
render by it of the contract with the United States !to trans¬ 
port air mail by aircraft on a route from Seattle, Washing¬ 
ton, by certain designated points, to Los Angeles, Califor¬ 
nia, and return—Paragraph 16 of the air mail rbute cer¬ 
tificate is hereby amended so as to read as follower 

4 ‘16. By agreement of the Postmaster General and the 
Carrier the life of this certificate may be curtailed, said 
certificate may be cancelled, or any other modification 
therein be made, including extensions in the life thereof, 
not inconsistent with law.” 

Witness my hand and seal this 24th day of February 1933. 

WALTER F. BROWN,' 

Postmaster General. 

T 

Witness to the signature of the Postmaster General: 
ALICE E. MUMMENHOFF. 

Accepted upon the terms and conditions abovej set out 
this 6th dav of March, 1933. 

PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, 
By P. G. JOHNSON, ! 

President. 

40 Exhibit “D.” 

United Air Lines, Inc. 

Management Contract Between United Air Lines, Inc. and 
Boeing Air Transport, Inc., National Air Transport, 
Inc., Pacific Air Transport, Varner Air Lines, Jnc. 

Agreement, this 1st day of July, 1931, between United 
Air Lines, Inc., a corporation of the State of Delaware 



36 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


(hereinafter referred to as “Management Corporation”), 
party of the first part, and Boeing Air Transport, Inc., 
National Air Transport, Inc., Pacific Air Transport and 
Varney Air Lines, Inc., and such other corporations as 
may, from time to time, become parties to this Agreement 
in the manner hereinafter provided (hereinafter referred 
to as “Operating Companies”), parties of the second part. 

Whereas, the Operating Companies are each controlled 
through stock ownership by the United Aircraft & Trans¬ 
port Corporation, a corporation of the State of Delaware, 
and are engaged in operating air transport lines, none of 
which competes with any of the others and which together 
constitute a single connected system, the various portions 
of which, however, have heretofore been operated inde¬ 
pendently of each other; and 

Whereas, the Operating Companies deem it desirable 
that their respective policies of management, operation 
and accounting be unified with a view to obtaining greater 
efficiency in operations; and 

Whereas, the Operating Companies also desire to es¬ 
tablish a common agency for the purchase of equipment 
and supplies and the placing of insurance and advertising, 
with a view to securing the economies which may be ex¬ 
pected to be realized therefrom; 

Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises and of 
the mutual promises herein contained, the parties hereto 
hereby agree, as follows: 

I. The Management Corporation shall manage the oper¬ 
ations of the respective Operating Companies, securing 
for each of them such local managers, superintendents, 
engineers, auditors and other employees as may, in the 
judgment of the Management Corporation, be necessary or 
desirable. The persons so secured by the Management 
Corporation shall be in the employ of, and be paid by, the 
respective Operating Companies. 

II. The Management Corporation shall keep itself fa¬ 
miliar with the business of the respective Operating Com¬ 
panies and the local conditions applying thereto, and shall 
advise and direct the local managers and department and 
division heads of the respective Operating Companies. 

III. The Management Corporation shall, from 
41 time to time, determine upon and enforce unified 
policies of management, operation and accounting 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. - 37 

I 

for the several Operating Companies, including, among 
other things, adjustment of flying schedules, rate^ of fare, 
rules and regulations applying to the transportation of 
passengers, mail and express, sale of tickets, and delations 
and agreements with other transport companies. 

IV. The Management Corporation shall purchase for 
the account of the respective Operating Companips, from 
time to time, so far as practicable, any and all equipment, 
apparatus, tools and supplies which may be required for 
the operations thereof. 

V. The Management Corporation shall manage the traffic 
departments of the respective Operating Companies, and, 
as their agent and for their account, shall employ all su¬ 
perintendents, clerks and other employees necessary for 
such traffic departments, shall pay their salaries and wages 
and any and all other expenses of the respectivp traffic 
and ticket offices, except those which the several Operating 
Companies may elect to pay directly, and shall collect and 
account for any and all receipts of the several traffic de¬ 
partments from the sale of tickets or other sources. 

VI. The Management Corporation shall supervise the 
auditing and accounting of the respective Operating Com¬ 
panies and the preparation of their financial, tax and simi¬ 
lar reports. 

VII. The Management Corporation shall caAse the 
properties and operations of the respective Operating 
Companies to be at all times covered by such insurance 
as may, in the judgment of the Management Corppration, 
be necessary for their reasonable protection, all of which 
insurance shall be placed by the Management Corporation 
for the account of the respective Operating Companies. 

VIII. The Management Corporation shall, from [time to 
time, determine upon the advertising and publicity policies 
for the respective Operating Companies and shall place 
any and all advertising contracts either for its own account 
or for the account of the respective Operating Companies, 
as occasion may warrant. 

IX. The Management Corporation shall exercise execu¬ 
tive supervision over franchise, tax and rate matters and 
negotiations and dealings with the United States (govern¬ 
ment and the several departments thereof, and over any 
and all controversies or litigations in or to which the re¬ 
spective Operating Companies shall be parties or be in- 



38 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


terested; provided, that the services to be rendered by the 
Management Corporation hereunder shall not include legal 
services of anv character. 

X. Salaries of officers and employees of the Management 
Corporation shall be paid by it; and, in case any such 
officer or employee shall also be an officer or employee 
of an Operating Company, arrangements shall be made 
that such officer or employee shall serve without compen¬ 
sation from such Operating Company, unless the Oper¬ 
ating Company shall otherwise agree. 

XI. The Management Corporation shall keep available 
to the respective Operating Companies, at its principal 

office, the experience, advice and assistance of the 
42 members of its organization and the facilities of its 

various; departments for use in any matter pertain¬ 
ing to the operations of the several Operating Companies. 

XII. Nothing contained in this Agreement is intended 
or shall be construed to be in derogation of or in limitation 
upon the powers and duties of the directors or officers of 
the several Operating Companies. In acting hereunder, 
the Management Corporation shall, at all times, be subject 
to the direction and order of the Boards of Directors of the 
respective Operating Companies. 

XIII. As full compensation for services to be rendered 
by the Management Corporation hereunder, and in reim¬ 
bursement of its general expenses, each Operating Com¬ 
pany shall pay to the Management Corporation, within 
thirty days after the close of each calendar month, a sum 
in cash equal to its ratable share in the expenses of the 
Management Corporation for such month, other than ex¬ 
penses incurred for account of one or more of the Operat¬ 
ing Companies, individually, which share shall be deter¬ 
mined, from time to time, by the proportion which the 
volume of operations of the particular Operating Company 
for such month bears to the total volume of operations of 
all the Operating Companies for the same month. For the 
purposes of this Article XIII, such proportion shall be de¬ 
termined, so far as practicable, by giving due weight to 
the number of miles flown by the respective Operating 
Companies and the gross operating revenues thereof, to¬ 
gether with such other factors (if any) as, from time to 
time, may appear to be equitable. The proportions thus 
determined upon, from time to time, shall be applied there- 




JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


39 


after from month to month, subject to adjustment at any 
time, at the request of any Operating Company, so !as to re¬ 
flect changing operating conditions. In case the Operating 
Companies shall at any time be unable to agreb among 
themselves upon their respective shares in the gefleral ex¬ 
penses of the Management Corporation, the decision of the 
Management Corporation with respect thereto phall be 
decisive. j 

Applying the foregoing formula to present operations, 
the parties agree that, until adjusted as herein provided, 
the general expenses of the Management Corporation shall 
be borne by the several Operating Companies in the follow¬ 
ing proportions, respectively: ! 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc.—Three-eighths thereof, 
National Air Transport, Inc.—Three-eighth- thereof, 
Pacific Air Transport—One-eighth thereof, 

Varney Air Lines, Inc.—One-eighth thereof. 


Expenses incurred by the Management Corporation for 
account of one or more of the Operating Companibs, indi¬ 
vidually, shall be reimbursed to the Management Corpora¬ 
tion by the respective Operating Companies concerned 
therein within thirty days after the close of the month in 
which such expenses were incurred. 

XIV. Any corporation operating an air transport line, 
and controlled through stock ownership by the United Air¬ 
craft & Transport Corporation, may at any time become 
a party to this Agreement by signing the original hereof 
held by the Management Corporation. If at any tjime the 
said United Aircraft & Transport Corporation shajll cease 

to be the owner of at least a majority of thb voting 
43 stock of any Operating Company, such Operating 
Company shall immediately cease to be a j^arty to 
this Agreement; provided, that it shall remain liable to 
pay to the Management Corporation any and all suifns then 
payable by such Operating Company hereunder. 

XV. Any Operating Company may withdraw frpm this 
Agreement at the close of any calendar year by giving to 
the Management Corporation and to the other Operating 
Companies six months prior notice in writing of its inten¬ 
tion so to do. 

XVI. This Agreement shall be binding upon, ahd shall 
inure to the benefit of, the respective parties heretb, their 
successors and assigns. 



40 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


XVII. Nothing contained in this Agreement is intended 
to constitute, or shall be construed as constituting, the re¬ 
spective Operating Companies partners with one another, 
or as guarantors or sureties of any of the others, the obli¬ 
gations of each of the Operating Companies being several 
and not joint. 

XVIII. This Agreement shall become effective as of July 
1, 1931, upon the approval thereof by the Post-Master Gen¬ 
eral of the United States of America. 

In witness whereof, the parties hereto have caused this 
instrument to be executed by their respective Presidents 
and/or Vice-Presidents, as of the day and year first above 
written, except as to such Operating Companies as may 
become parties hereto subsequently to the said date, in 
which case this Agreement shall be deemed to have been 
entered into by them on the respective dates upon which 
thev shall have signed the same. 

UNITED AIR LINES, INC., 

By (Signed by) FREDERICK W. JACKSON, 

President. 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, 
INC 

By (Signed by) P. G. JOHNSON, 

President. 

NATIONAL AIR TRANS¬ 
PORT, INC., 

By (Signed by) P. G. JOHNSON, 

President. 

PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, 

By (Signed by) P. G. JOHNSON, 

President. 

VARNEY AIR LINES, INC., 

By (Signed by) P. G. JOHNSON, 

i President. 


44 Exhibit “E” 

i “New York City, 

February 16, 1934. 

Hon. James A. Farley, 

Postmaster General of the United States, 
Washington, D. C. 

Dear Sir: 

The newspapers have published a copy of your letter, 
dated February 14,1934, addressed to Hon. Hugo L. Black, 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


41 


Chairman of the Special Senate Committee on Oc4an and 
Air Mail Contracts. 

Your letter contains the direct charge that United Air 
Lines (by which name the integrated air line systjem op¬ 
erated by the undersigned is generally known) werelparties 
to a conspiracy which ‘resulted in a division of all dir mail 
contracts of the United States and the practical elimina¬ 
tion of competitive bidding,’ and that 'all the present 
domestic air mail carriers secured contracts based pn con¬ 
spiracy or collusion.’ United Air Lines positively deny 
the truth of these charges as to them and assert th^t none 
of the contracts of United Air Lines was so secured. The 
basic contracts under which they are today operating were 
in each case the result of competitive bidding, following 
public advertisement, and were awarded or sublet tp them 
long prior to the conference in May, 1930, at whiqh time 
you allege the conspiracy was entered into. Here tabulated 
are the facts surrounding the initial letting of contracts to 
the several companies constituting the United Air Lines 
Svstem: 

1 | 

A. National Air Transport, Inc. 

Route AM-3—Chicago, Illinois, to Dallas, Texas, ^nd re¬ 
turn. 

Bids for this route were requested by public advertise¬ 
ment, dated July 15, 1925. Bids were opened September 
15, 1925. The contract was awarded under date of Qctober 
7, 1925, to National Air Transport, Inc., as the lowest re¬ 
sponsible bidder, with a bid of 80% of the postage relvenue. 
The only other bidder was General Airways System, Inc. 

Performance under the contract commenced M^y 12, 
1926, and has continued to date. 

i 

B. Varnev Air Lines, Inc. 

Route AM-5—Salt Lake City, U., to Seattle, Wash., and 
return. 

Bids for the portion of the route between Elko,| Nev., 
via Boise, Ida., and Pasco, Wash., were requested by public 
advertisement dated July 15, 1925. Bids were opened 
September 15, 1925. The contract was awarded under date 
of October 7, 1925, to Walter T. Varney, of San Francisco, 
Calif., with a bid of 80% of the postage revenue. Walter 



42 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


T Varnev was the onlv bidder. The said contract was dulv 
sublet to Varney Air Lines, Inc. 

45 Performance under the contract commenced April 

6, 1926. 

The northern portion of this route (originally known as 
Route AM-32) between Pasco, Wash., and Spokane, Wash., 
Portland, Ore., and Seattle, Wash., was publicly advertised 
for bidding on June 15, 1929. Bids were opened August 
15, 1929. The contract was awarded under date of August 
21, 1929, to Varney Air Lines, Inc., as the lowest responsi¬ 
ble bidder, with a bid of 9c per pound. The other bidders 
were Robert E. Smith, National Parks Airways, Inc., and 
Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

Performance under the contract commenced immediately. 

•» 

On July 1, 1930, by certificate of the Postmaster General, 
Route AM-32 was duly consolidated with Route AM-5, and, 
upon the order of the present Postmaster General, dated 
October 9, 1933, the air mail route certificate covering the 
consolidated route was sublet to Boeing Air Transport, 
Inc., which now operates the same. 

C. Pacific Air Transport. 

Route AM-8—Seattle, Wash., to Los Angeles, Calif., and 
return. 

Bids for this route were requested by public advertise¬ 
ment dated July 15, 1925. Bids were opened September 
15, 1925. The contract was awarded under date of Decem¬ 
ber 31, 1925, to Vern C. Gorst, of North Bend, Ore., as the 
lowest responsible bidder, with a bid of 75% of the postage 
revenue. The other bidders were Wiley F. Crist, of San 
Francisco, Calif., and Western Air Express, Inc. The said 
contract was duly sublet to Pacific Air Transport. 

Performance under the contract commenced September 
15, 1926, and has continued to date. 

D. National Air Transport, Inc. 

Route AM-17—Newark, N. J., to Chicago, Ill., and re¬ 
turn. 

Bids for this route were requested by public advertise¬ 
ment dated November 15, 1926. Bids were opened Janu¬ 
ary 15, 1927, all bids being rejected. The route was pub¬ 
licly readvertised for bidding on March 8, 1927, and bids 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AFT INDIVIDUAL. 


43 


submitted pursuant thereto were opened March 2f£, 1927. 
The contract was awarded under date of April 2, JL927, to 
National Air Transport, Inc., as the lowest responsible 
bidder, with a bid of $1.24 per pound. The other bidders 
were A. F. Stewart, Colonial Air Transport, ancj North 
American Airways. 

Performance under the contract commenced September 
1, 1927, and has continued to date. 


2. Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

Route AM-18—Chicago, Ill., to San Francisco, Calif., and 
return. 

46 Bids for this route were requested by public ad¬ 
vertisement dated November 15, 1926. Bids were 
opened January 15, 1927. The contract was awarded under 
date of January 29, 1927, to Boeing Airplane Company and 
Edward Hubbard, as the lowest responsible bidders, with 
a bid of $1.50 per pound for the first 1,000 miles and 15^ 
per pound for each additional 100 miles. The other bid¬ 
ders were Stout Air Services, Inc., Western Air Express, 
Inc., and Columbia Airliners. The said contract was duly 
sublet to Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 

Performance under the contract commenced July 1, 1927, 
and has continued to date. 

Each of the above described contracts was for a term of 

four vears from the date of award. At various dates be- 
%> 

tween Mav and November, 1930, each of the said contracts 
was duly surrendered in accordance with the provisions of 
the ‘McNarv-Watres Act’ in exchange for route certificates, 
duly issued by the Post Office Department. Said route cer¬ 
tificates are in form prescribed by the Post Office Depart¬ 
ment and confer upon the holders the right to carry the 
mails over the respective routes for a period of approxi¬ 
mately ten years from the date of commencement of opera¬ 
tions under the original contracts. 

From the foregoing it is clear that all the contracts of 
the constituent companies of the United Air Lines were 
awarded as a result of public competitive bidding an^l that, 
in each case, award was made to the lowest responsible 
bidder. j 

No new route or extension of an existing routfe was 
granted to any of the United Air Lines subsequent to the 


44 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


conference above referred to, with the exception of the 
branch line between Omaha, Neb., and Watertown, S. D., 
and the extension between Los Angeles and San Diego. 
The Watertown extension was neither solicited nor desired 
by United Air Lines, but was put into operation by Boeing 
Air Transport, Inc., under instructions of the Post Office 
Department. The San Diego extension was a logical south¬ 
erly extension of the previously existing Pacific Coast route 
of Pacific Air Transport (Route AM-8) and was entirely 
within the spirit and the letter of the McXary Watres Act. 
Neither of these extensions was in any way discussed at 
the conference, and none of the undersigned at any time 
entered into any agreement or understanding, express or 
implied, with any other mail operator with respect to the 
granting thereof. 

None of the representatives of United Air Lines pro¬ 
posed to enter, or entered, into any agreement or under¬ 
standing dealing with the granting of extensions to their 
own or other lines, or to the division of territory between 
lines. At the time of the conference Varney Air Lines 
was in no way affiliated with the United Air Lines system, 
although your letter carries the contrary implication, and 
Thompson Aeronautical Corporation, which your letter also 
ascribes to the United Air Lines system, was not then and 
never has been in anv wav affiliated with United. 

At the time of the conference United Air Lines had al¬ 
ready, through open competitive bidding, as above 
47 set forth, established an integrated transcontinental 
system, embracing lines between New York, Chicago 
and San Francisco, Chicago and Dallas, Tex., and Seattle 
and Los Angeles, respectively. United Air Lines were 
financially committed and contractually obligated to the 
improvement of their system, and were not interested and, 
in fact, could not legally participate in any other trans¬ 
continental system. Representatives of United Air Lines 
were present at the conference only at the request of the 
Postmaster General, with whose orders and regulations 
they were under obligations to comply. 

In your letter to Senator Black, you state that the con¬ 
tract for Route AM-32 (Pasco-Spokane, Portland-Seattle) 
‘was awarded to Varney Air Lines, Inc., owned by United 
Aircraft on August 2i f 1929, at a rate of nine cents per 
pound,’ and that ‘this route was consolidated with another 



I 


JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 45 

route of United Air Lines July 1, 1930, at a rate of $2.43 
per pound.’ The fact is that United Aircraft did hot own 
Varney Air Lines in August, 1929. It was not until June 
28, 1930, almost a year thereafter, that United Aircraft 
acquired any portion of the stock thereof; and the re¬ 
organization of the management of Varney Air Lines as 
a X7nited Aircraft subsidiary was not effected until Au¬ 
gust 26, 1930. The facts with respect to the contracts of 
Varney Air Lines, Inc., have been set forth above. 

In the first paragraph on page two of your letter, as 
released to the press, you say: 

‘Five of these contracts were executed November 7^ 1925, 
and would have expired by operation of law Novenlber 7, 
1929, except for an order issued on November 6, 19^9, by 
Second Assistant Postmaster General W. Irving (plover 
extending these contracts for a period of six months so 
as to make them terminate May 7, 1930. I am satisfied that 
the extension of these contracts for said period d>f six 
months was illegal. There was no attempt whatever to re¬ 
advertise said routes or re-award them, or emergency re¬ 
quiring them to be let without competitive bidding, and 
the course pursued was a part of the conspiracy herein¬ 
after mentioned. Extensions of these contracts for a 
period of ten years, under the so-called “Certificate” 
method, were arbitrarily made by Postmaster General 
Brown on Mav 3, 1930.’ 

Contracts covering two of the routes now being operated 
by United Air Lines were included in the orders which 
you assert were illegally issued by the Second Assistant 
Postmaster General. For more than twelve months prior 
to November 6, 1929, the contract of Varney Air Lines, 
Inc., covering Route AM-5, and of National Air Transport, 
Inc., covering Route AM-3, were eligible for conversion 
into route certificates under the provisions of the 1528 
amendment of the so-called ‘Kelley Act,’ which, arfiong 
other things, provided for the surrender of contracts, 
under which satisfactory service had been performed for 
two years, for route certificates which would permit con¬ 
tinuing operations for a period of ten years from the dates 
on which service was inaugurated under the original 
contracts. Although negotiations looking toward the sur¬ 
render of such contracts had been carried on for a eon- 

i 

I 

i 


46 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


siderable 'period prior to November 6, 1929, the Post¬ 
master General had not, up to that date, accepted such 
surrender. The orders of the Second Assistant 
48 Postmaster General, on November 6, 1929, were, as 
the undersigned are advised, in strict conformity 
with the law covering the situation. Issuance of the orders 
was not solicited bv either Varnev Air Lines, Inc., or Na- 
tional Air Transport, Inc., and route certificates covering 
the same routes were issued to the same carriers at or 
before the expiration of the extended period. At the time 
of the extension neither of the companies affected was in 
anv wav affiliated with United Aircraft. 

Your letter to Senator Black refers to alleged excessive 
payments paid by the Post Office Department to air mail 
contractors, and implies that such excessive payments have 
been received bv all of them. It can readilv be shown from 

•r V 

the Post Office Department’s records that, so far as United 
Air Lines;are concerned, the cost of carrying the mail has 
steadily decreased. In May, 1930, United Air Lines re¬ 
ceived payment at the average rate of $1.18 a mile as com¬ 
pared with an average of 53c 4 a mile in May, 1933. Since 
May, 1933, the average rate has been further reduced to 
approximately 36c 4 a mile for the entire United Air Lines 
system. The mail revenue of United Air Lines per pound 
mile is now approximately the same as the stamp revenue 
per pound mile received by the Government from the 
public; that is, about 1.6 mills. Owing to the difficulty with 
which the Post Office Department is confronted in calcu¬ 
lating thei exact revenue received by it from air mail, it 
appears to be impossible to arrive at an exact computation 
thereof, but recent official statements indicate that the 
stamp revenue for air mail currently amounts to between 
1.5 mills and 2 mills per pound mile for the country as a 
whole. 

The undersigned call your attention to the evident mis¬ 
information upon which your letter is based, in the confi¬ 
dent expectation that you will re-examine the facts and 
give the undersigned an opportunity to be heard, to the 
end that grave injustice shall not be suffered by the un¬ 
dersigned' who have in the best of good faith entered into 
contract obligations with the United States Government, 
have fully and faithfully complied with all laws and regula¬ 
tions, and have in cooperation with the Post Office Depart- 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


47 


ment, created one of the greatest Air Transport $ystems 
in the world. 

i 

Yours very truly, 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
NATIONAL AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT, 

VARNEY AIR LINES, INC., | 
UNITED AIR LINES, INC., 

By P. G. JOHNSON, j 

President. 7 7 I 

! 

49 Motion to Dismiss. 

Filed May 8, 1934. i 


#••••* 4 


Comes now the defendant in the above entitled cause, and 
moves to dismiss the bill of complaint filed herein for the 
following reasons: I 

1. That the bill of complaint does not state a good cause 
of action. 

2. That the suit is virtually one against the United 
States. 

3. That the plaintiff has a plain, adequate and cojnplete 
remedy at law, namely, a suit in the Court of Clairhs, for 
the alleged breach of contract. 

4. That this suit seeks to control the official acts of the 
Postmaster General of the United States, which acjts are 
within the scope of his authority and part of his official 


duties, and involve the exercise of judgment and discretion 
in respect to matters lawfully submitted to his care. 


5. And for other reasons apparent of record. 


LESLIE C. GARNETT, 

United States Attorney,\ 
DAVID A. PINE, 

Assistant United States Attorney, \ 
JOHN W. FIHELLY, 

Assistant United States Attorney, 

Attorneys for Defendant. 

CARL L. RISTINE, 

Special Assistant to the Attorney General, 

Of Counsel. j 

HARRY L. JONES, 

Attorney, Department of Justice, 

Of Counsel. 



48 


i 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


50 Decree Granting Motion to Dismiss, &c. 

Filed June 6, 1934. 

• •••••* 


This cause came on to be heard at this term upon the 
motion of defendant to dismiss the bill of complaint filed 
herein; and thereupon, upon consideration thereof, it is, 
this 6th day of June, 1934, 

Adjudged, ordered and decreed that the motion to dis¬ 
miss said bill of complaint be and the same is hereby 
granted, and said bill of complaint be and the same is 
hereby dismissed. 

i DANIEL W. O’DONOGHUE, 

Justice. 

No objection as to form: 

I WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, 

Attorney for Plaintiff. 

Notation of Appeal. 

Filed June 19, 1934. 

• •••••* 


Comes now the plaintiff in the above entitled cause and 
notes an appeal to the Court of Appeals of the District of 
Columbia, from that certain order and decree made and 
entered by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia 
on the 6th dav of June, 1934. 

WM. J. DONOVAN, 

i Attorney for Plaintiff-Appellant. 

51 Citation. 

Issued June 19, 1934. 

• •••••• 

The President of the United States, to James A. Farlev, 
an individual, Greeting: 

You are hereby cited and admonished to be and appear 
at the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, upon 
docketing the cause therein, under and as directed by the 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


49 


rules of said court, pursuant to an appeal from! the Su¬ 
preme Court of the District of Columbia, on the lO" day of 
June, 1934, wherein Pacific Air Transport, is appellant, 
and you are appellee, to show cause, if any there be, why 
the decree rendered against the said appellant, should not 
be corrected, and why speedy justice should not b6 done to 
the parties in that behalf. 

Witness the Honorable Alfred A. Wheat, Chief Justice 
of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, this 19" 
day of June, in the year of Our Lord, one thousand nine 
hundred and thirtv-four. 

[seal.] ' FRANK E. CUNNINGHAll, 

\Clerk, 

By HARRY M. HULL, 

Assistant Clerk. 

Service of appeal citation in Eq. 57042 acknowledged & 
accepted June 19, 1934. 

LESLIE C. GARNET 

U. S. Attorney. 

Order Setting Appeal Bond. 

Filed June 20, 1934. 

******* 

It appearing to the court that an appeal was this day 
noted herein from the decree of June 6, 1934, it is this 20th 
dav of June 

52 Ordered that the bond on appeal be and the same 
hereby is fixed in the sum of $100.00, or in lieu 
thereof, $50.00 in cash. 

JENNINGS BAILEY, 
Memorandum. 

June 20,1934.—$50 deposit in lieu of bond on appeal. 

Assignment of Errors. 

Filed June 19, 1934. | 

******* 

Comes now the plaintiff in the above entitled cause and 
files the following assignment of errors upon which it will 

4—6289 a 






50 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


rely in prosecuting its appeal in the above entitled cause 
from the order and decree made by this Honorable Court 
on the 6th dav of June, 1934: 

The Court erred: 

1. In dismissing the bill of complaint. 

2. In failing to hold that the Court had jurisdiction of 
the suit. 

3. In holding that the suit is essentially a suit against 
the United States. 

4. In holding that the suit involves the handling of the 
mails and therefore involves the property of the United 
States. 

5. In failing to hold that the acts of defendant Farley 
complained of were unauthorized by law and therefore void. 

6. In failing to hold that defendant Farley is in- 

53 dividually responsible for his unauthorized acts and 
that he is subject to injunction therefor. 

7. In failing to hold that no interest of the United States 
would be affected by the granting of the relief sought. 

8. In holding that the plaintiff has an adequate remedy 
at law bv suit in the Court of Claims. 

9. In holding that the acts complained of do not violate 
the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United 
States or the rights thereby preserved to the plaintiff. 

10. In failing to hold that. Section 3950 of the Revised 
Statutes, insofar as it seeks to impose pains and penalties 
is unconstitutional as applied to this plaintiff upon the 
facts set forth in the complaint, because constituting a bill 
of attainder. 

11. In holding that the Court could not properly enjoin 
the imposition of any such penalty prior to the actual im¬ 
position thereof. 

12. In failing to hold that the facts alleged in the com¬ 
plaint call for equitable relief. 

j WM. J. DONOVAN, 

Attorney for Plaintiff-Appellant. 

54 Docket Entries. 

• • • • • • • 

Date. Proceedings. 

1934 Apr. 18 Deposit toward costs by Donovan. 

“ “ “ Bill, appearance, order to file, filed. 



JAMES A. FARLEY, AN INDIVIDUAL. 


51 


Date. Proceedings. 

1934 Apr. 18 Subpoena to answer and copy issued. Re¬ 
turned served 4-18-34. 

“ May 8 Mo. of deft, to dismiss bill, Notice, P. & A.— 

App. U. S. Atty, Ristine & Jones.! Filed. 

“ “ 19 Plff’s P. & A. in opposition to motion to 

dismiss & acknowledgment of service. 

44 44 44 Stipulation. I 

June 6 Order granting Motion to dismiss & dismiss¬ 
ing Bill. 

44 44 44 Notation of pltf. of appeal. Filed. 

44 44 44 Citation of appeal issued. Service accepted 

6/19/34. | 

44 44 4 4 Assignment of Errors. Filed. 

44 44 20 Order setting appeal bond at $100 or $50 

cash. 

44 4 4 44 Deposit by Donovan, Bond & Leisure for 

plff. in lieu of bond on appeal. 

4 4 4 4 4 4 Deposit by Donovan. 

44 July 9 Designation of Record. Filed. 

Designation of Record . 

Filed July 9, 1934. | 


Plaintiff, Pacific Air Transport, having perfected an 
appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for tjie Dis¬ 
trict of Columbia in the above-entitled cause, respectfully 
requests the Clerk of this Court to prepare and ma^e part 
of the transcript of record in this cause the following 
papers and proceedings: 

(1) Bill of Complaint and Exhibits. 

(2) Defendant’s Motion to Dismiss the Bill of Com¬ 
plaint. 

(3) Opinion of Mr. Justice O’Donoghue sustaining de¬ 
fendant’s Motion to Dismiss the Bill of Complaint. 

(4) Decree granting Motion to Dismiss and dismissing 
Bill of Complaint entered June 6, 1934. 

(5) Written Notation of Appeal. 

(6) Citation. J 

(7) Order setting appeal bond at $100 or in lieu tjhereof 
$50 in cash. 



52 


PACIFIC AIR TRANSPORT VS. 


55 (8) Memorandum—$50 in cash paid June 20, 1934. 

(9) Assignment of Errors. 

(10) This Designation. 

(11) Docket Entries. 

WILLIAM J. DONOVAN, 

, Attorney for Plaintiff. 


Service of foregoing acknowledged this 9th day of July, 
1934. 


LESLIE C. GARNETT, 

U. S. Attorney, 
Attorney for Defendant. 


56 Supreme Court of the District of Columbia. 


United States of America, 

District of Columbia , ss: 

I, Frank E. Cunningham, Clerk of the Supreme Court 
of the District of Columbia, herebv certifv the foregoing 
pages numbered from 1 to 55, both inclusive, to be a true 
and correct transcript of the record according to direc¬ 
tions of counsel herein filed, copy of which is made part 
of this transcript, in cause No. 57042 in Equity, wherein 
Pacific Air Transport, a Corporation, is Plaintiff and 
James A. Farley, an individual, is Defendant, as the same 
remains upon the files and of record in said Court. 

In testimony whereof, I hereunto subscribe my name 
and affix the seal of said Court, at the City of Washington, 
in said District, this 15th day of August, 1934. 

[Seal Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.] 

FRANK E. CUNNINGHAM, 

Clerk. 


Endorsed on cover: District of Columbia Supreme Court. 
No. 6289. Pacific Air Transport, a Corporation, Appel¬ 
lant, vs. James A. Farley, an Individual. United States 
Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Filed Aug. 
23, 1934. Henry W. Hodges, Clerk. 


(5369-C) 




^ ' a -- 1 

DtSTWr--^ 

, ' UMSJA 

BLED OCT 101934 



*r 


Court of Appeals;, ©(strict of Columbia 


April Term, 1934. 


No. 6287. 

_ : . j • -i ‘ 

Boeixg Air Transport, Ixc., a Corporation, Appellant. 

No. 6288. ' ' ., - 

~ N , . N ' 

National Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, 

Appellant. 

.« .« \ ‘« * • # . 

,| * H V , ,» , • , ^ * • • , » * 

No. 6289. >' . 

_____ i _• T . ’ . ^ s < 

Pacific Air Transport, a Corporation, Appellaait. 

No. 6290. 

Varney Air Lines, Inc., a Corporation, et al., 

Appellants, 

vs. 

i ■ • & *» _____ "* • \ ■ 

James A. Farley, an Individual. 


BRIEF ON BEHALF OF APPELLANT. 

*•' i . 4 . _ * ~ • 

~ 0 , * r « “ - , 

" * **,../ X i 

* ' > 

William J. Donovan, 

Attorney for Plaintiff, 

1010 Shoreham Building, 
Washington, D. C. 

Frederick W. Jackson, 

Carl Elbridge Newton, 

Ralstone R. Irvine, 

Of Counsel. 

< * 


Press of Byron S. Adams, Washington. D. 0. 






TABLE OF CONTEXTS. 


STATEMENT OF FACTS . 

ERRORS RELIED ON. 

ST A T U T ES A PPLICA BLE 


|Page 

) 1 

i 

9 
10 


ARGUMENT.j 12 


1. The Cancellation Without Prior Notice or 
Hearing of the Plaintiff’s Contracts for 
the Carriage of Air Mail and the Impo¬ 
sition Upon Plaintiff of Penalties Wiiiclj 
Will Prevent It from Bidding or Coin 
trading for the Carriage of the Air Mai| 
for a Period of Five Years Deprive This 
Plaintiff of Its Property Without “Duq 
Process of Law”.j-i-29 

II. This is Not a Suit Against the United! 

States.29-2,8 


III. This is Not a Suit Specifically to Enforce 
Contracts With the United States. 


•>o 


A. The Enjoining of the Imposition of tin 
Penalties Provided by Section 3 !/.*)( 
Whereby This Plaintiff is Precluded 
from Bidding for the Carriage of the 
Air-Mail Will Not Have the Effect of 
Specifically Enforcing a (.’out rad 
against the United States. 


40 


B. An Injunction to Restrain the Defen¬ 
dant from Enforcing or Attempting to 
Enforce His Order Dated February 9. 
1934, Purporting to Annul Plaintiff's 
Air-Mail Contracts Will Not Require 
the United States Specifically to Per¬ 
form Its Contracts. 41-50 












ii i Table of Contents Continued. 


Page 

IV. This Court May Enjoin the Threatened Im¬ 
position Upon This Plaintiff of Penalties 
Which Prevent it from Bidding* or Con¬ 
tracting for the Carriage of the Air-Mails 
for a Period of Five Years.30-58 


V. The Purported Order Issued by Defendant 
Farley Was Beyond the Scope of His Au- 
thoritv as Postmaster (ieneral. 58-60 

VI. The Plaintiff Has Xo Adequate Remedy at 

Law.lit Mil 


CONCLUSION. (31 

EXHIBIT A: 

Advertisement for Temporary Air Mail Ser¬ 
vice .62-70 


EXHIBIT B: 

Text of the Announcement Made March 28;h, 

1934, bv Postmaster General Farlcv With 
• _ • 

Reference to Temporary Air Mail Servlet*. 
Together With the Routes to be Serviced. .71-74 


TABLE OF CASKS. 

Accardo v. Fontenot, 269 Fed. 447 (1920), Affd. 

278 Fed. 871 (1922). la 

Allgever v. Louisiana, 1(33 U. S. 378, 389 (1897).. 27 

Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10, 18. 38 

Brooks-Seanlon Corporation v. United States. 263 

U. S. 106 (1924) . 24 

Buchanan v. Warley, 243 U. S. 60 (1917) . 28 

Calm v. United States, 152 U. S. 211 (1894). 13 

Chicago & X. W. R. Co. v. Ochs, 249 U. S. 416 
(1919) . 


20 













Table of Contents Continued. 


in 


.JO 


Page 

Cincinnati v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 223j 

U. S. 390 (1912) .| 24 

Colorado v. Fall, Superintendent of the Rocky 
Mountain National Park, 208 l\ S. 22b (192b) 

Cummings v. Missouri, 4 Wall. 277 (1806).| 52 

Dogge v. Hitchcock, Postmaster (Jeneral, 229 U. S.J 

1G2 (1913) .. 37 

Dohany v. Rogers, 281 C. S. 3G2, 3G9 (1930). 1G 

Ex Parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333 (18GG).j 52 

Kx Parte Youn$r, 205) l'. S. 12:5 (15)08).550, 3j>, 53 

Garfield v. Goldsby, 211 l'. S. 245) (15)08).21, 

Hagood v. Southern, et al., 117 U. S. 52 (188G).. 48, 49 

Hall v. Wisconsin, 103 U. S. 5 (1880). 24 

Heath v. Wallace, 138 U. S. 573 (1891). 15 

Holden v. Hardy, 1G9 U. S. 3GG, 390, 391 (1898)! 

27, 28, 25) 

Hurtado v. California, 110 C. S. 51G, 535 (1884).. 16 

In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443 (1887) . 50 

Interstate Commerce Conmrn. v. Louisville & N. 

R. Co., 227 C. S. 88, 93 (1913). 23 

Kennelt v. Chambers, 14 How. 38 (1852). 15 

Lipke v. Lederer, 259 C. S. 557 (1922).2 

Long Island Water Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 

C. S. 685, G90 (1897) .!.! 24 

Louisiana v. McAdoo, 234 U. S. 627 (1914). 50 

Ludwig v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 216 U. S. 

14G (1910) .2d, 61 

Lynch v. United States, 292 U. S. 571 (1934). 24 

William P. MaeCracken, .Jr., v. Chesley W. Jur- 
ney, (Unreported, Court of A])peals for the 
District of Columbia, decided July 9, 1934).. 12 

Magruder v. Belle Fourche Valley Water User’s 
Ass’ii., 215) Fed. 72 (1914)..'.4l,45 


♦ >•> 


















IV’ 


Table of Contents Continued. 


Page 

Miguel v. McCail 291 U. S. 442 (1934). 38 

Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 183 U. S. 373 (1902).... 50 

Missouri Pac. Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 217 U. S. 196 

(1910) . . . 1. ...! . 20 

Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 

U. S. 312 (1893) . 24 

National Remedy Co. v. Ilyde, Secretary of Agri¬ 
culture, 50 Fed. (2d) 1066 (1931) .'. 38 

New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 

U. S. 650, 673 (1885) .. 24 

Norwegian Nitrogen Co. v. United States, 228 

U. S. 294, (1933) . 18 

Ochoa v. Hernandez, 230 U. S. 139 (1913). 15 

Payne, Secretary of the Interior v. Central Pa¬ 
cific Railway Co., 255 U. S. 228 (1921).38, 44 

Pennsylvania v. West Ya., 262 U. S. 553 (1923).. 54 

Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 605 (1912) 35 

Poindexter v. Greenhow, 114 U. S. 270 (1884). .38, 60 

Pritchard v. Norton, 106 U. S. 124 (1882). 24 

Roper v. Wells, 246 U. S. 335 (1918).46, 48 

Santa Pei Pacific Railroad Co. v. Pavne, 267 Fed. 

653 (1920) . 15 

Santa Fe Railroad Co. v. Fall, 259 U. S. 197 (1922), 

; 24, 32, 3S, 41, 42 

Smvth \'. Ames, 169 U. S. 466. 54 

Southern Railway Co. v. Virginia, 290 U. S. 190 

(1933) ... .*.16,23 

Sterling v. Constantine, 287 l . S. 378 (1932).... 33 

Terrace v. Thompson, 263 U. S. 197, 214-215 

(1933). 57 

Truax v. (Corrigan, 257 U. S. 312 (1921). 26 

Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 38 (1915). 26 


















Table of Contents Continued. 


'Page 

United States v. Brewer-Elliott Oil and Gas Co!, 

249 Fed. 609 (1918) . j. 15 

United States v. Dominici, 78 Fed. 334 (1897)... |. 15 

United States Harness Co. v. Graham, 288 Feci. 

929 (I). C., X.D. W. Va., 1921). j. 22 

Unity School of Christianity v. Federal Radio 

Commission, 64 Fed. (2d) 550 (1933). 22 

Vicksburg Waterworks Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S| 

65 (1902) . 


oo 


o 

O 


West River Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 How. 507 (1848) . 24 

Work v. Louisiana, 269 U. S. 250 (1925).. 38 

STATUTES CITED. 

Air Mail Aet of February 2, 1925 (43 Stat. 805 

39 U. S. (2 A., See. 464). 

Independent Offices Appropriation Act of June 16 

1 92.'! (41 U. S. ('. A., See. 24a).jo, 59 

5 U. S. C. A., Sec. 369 (Duties of the Postmastej 

General). 60 

32 U. S. C. A., Sec. 432 (Rev. Stat. 3950) (Com¬ 
bination to prevent bids). .7, 10, 23, 26, 27, 32, 33, 

39, 40, 42, 50-51, 5S 

Wat res Act of April 29, 1930 (39 U. S. C. A.j 
Sec. 465c) .4,5,11,12 


MISCELLANEOUS CITATIONS. 

Mott, “Due Process of Law”, Sec. 90. 

Freund, “Police Power” (1903), Secs. 520-528. J 


18 

18 













Court of Appeals, district of Columfita 


April Term, 1934 


No. 6287 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, Appellant 

No. 6288 

National Aik Transport, Inc., a Corporation, 

Appellant 

No. 6289 

I 

Pacific Air Transport, a Corporation, Appellant 

No. 6290 

Varney Air Lines, Inc., a Corporation, et al., 

Appellants 


James A. Farley, an Individual 


i 

BRIEF ON BEHALF OF APPELLANT 


STATEMENT OF FACTS 

These are general appeals from identical orders en¬ 
tered on June 6, 1934, sustaining motions to dismiss 
the several bills of complaint. In each case tjhe mo- 





tion to dismiss prays that the bill of complaint be dis¬ 
missed for the following reasons: 

1. The bill of complaint does not state a good cause 
of action. 

2. The suit is virtually one against the United 
States. 

3. The plaintiff has a plain, adequate and complete 
remedy at law, namely, a suit in the Court of Claims 
for the alleged breach of contract. 

4. The suit seeks to control the official acts of the 

\ 

Postmaster General of the United States, which acts 
are within the scope of his authority and part of his 
official duties, and involve the exercise of judgment 
and discretion in respect to matters lawfully sub¬ 
mitted to his care. 


5. And for other reasons apparent on the record. 
(Record, hereinafter designated as R., pages 55-56). 

The facts alleged in the four petitions are substan¬ 
tially identical. For that reason this brief will be 
confined to a discussion of the facts alleged in the pe¬ 
tition in the case of Natiojial Air Transport, Inc., 


Plaintiff, v. \James A. Farleif, Defendant, Xo. 6288. 


This is the case which 


the defendant elected to dis¬ 


cuss on the argument of these cases in the Supreme 
Court of the District of Columbia. 


The material allegations of the petition are these: 

The plaintiff, National Air Transport, Inc., is a 
corporation of the State of Delaware organized in 
Mav, 1925, to engage in commerce and to carry on the 
business of transporting by air, passengers, freight, 
mail and other articles. (R. 2). 

The defendant, James A. Farley, has been Post¬ 
master General of the United States since March 4, 
1933. The ’petition seeks to restrain the defendant 



3 


from doing acts purportedly as Postmaster Genera 1 
of the United States but in fact acts which “aj*e not 
within the powers granted to him as Postmaster* Gen¬ 
eral by law, and, therefore, if done, would not be of- 
iicial acts of the Government by its Postmaster Gen- 
eral.” The defendant, Farley, is sued individually 
and not in his official capacity of Postmaster General 
of the United States. (R. 2). | 

For many years it has been the policy of the United 

States Government to foster commercial aviation. It 

✓ 

was to promote this policy that the Congress has re¬ 
peatedly provided by statute that contracts fo|r the 
carriage of mail should be made with commercial air 
transport companies. (R. 5). 

On February 2, 1925, an Act known as the Air! Mail 

Act (43 Stat. 805) was enacted. The Act gavje the 

Postmaster General authoritv to make contracts for 

* 

the carriage of mail bv air. By the act the pav of 
contractors was limited to four-fifths of the postal air 
mail revenue derived from the carriage of mail over 
a particular route, and contracts were let on the basis 
of the amount of air mail actually carried. (R. 5). 

Pursuant to the provisions of the “Air Mail jAct” 
the plaintiff entered two contracts with the United 
States as follows: On November 7, 1925, the plain¬ 
tiff was awarded the contract for the carriage of air 
mail over a route known as Route A.M. 3. This lfoute 
extended from Chicago, Illinois, to Dallas, Texas,| and 
return. On April 2, 1927, the plaintiff was awarded 
the contract for the carriage of mail by air over a 
route known as Route A.M. 17. This route extended 
from Xew York, X. Y., to Chicago, Illinois, and re¬ 
turn. The contracts provided for payment to iXa- 



4 


tional Air Transport Company, Inc., on the basis of 
the amount of mail carried, but without regard to the 
distance over which it was flown. These contracts 
remained in full force and effect until surrendered in 
the manner hereinafter set out. (R. 3-5). 

Beginning in 1928, it became apparent that the sys¬ 
tem adopted by the United States and the Post Office 
Department of paying air mail transport companies 
on the basis of the amount of mail carried but without 
regard to the distance it was flown was inequitable 
and unprofitable to air transport companies. To re¬ 
move this inequitable method of payment and to pro¬ 
mote the policy of developing an efficient air trans¬ 
portation service, both for the carrying of passengers 
and of air mail. Congress, on April 29, 1930, passed 
the so-called Wat res Act (39 United States ('ode, Sec¬ 


tion 4(>5c). This statute changed the basis of payment 
from the amount of air mail carried to the number 


and regularity of flights made between certain points 
by airplanes having a certain air mail space capacity. 
The Act provides as follows: 


“Th!e Postmaster General may, if in his judg¬ 
ment the public interest will be promoted thereby, 
upon the surrender of any air-mail contract, issue 
in substitution therefor a route certificate for a 
period of not exceeding ten years from the date 
service started under such contract to any con¬ 
tractor or subcontractor who has satisfactorily 
operated an air-mail route for a period of not less 
than two years, which certificate shall provide 
that the holder thereof shall have the right, so 
long as he complies with all rules, regulations 
and orders that may be issued by the Postmaster 
General for meeting the needs of the Postal Serv¬ 
ice and adjusting mail operations to the advances 




in the art of flying and passenger transportation, 
to carry air mail over the route set out in jtlie cer¬ 
tificate or anv modification thereof at rates of 
compensation to be fixed from time to tjime, at 
least annually, by the Postmaster General,! and he 
shall publish in his annual report his reasons for 
the continuance or the modification of anV rates: 

• I 

Provided, That such rates shall not exceejd $1.25 
per mile. Such certificate may be cancelled at any 
time for willful neglect on the part of the! holder 
to carry out any rules, regulations, or ordeijs made 
for his guidance, notice of such intended cancel¬ 
lation to be given in writing bg the Postmaster 
General and fortg-fice dags allowed the holder in 
which to show cause whg the certificate should not 
be cancelled. (Italics supplied.) (R. (i). 


Pursuant to the provisions of the “Watres Act” 
plaintiff offered to surrender its existing contracts 
for the carriage of the mails over Routes A.M 3 and 
A.M. 17 respectively. Pursuant to the authority vested 
in him bv the Wat res Act the Postmaster General 
duly accepted the surrender of the said contracts and 
on May 3, 1930, and October 22, 1930, respectively, 
issued in substitution therefor Route Certificate A.M. 
3 and Route Certificate A.M. 17. (R. 7-!)). Each of 

these route certificates provided that: 

The National Air Transport should furijish a 

specified service for the carriage of the mail! for a 

period of not to exceed ten years; for this serjviee it 

was to be paid at rates of compensation to bo fixed 

annuallv bv the Postmaster General but not to ex- 
• • 

ceed $1.25 per mile: the issuance and acceptance of 
the certificates was to be doomed a mutual relejase of 
the United States and the carrier from all the forms, 
conditions and obligations of the prior contracts ex- 



6 


isting between them: the route over which the carrier 
agreed to carry the mail was specified and was to in¬ 
clude “any extension or other modification of said 
route that may be made as hereinafter provided"; 
the Postmaster General upon sixty days' notice to the 
carrier might modifv the route bv anv extension, or 
extent ions thereof; the service which the plaintiff 
agreed to provide might he increased, diminished or 
modified by the Postmaster General upon sixty days’ 
notice to the carrier; upon forty-five days’ notice the 
certificate might be cancelled bv the Postmaster Gen- 
oral for willful neglect by the carrier to carry out 
any rules or orders for its guidance. Each certificate 
recited that the “Carrier has satisfactorily operated 
said air route over a period of not less than two years 
* * (R. 29, 3G.) 

By virtue of these route certificates the plaintiff ac¬ 
quired a vested property right to carry air mail and 
receive the compensation specified upon compliance 
with the terms and conditions of the certificate. (This 
proposition seems to have been conceded since on the 
oral argument in the Supreme Court of the District 
of Columbia the defendant argued that the Route Cer- 
tificates were in effect contracts between the United 


States and the plaintiff). 

Pursuant to these certificates the plaintiff entered 
into the performance of its duties and at all times has 
duly performed all of the terms and conditions of the 
certificates. It is further alleged that the plaintiff 
has violated no law, rule or order of the United States 


or of the Post Office Department. (R. 9). 

On February 9, 1934, without giving notice or op¬ 
portunity for hearing to the plaintiff, the defendant, 
James A. Farley, purporting to act in his official ca- 


pacify as Postmaster General of the United (States, 
but in realitv acting individually, arbitrarily andl with- 
out any legal authority, purported to annul plajntilf’s 
Route Certificates A.M. 3 and A.M. 17. The oijder of 
the defendant recited that the annulment wasl made 
“pursuant to the authority vested in me by ejection 
3950, Revised Statutes of the United States, Act of 
June 8, 1873 (39 United States Code Section 433), and 
by virtue of the general powers of the Postmaster 
General/' (R. 11-13). ! 

Section 3950 of the Revised Statutes under which 
the defendant purported to act in cancelling the con¬ 
tracts of plaintiff provides that: 

“Combinations to prevent bids. Xo contract 
for carrying the mail shall be made with any per¬ 
son who has entered, or proposed to enter, into 
any combination to prevent the making of ai y bid 
for carrying the mail, or who has made any agree¬ 
ment, or given or performed, or promised to give 
or perform, any consideration whatever to iijiduee 
any other person not to bid for any such contract; 
and if any person so offending is a contractor for 
carrying the mail, his contract may be annulled; 
and for the first offense the person so offending 
shall be disqualified to contract for carrying tin* 
mail for five years, and for the second offense 
shall be forever disqualified/' 

The defendant, Farley, is attempting to carnj out 
the above orders purporting to cancel plaintiff’s (con¬ 
tracts and he intends to prevent the plaintiff from 
bidding on any mail contract or carriage for a pcjriod 
of five years as a penalty for the alleged violation of 
Revised Statutes, Section 3950. (R. 17). 

The plaintiff duly filed its protest against the acjtion 
of James A. Farlev in declaring that Route Cehifi- 



cates A.M. 3 and A.M. 17 wore annulled, and notified 
the Postmaster (tenoral that it has been and is at all 
times ready, 'able and willing to comply with all the 
terms and conditions of its route certificates. (K. 


13-1(5). 

The petition states that the paintiff is being deprived 
of its property without due process of law in violation 
of the Fifth !Amendment of the Constitution of the 
United States in that if has not been notified of or 
given an opportunity / to be hoard as to whether its 
route certificates should be cancelled <>r whether it has 
violated anp of the rules, regulations or orders of the . 
Post waster General and in that the action of the Post¬ 
master General in purporting to annul the route cer¬ 
tificates of the plaintiff is wholly arbitrary, illegal and 

without anv authorin' in law. 

» • 

It is further alleged that the plaintiff is without a 
clear, adequate and speedy remedy at law and that 
only by injunctive process of this court can it be fully 
protected in the enjoyment of its property rights un¬ 
der the route certificates and under the constitution 
and laws of the United States. 

The petition prays: 


“(P>) That the defendant, his agents, subordi¬ 
nates and employees and each of them be enjoined 
and restrained from in any manner enforcing or 
attempting to enforce the purported order of the 
defendant Farley, dated February 1), 1934, pur¬ 
porting to annul the plaintilY's Koute Certificates 
A.M. 3 and A.M. 17. 

“(C) 'That the defendant Farley be com¬ 
manded and directed by this Court to revoke so 
much of his purported order of February 9, 1934, 
set forth in paragraph ‘JO hereof, as relates to 
Routes A.M. Xos. 3 and 17. 



9 


“(D) That defendant Farley be enjoined and 
restrained from imposing or attempting tj) im¬ 
pose* any penalty upon plaintiff by reason of the 
said purported order. 

“(E) That the* plaintiff have judgment against 
the defendant Farlev for all such damages as, 
upon the determination of this cause, shall be 
found by this Court to have been caused to plain¬ 
tiff by the unauthorized, unlawful and arbitrary 
acts of defendant Farley, herein complained of. 

“(F) That tin* plaintiff’ have such other and 
further relief as to the Court may seem justj and 
equitable in the* premises..(R. 17-1S) 


ERRORS RELIED ON 

The Court erred: 

1. In dismissing the bill of complaint. 

2. In failing to hold that the Court had jurisdiction 
of the suit. 

3. In holding that tin* suit is essentiallv a suit 

V • 

against the United States. 

4. In holding that the suit involves the handling of 
the mails and therefore involves the property of the 
United States. 

5. In failing to hold that the acts of the defendant 
Farley complained of were unauthorized by law and 
therefore void. 

(i. In failing to hold that defendant Farley is indi¬ 
vidually responsible for his unauthorized acts and jliat 
he is subject to injunction therefor. 

7. In failing to hold that no interest of the Unjted 

States would be affected by the granting of the relief 
sought. | 

8. In holding that the plaintiff has an adequate rain¬ 
ed v at law bv suit in the Court of Claims. 



10 


9. In holding that the acts complained of do not 
violate the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of 
tiie United States or the rights thereby preserved to 
the plaintiff. 

10. In failing to hold that Section 3950 of the Re- 
vised Statutes, insofar as it seeks to impose pains and 
penalties is unconstitutional as applied to this plain¬ 
tiff upon the facts set forth in the complaint, because 
constituting a bill of attainder. 

11. In holding that the Court could not properly en¬ 
join the imposition of any such penalty prior to the 
actual imposition thereof. 

12. Tn failing to hold that the facts alleged in the 
complaint call for equitable relief. (R. 58-59). 


j STATUTES APPLICABLE 

Section 3950 of the Revised Statutes of the United 
States (39 U.S.C.A. Sec. 432): 

“Combinations to prevent bids. Xo contract 
for carrying the mail shall be made with any per¬ 
son who lias entered, or proposed to enter, into 
any combination to prevent the making of any 
bid for carrving the mail, or who has made anv 
agreement, or given or performed, or promised 
to give or perform, any consideration whatever 
to induce any other person not to bid for any such 
contract: and if any person so olfending is a con¬ 
tractor for carrving the mail, his contract mav be 
annulled: and for the first offense the person so 
offending shall be disqualified to contract for 
carrving the mail for five vears, and for the sec- 
ond offense shall be forever disqualified.” 


Section 5;of Chapter 101 of the Act of June 16, 1933, 
known as the Independent Offices Appropriation Act, 
(48 Stat. 305: 41 U.S.C.A. Sec. 24A) : 



11 


“Cancellation of contracts for transportation; 
compensation. 

“Whenever it shall appear to the President, in 
respect of any contract entered into by the United 
States prior to June 1(>, 1933, for the transporta¬ 
tion of persons and/or things, that the full per¬ 
formance of such contract is not required jn the 
public interest, and that modification or cancel¬ 
lation of such contract will result in substantial 
savings to the United States, the President is 
hereby, upon giving sixty days' notice and oppor¬ 
tunity for public hearing to the parties to such 
contract, authorized, in his discretion, on or be¬ 
fore April 30, 1933, to modify or cancel such con¬ 
tract. Whenever the President shall modifv or 
cancel any such contract, he shall determine just 
compensation therefor: and if the amount there¬ 
of, so determined by the President, is unsatisfac¬ 
tory to the individual, firm, or corporation en¬ 
titled to receive the same, such individual, firm, 
or corporation shall be entitled to receive such 
portion thereof as the President shall determine 
and shall be entitled to sue the United States to 
recover such further sum as, added to said por¬ 
tion so received, will make up such amount as 
will be just compensation therefor, in the maimer 
provided for by paragraph 30 of section 41j and 
section *230 of Title *28: ProrvJerf, That wherj* any 
such contract makes provision for settlement in 
the event of modification or cancellation, the 
amount of just compensation as determined Jierc- 
under shall not exceed such amount as is author¬ 
ized by said contract. Any appropriation oat of 
which payments upon the said contract wore au¬ 
thorized to be made is herebv made available for 
the payment of such just compensation.” 


The Wat res Act of April *2!), 1930, (39 U.S.C.A. Sec. 
4G5c): 



12 


“Air mail contracts; substitution of air mail 
route certificates; rate of compensation; cancel¬ 
lation of certificates. The Postmaster General 
may, if in his judgment the public interest will be 
promoted thereby, upon the surrender of any air¬ 
mail contract, issue in substitution therefor a 
route certificate for a period of not exceeding ten 

vears from the date service started under such 
• 

contract to anv contractor or subcontractor who 
has satisfactorily operated an air-mail route for 
a period of not less than two years, which certifi¬ 
cate shall provide that the holder thereof shall 
have the right, so long as he complies with all 
rules, regulations, and orders that may be issued 
by the Postmaster General for meeting the needs 
of the Postal Service and adjusting mail opera¬ 
tions to the advances in the art of flying and 
passenger transportation, to carry air mail over 
the route set out in the certificate or any modi¬ 
fication thereof at rates of compensation to be 
fixed from time to time, at least annually, by the 
Postmaster General, and he shall publish in his 
annual report his reasons for the continuance or 
the modification of any rates: Provided, That 
such rates shall not exceed £1.2') per mile. Such 
certificate mav be canceled at anv time for will- 
ful neglect on the part of the holder to carry out 
any rules, regulations, or orders made for his 
guidance, notice of such intended cancellation to 
be given in writing bv the Postmaster General 

and fortv-five da vs allowed the holder in which 
» * 

to show cause whv the certificate should not be 
canceled. ’ ’ 

ARGUMENT 


This case arises on motion to dismiss the bill of 
complaint. For the purpose of this appeal the facts 
alleged in the petition must therefore be taken as true. 
(William P. llacCracken, Jr. v. Chesley W. Jurney , 



13 


Unreported, Court of Appeals for the District pf Co¬ 
lumbia, (decided July 9, 1934). | 

This Court must assume that the following allega¬ 
tions of the complaint are true: 

First: On February 9, 1933 (the date on wliijch the 
defendant purported to cancel the plaintiff's j route 
certificates) the plaintiff was the owner of valid and 
existing contracts for the carriage of the United 
States mail. 

Second: Prior to the filing of this bill of j com¬ 
plaint the plaintiff had complied with all the |erms ; 
covenants and conditions of its contracts for the car¬ 
riage of the mails. 

Third: The plaintiff has never entered or proposed 
to enter into any combination to prevent the making of 
any bid for carrying the mail, and has never made any 
agreement or given or performed, or promised t<p give 
or perform, any consideration whatever to inducje any 
other person not to bid for any such contract. 

Fourth: On February 9, 1933 the defendant pur¬ 
porting to act as Postmaster General “annulled" the 
plaintiff’s air mail contracts “without giving the 
plaintiff any prior notice awl without affording the 
plaintiff any opportunity to appear and defend ituelf.” 

Fifth: Without giving the plaintiff any pricer no¬ 
tice or opportunity to appear and defend itself against 
the charges, if any, which had been preferred against 
it, the defendant intends and threatens to injipose 
penalties upon this plaintiff which, for a period o|f five 
years, will preclude it from bidding or contracting for 
the carriage of the air mail. 

We come then to discuss this case in the light of the 
admitted facts. 



14 


I 


The Cancellation Without Prior Notice or Hearing* of 
the Plaintiff's Contracts for the Carriage of Air 
Mail and the Imposition Upon Plaintiff of Penal¬ 
ties Which Will Prevent It From Bidding or Con¬ 
tracting for the Carriage of the Air Mail for a 
Period of Five Years Deprive This Plaintiff of Its 
Property Without “Due Process of Law.” 


The Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the 
United States provides that no person shall be de¬ 
prived of “life, liberty, or property without due proc¬ 
ess of law." It is the position of the plaintiff that : 

(a) There was no due process of law in the taking 
of its property inasmuch as the plaintiff was not given 
any notice of charges pending or opportunity to ap¬ 
pear and defend itself. 

(b) The destruction of plaintiff's contractual rights, 
reputation and good will constitute a taking of "prop¬ 
erty" within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment of 
the Constitution. 

(c) The imposition of penalties which deprive the 
plaintiff of the right to acquire property and to con¬ 
tract with regard to property constitutes a taking of 
property within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment 


to the Constitution. 

(a) The Failure to Giro Xotice and an Opportunity 
for a Hearing Constitute a Taking of Property With¬ 
out "Due Process of Laic." 


The case at bar is not limited to the question wheth¬ 
er an administrative officer may annul a government 
contract without notice and hearing. This defendant 
threatens and intends to impose upon this plaintiff 
statutory penalties which will prevent it from bidding 



15 


or contracting for the carriage of the air mail (for a 
period of five years. The threatened imposition of 
this penalty is based on an ex parte finding thajt this 
plaintiff has conspired to restrain bidding on contracts 
for the carriage of the air mail. This Court knows 
judicially that subsequent to the filing of this 5 com¬ 
plaint the defendant as Postmaster General in| fact 
precluded this plaintiff from bidding on future! con¬ 
tracts for the carriage of the air mail. 1 This case 
therefore raises the further question whether j such 
penalties may be imposed without notice or hearing. 

The Supreme Court of the United States has con¬ 
sistently held that notice and hearing are “oi* the 
essence of due process of law.” 

In Ochoa v. Hernandez , 230 U. S. 139 (1913) “due 
process of law” was defined as follows: 

i 

“Without the guaranty of ‘due process! the 
right of private property cannot be said to exist, 


in the sense in which it is known to our laws. | The 
principle, known to the common law before Magna 
Chart a, was embodied in that charter (Coke, 2 
Inst. 45, 50), and has been recognized since the 
Revolution as among the safest foundations of 
our institutions. Whatever else map he uncer¬ 
tain about the definition of the term *due process 
of later all authorities agree that it inhibits the 
taking of one man's property and giving it to an¬ 
other, eontran/ to settled usages and modes of 


i Wo are attach ins her* t<> ns Kxhibit A, a copy of the Advertisement 
for Temporary Air Mail Service. Kxhibit P> is the text of the Announce¬ 
ment m:nlo M:irc!i 28, 1934, by Post muster General Karlov. The fallow¬ 
ing cases clear]v indicate that this Court may take judicial notice of 
such official publications of an executive officer: Ken nett t. Clumbers, 
14 How. 3S (1852); Heath r. Wallace. 138 U. S. 573 (1891); Ccha v. 
Cnited States. 152 t\ S. 211 (1894); United States v. Domhdci, 78 Fed. 
334 (1897): United States r. JirnccrElliott OiJ and Gas Co., 249 Fed. 
d09 (1918); Santa Ec Pacific Had road Co. v. Payne, 2<>7 Fed 053 
(1920); Accardo v. Fontenot', 209 Fed. 447 (1920), Affd. 278 Fee}. 871 
(1922). 



16 


procedure, and without notice or an opportunity 
for a hearing.'' (p. 1(51). (Italics supplied). 

In Doha)//) v. Itoycrs. 281 U. K. 362, 369 (1930), the 
Supreme Court pointed out certain of the limitations 
upon the due process clause. It is to he noted, how¬ 
ever, that the court again emphasized the fact that 
notice and hearimr are fundamental. The court 

V 

stated: 


“Thedue process clause does not guarantee to 
the citizen of a state any particular form or 
method of state procedure. Under it he may 
neither claim a right to trial by jury nor a right 
of appeal. Its. requirements are satisfied if he. 
has reasonable notice a//d reasonable opportunity 
to be hoard ami to present his claim or defense, 
due regard being had to the nature of the pro¬ 
ceeding and the character of the rights which may 
be affected by it. Reefs v. Michigan, 1SS U. S. 
505, 508: Hnnritz v. Xorth, 271 U. S. 40; Bauman 
v. Doss: 167 U. S. 548, 593: Backus v. Union Depot 
Co., supra, ]). 569." 


Similarly, in Hurtado v. California , 110 U. S. 516, 
535 (1884), due process of law was defined as being: 


“ * * * in the language of Mr. Webster, * * * 
‘the general law, a law which hears before it con¬ 
demns, which proceeds upon inquiry, and renders 
judgment only after trial." 


The necessity for notice and hearing before prop¬ 
erty rights may be effected by administrative edict 
was recently considered by the Supreme Court of the 
United States in Southern Railway Co. v. Virginia, 
290 U. S. 190, decided December 4, 1933. In that case 
a State statute, which provided that the Highway 
Commissioner could direct the construction of an 


17 


overhead crossing, was held unconstitutional because 
it in terms precluded the possibility of a hearing upon 
notice. 

The Court said: 

i 

“ ' * ' the question here is whether thcj chal¬ 
lenged statute meets the requirements of due pro¬ 
cess of law. Undoubtedly it attempts to give an 
administrative officer power to make final deter¬ 
mination in respect of facts—the character of a 
crossing and what is necessary for the public 
safety and convenience—without notice, without 
hearing, without evidence; and upon this cr\parte 
finding, not subject to general review, to ordain 
that expenditures shall be made for erecting a 
new structure. ’ 4 (pp. 194-5). 

The Court then continues with language which plight 
appropriately refer to defendant Farley in the case 
at bar: 

“ >• * * There would be nothing to show the 
grounds upon which the Commissioner based his 
conclusion. He alone would be cognizant bf the 
mental processes which begot his urgent opinion. 
* * * Before its pro pert}) ran be taken under the 
edict of an ad minis! rat ire officer the appellant is 
entitled to a fair hearing upon the fundamental 
facts. This has not been accorded. The judg¬ 
ment below must be reversed. * * * ” (pp. 198- 
9). (Italics supplied). 

The plaintiff asserts in this case that before its 
property, in the form of contract rights, good will and 
the right to contract with respect to property, c|m be 
taken under the edict of the Postmaster General the 
plaintiff “is entitled to a hearing upon the funda¬ 
mental facts.” 

The order of defendant Farlev was not tentative or 

% 

advisory. It purported to be a quasi judicial determi- 



18 


nation by an administrative officer that the plaintiff 
had fraudulently conspired to prevent bidding on con¬ 
tracts for the carriage of the air mail . 2 The necessity 
for adequate notice and hearing before such an order 
may validly issue was pointed out by the Supreme 
Court of the United States in Xortrrfjian Xitrof/cn Co. 
v. I’nitc/I Staff's, 288 V. S. 294, decided February 6, 
1933. In that case the Court clearly distinguished be¬ 
tween what is required in a statutory hearing 1 by the 
Tariff Commission which onlv advises and recom- 
mends to tjie executive and the traditional procedural 
requirement of notice and full hearing applicable to 
the action of administrative agencies. It said: 

■ ' ' Whatever the appropriate label, the 
kind of order that emerges from a hearing be¬ 
fore a body with power to ordain is one that im¬ 
pinges, upon legal rights in a very different way 
from the report of a commission which merely in¬ 
vestigates and advises. The traditionary forms 
of hearing appropriate to the one body are un¬ 
known to the other. What issues from the Tariff 
Commission as a report and recommendation to 
the President, may be accepted, modified or re¬ 
jected. If it happens to be accepted, it does not 
bear fruit in anything that trenches upon legal 
rights. No one has a legal right to the mainte¬ 
nance of an existing rate or dutv. Neither the 
action of Congress in fixing a new tariff nor that 
of the President in exercising his delegated power 
is subject to impeachment if the prescribed forms 
of legislation have been regularlv observed. It is 
verv different, however, when orders are directed 


-Such quasi judicial determinations bv an administrative officer should 
be distinguished from quasi legislative determinations. In the latter 
ease the administrative bodv is merely filling in the details of a general 
rule for future action already laid down by the legislature. In such cases 
the Courts have held that a notice and hearing are not always essential 
to the validity of the proceedings. See Freund, “Police Power” 
(1003) Sections 5-0 -52$; Mott. “Due Process of Law,” Section 90. 



19 


against public service corporations limiting their 
powers in the transaction of their business. 
They may be challenged in the courts if thcj effect 
is to reduce the charges to the point of cojnfisca- 
tion. Smyth v. Ames, 169 l'. S. 466. The|y may 
be challenged for other reasons when tlify are 
without evidence suj)porting them and are ljnerely 
arbitrary edicts. Interstate Commerce Co\mm’n. 
v. I i/in)/ Par. It. Co., 222 Y. S. 541, 547; 3 I a nil- 
facturers By. Co. v. United States, ‘246 IT. S. 457, 
481: . Northern Par. II//. Co. v. Dep't. public 
Works. 2 68 V. S. 39, 44;' Chieayo M. <£ St. f. By. 
Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 274 V. S. 34|f, 351. 
Tf. Sharfman, The Interstate (’ommerce| Com¬ 
mission, vol. II, p. 424. The ‘hearing’ that such 
commissions are to give must be adapted to the 
consequences that are to follow, to the attack and 
the review to which their orders will be subject. 
Interstate Commerce Comm'n. v. Louisrilld <f; X. 
P. Co.. 227 U. S. 88, 93; St. Louis-S. W. It)/. Co. 
v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n., 264 U. $>. 64; 
Atchison, T. ci* S. F. It. Co. v. United States, 284 
U. S. 248. The Commerce Act, as it stands today, 
and kindred statutes in the states, are injstinct 
with the recognition of a duty to give a hearing of 
such a kind that the courts will understand why a 
Commission has acted as it has if their Super¬ 
visory powers are afterwards invoked folr en¬ 
forcement or revision. * * * ” (pp. 318-19). 


Within the meaning of that case the order of de¬ 
fendant Farley is directed against this plaintiff in the 
transaction of its business. Unless enjoined by this 
court the defendant will impose penalties upoi} this 
plaintiff which will completely destroy its business. 
Certainly the hearing which would be “adaptable to 
the consequences that are to follow” the imposition of 
such penalties must be full and complete. The plain¬ 
tiff complains, however, because no hearing of any 
kind was ever granted. 



20 


In Missouri Par. IP/. Co. v. Nebraska. 217 U. S. 196 
(decided April 4, 1910), the Supreme Court of the 
United States held violative of the 14th Amendment 
a statute of Nebraska which undertook to require rail¬ 
roads, at their own expense, and without any provision 
for notice and hearing, to construct side tracks to anv 
strain elevator of not less than 15,000 barrel capacity, 
which might demand such track. The statute also 
subjected the railroad company to the risk of a fine of 
at least $500 if it awaited a hearing in court on the 
reasonableness of the demand for such track. It was 
sought to sustain the statute as a valid exercise of 
the Police Power. The Supreme Court of the United 
States treated the Act as a Police Power statute but 
held it to be unconstitutional. The Court in an opin¬ 
ion by Mr. Justice Holmes said: 

44 * * * It is also true that the states have 
power to modify and cut down property rights to 
a certain limited extent without compensation, for 
public purposes, as a necessary incident of gov¬ 
ernment—the power commonly called the police 
power. But railroads after all are property pro¬ 
tected by the Constitution, and there are consti¬ 
tutional limits to what can be required of their 
owners under either the police power or any other 
ostensible justification for taking such property 

awav. 

% 

44 * * * If the statute makes the mere demand 
(of the elevator company) conclusive, it plainly 
cannot’be upheld. If it requires a side track only 
when the demand is reasonable, then the railroad 
ought , at least , to be allowed a hearing in advance 
to decide whether the demand is within the art. 
* * *\" (pp. 206-07-08). (Italics added) 

In the later case of Chicago <£* N. IP. B. Co. v. Ochs, 
249 U. S. 416 (decided April 14, 1919), the Supreme 
Court sustained a similar order entered in compliance 




21 

with a statute requiring notice and hearing. Distin¬ 
guishing that statute from the one involved in the 
Nebraska case the Supreme Court declared: 

“The case of Missouri Pacific By. Co. jv. Ne¬ 
braska. 217 U. S. 196, on which the railroatjl com¬ 
pany relies, is plainly distinguishable. * * # the 
(Nebraska) statute made no provision for !a pre¬ 
liminary heariny before an administrative body 


and yet subjected the company to the 


st rat we 
} risk olj 


a line 


of at least five hundred dollars if it awaited a 
hearing in court on the reasonableness of the 
demand. 

“7/crr there was provision for a fall heariny 
before the commission and also in the district 
court of the county. * * *” (pp. 421-22). (Italics 
added.) 

The penalty which the defendant Farley seefcks to 
impose on this plaintiff is incomparably more Severe 
than the one condemned by the Supreme Court pi the 
Nebraska case. The penalty here sought to tie im¬ 
posed would for a period of five years prevent this 
plaintiff from bidding or contracting for the carriage 
of the mails. The imposition of such a penalty Would 
exclude this plaintiff from the business in which it is 
now engaged. 

The following are illustrative cases showing the 
necessity for notice and hearing before property may 
be taken as a result of an administrative order:' 

Garfield v. Goldsby , 211 U. S. 249 (1908), was an 
action for a writ of mandamus against the Secretarv 
of the Interior to compel him to restore the enrollment 
of complainant as a member of an Indian natioij car- 
rving with it the right to allotment of tribal lands. 
It appeared that the enrollment of complainant had 
been cancelled by the Secretary of the Interior without 
prior notice and hearing. In affirming the judgment 



oo 


of the Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia 
which required the Secretary to recognize the com¬ 
plainant as an enrolled member of the nation the Su¬ 
preme Court stated: 


* i 


it lias always been recognized that one 
who has acquired rights by an administrative or 
judicial proceeding cannot be deprived of tliem 
without notice and an opportunity to be heard. 

“The right to be heard before property is taken 
or rights and privileges withdrawn, which have 
been previously legally awarded, is of the essence 
of due process of law. It is unnecessary to recite 
the decisions in .which this principle has been re¬ 
peatedly recognized. It is enough to say that its 
binding obligation has never been questioned in 
this court.” (p. l2(»l2). 


In 1’ nit if School of ('h ristianit if v. Federal Radio 
Commission, (54 Fed. (2d) ”)f)0 (1933), the Court of 
Apjieals of tlie District of Columbia reversed a do; 
cision of the Federal Radio Commission which termi¬ 
nated, without a hearing, the existing radio station 
license of appellant. 

United States Harness Co. v. Graham, 288 Fed. 929 
(D. C., X. 1),. W. Ya., 1921), presents a striking paral¬ 
lel on its facts to the case at bar. In that case the 
court held that an order of the President declaring a 
government contract void (under assumed “general 
powers”), as well as the order of the Secretary of 
War issued pursuant thereto, were invalid because vio¬ 
lative of the due process clause of the Fifth Amend¬ 
ment to the Constitution, and overruled the motion to 
dissolve the injunction, saying (pp. 933-4): 


“The right to be heard before property is taken 
or rights or privileges withdrawn, which have 
been previously legally awarded, is of the essence 
of due process of law.” 



23 


See also: Lipke v. Ledcrer, 259 U. S. 5p i 
(1922); 

1. C. C. v. L. & X. R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 188 
(1913). | 

Section 3950, uiulor which the defendant jFarlev 

j * 

purported to act, does not in terms require notice and 
hearing. That section authorizes the impositjion of 
penalties which, for a period of five years, wonjd pre¬ 
vent a person found to have violated its provisions 
from bidding or contracting for the carriage of the 
mail. If it be held that Congress did not intend no¬ 


tice and hearing under the section, then it i: 


clear 


that the defendant Karlov acted under an unvonsti- 
tutional statute and therefore without statutory* au- 
thority. Southern Rail trap Co. v. Virginia, 290 U. S. 
190. But Section 3950 need not be construed in a man¬ 
ner violative of the Constitution. Lipke v. Lqderer, 
259 r. S. 54S, 502 (1922). This court should 

read the constitutional requirement of notice and 
hearing into the grant of administrative powejr con¬ 
tained in Section 3950. If this be done it is clealr that 
the defendant Farley has acted in violation of the 
Section and therefore without authority. But whether 
the defendant acted under an unconstitutional statute 
or in defiance of a constitutional requirement on|e fact 
is clear, namely, plaintiff has been deprived |of its 
property without notice and hearing and therefore 
without due process of law. 

(h) Plaintiff's contract it ral rights, reputation and 
pood will are property within the protection of the 
“due process" clause. 

The ex parte order of the defendant Farley dec 
that the air-mail contracts of the plaintiff “be and 


i 



24 


they are hereby annulled." The order therefore pur¬ 
ports to destroy the contract rights of the plaintiff 
without “due process of law.” The order necessarily 
violates the “due process” clause if contract rights 
are “property” within the meaning of the Fifth 
Amendment to the Constitution. 

It is settled, by many decisions of the Supreme 
Court, that contractual rights are property within the 
protection of the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments. 


Pritchard v. Xorton. 106 
page 132: 

Santa Fe Railroad Co. v. 


U. S. 124 (1882), at 
Fall, 259 U. S. 197 


(1922); 

Brooks-Sca)do)i Corporation v. United States, 
265 F. S. 106 (1924); 

Mononqaficla Xaviqation ( y o. v. United States. 
148 U. S. 312 (1893); 

Long Island Water Sup pi if Co. v. Brooklyn, 
166 U. S. 685, 690 (1897)*: 

Hull v. ir/NC'ow.s'/w, 103 U. S. 5 (1880); 

New' Orleans Has ('<>. v. Louisiana Liqht Co., 
115 U. S. 650, 673 (1885); 

Cincinnati v. Louisville ck XasJvville R. R. Co., 
223 U. S. 390 (1912): 

IIVs/ River Bridge Co. v. Dix, 6 How. 507 
(1848). 


In the recent case of Lynch v. United States, 292 
U. S. 571 (1934), the Supreme Court specifically held 
that contracts between the United States and its citi¬ 
zens are Within the protection of the Fifth Amend¬ 
ment to the Constitution. In that case the Court de¬ 
clared unconstitutional Section 17 of the Economy 
Act of March 20, 1933, which purported to repeal “all 
laws granting or pertaining to yearly renewable term 
insurance” issued under the War Risk Insurance Act. 



I 


25 


The Court pointed out that policies of insurance af¬ 
fected by the legislation were contracts wijtli the 
United States and the legislation was therefore void 
insofar as it purported to annul these contractual 
rights. In discussing the protection which the Con¬ 
stitution affords contracts with the United States the 

Court stated: j 

i 

“The Fifth Amendment commands that! prop¬ 
erty he not taken without making just compensa¬ 
tion. Valid contracts arc property , whether the 
obligor be a private individual . a municipolity, a 
Staff' or the United States. Rights against the 
United Staff's arising out of a contract with\ it are 
protected by the Fifth Amendment. United\states 
v. ('cut ml Pacific R. Co., 118 U. S. 22,5., 238; 
United States v. Northern Pacific Rg. Co., 25(i U. 
S. 51, 04, 07. When the United States enters into 
contract relations, its rights and duties therein 
are governed generally by the law applicable to 
contracts between private individuals. 6 That the 
contracts of war risk insurance were valid when 
made is not questioned. A* Congress had the 
))ower to authorize the Bureau of 11 ar Risk In¬ 
surance to issue them, the due process clause 
prohibits the United States from annulliug\ them 
unless, indeed, the action .taken falls within the 
federal police power f>r some other paraUount 
power.” : (p. 579). (Italics supplied). 


6 Compare United States v. Bank of the Metropolis, 15 Pet. 377, 
392; The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. G66, G75; Garrison v. United 
States, 7 Wall. 688, 690: Smoot’s Case, 15 Wall. 3G, 47; Venmlye 
& Co. V. Adams Express Co., 21 Wall. 138, 144; Cooke v. United 
States, 91 U. S. 389, 39G; United States v. Smith, 94 U. 214, 
217; Hollerbach V. United State s, 233 U. S. 165, 171; Reading 
Steel Casting Co. v. United States, 2G8 U. S. 186, 188; United 
States v. Sational Exchange Bank, 270 U. S. 527, 534. 

" Compare Lottery Case, 188 U. S. 321; Hipolite Egg Co. V. 
United States, 220 U. S. 45, 58; Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 
308, 323; Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries & Warehouse Cp.. 251 
U. S. 146; Calhoun v. Massic, 253 U. S. 170, 175. Compare Home 
Building & Loan Assn. v. Blaisdell, 290 U. S. 398, 430. 



26 


In Truax v. Raich, 239 U. S. 33, 38 (1915), the Su¬ 
preme Court held that the interest created by a con¬ 
tract at will was property protected by the due pro¬ 
cess clause. 

Another—and inevitable—effect of the defendant 
Farley's e.r parte and unconstitutional finding and 
proclamation that the plaintiff is guilty of fraudulent 
practices with respect to air mail contracts, is to in¬ 
jure its good-will. This fact is expressly alleged and 
for tin* purpose of this motion stands admitted. That 
this good-wiill is property within the protection of the 
due process clause is likewise established by the Su¬ 
preme Court of the United States. 

Trudx v. Corrigan. 257 U. S. 312 (1921): 

Ludicig v. HV.ster// Union Telegraph Co., 216 
U. S. 146 (1910). 

It is therefore submitted that the destruction of 
plaintiff's contractual rights, reputation and good-will 
constitutes ia taking of “property” within the mean¬ 
ing of the Fifth Amendment. 


(c) Plaintiff's right t<> acquire property and Jo 
contract with regard to property is “ property" with¬ 
in g the meaning of the Fifth Amendment to the Con¬ 
stitution. 


Under Farley's ex parte order purportedly issued 
pursuant to Section 3950 of the Revised Statutes, 
plaintiff ^automatically disqualified and barred from 
bidding on: anv contracts or contracting for the car- 
riage of mails for a period of five years. It is also 
specifically alleged that the defendant Farley intends 
to impose upon this plaintiff the penalties prescribed 


27 


by this Section. The Supreme Court has repeatedly 
declared that the imposition of such penalties consti¬ 
tutes a taking 1 of property within the meaning ^>f the 
“due process" clause of the Constitution. 

In Holden v. Hard//, 1(h) U. S. 3(16, 390, 391 (|89S), 
the Supreme Court indicated that “property” as 
used in the “due process" clause includes the |right 
to acquire property and to contract with regard to 
property as follows: 

“' ' ' Recognizing the difficulty in defining, 

with exactness, the phrase ‘due process of jlaw,’ 
it is certain that these words imply a conformity 
with natural and inherent principles of .justice, 
and forbid that one man's property, or riyht to 
pro-pert//, shall be taken for the benefit of another, 
or for the benefit of the State , without compensa¬ 
tion; and that no one shall be condemned in his 
person or property without an opportunity of be- 
in// heard tu his own defense. 

“As the possession of property, of which a per¬ 
son cannot be deprived, doubtless implies j that 
such properl// mat / be acquired , it is safe t(j say 
that a state law which undertakes to deprive] any 
class of persons of the yeneral /tower to acquire 
property would also be obnoxious to the same 
provision. Indeed, we may go a step further, and 
say, that as property can only be legally acquired 
as between living persons by contract, a </eneral 
prohibition ayainsf elite riny into contracts with 
respect to property, or haviny as their object^ the 
acquisition of property , would be equally invalid.” 
(Italics supplied) 


See also: AUqet/er v. Louisiana , 165 U. S. j 
589 (1897).’ 


o78, 


It is admitted that the defendant Farley intends 


to impose a penalty which will prohibit this plaiij 


it iff 


28 


from bidding on or entering any contracts for the 
carriage of the air mail. This prohibition will pre¬ 
vent this plaintiff from acquiring property in the form 
of contract rights. Within the meaning of Holden v. 
Hardy this plaintiff has been deprived of property. 

The case Buchanan v. Warley, 245 U. S. (>0 (1917), 
is also in point. That was an action for specific per¬ 
formance of a contract for the sale of real estate in 
the city of Louisville, Kentucky. The defendant, a 
white man, had agreed to sell certain property to a 
colored man. The contract provided that the pur¬ 
chaser should not be required to accept a deed to the 
property unless lie had the right “under the laws of 
the State of Kentucky * * * to occupy said property 
as a residence." An ordinance of the city of Louis¬ 
ville prevented the occupancy of a lot in the city by a 
person of color in a block where the greater number of 
residences were occupied by white persons. It ap¬ 
peared that the property was located in a block in 
which the greater number of residents were white per¬ 
sons. 

The ordinance of the citv of Louisville was set 
up in answer to the action for specific performance. 
The Court of original jurisdiction and the Court of 
Appeals of Kentucky held the ordinance valid and of 
itself a complete defense to the action. 

In reversing the judgment of the Kentucky Court 
of Appeals the Supreme Court of the United States 
distinctly pointed out that the word “property” as 
used in the Constitution includes the right to contract 
for and to acquire property. At page 217 of the opin¬ 
ion it is stated: 

“The Federal Constitution and laws passed 
within iits authority are by the express terms of 



that instrument made the supreme law of the 
land. The Fourteenth Amendment protects life, 
liberty, and property from invasion by the states 
without due process of law. Property is jmore 
than the mere thine: which a person owns. \lt is 
elementary that if includes the right to acquire, 
use , and dispose of it. The Constitution protects 
these essential attributes of property. Holden v. 
Ilardy. 169 U. 8. 366, 391, 42 L. Ed'. 780, 79'0, 18 
Sup. Ct. Rep. 383. (Italics supplied). 

The Constitution likewise protects the right to bid 
or contract for the carriage of the mails. 


II 

This Is Not a Suit Against the United States. 

It cannot be denied that a suit to enjoin an admin¬ 
istrative official from doing an unauthorized act is 
not a suit against the United States. Whether tljis is 
a suit against the United States is therefore a sijnple 
question. It is a question of agency. 11* we are .seek¬ 
ing to enjoin the defendant Farley from acting as an 
authorized agent or official of the United States then 
this is a suit against the United States. Andj the 
United States may not be sued without its consent. 
On the other hand if the defendant Farley was not 
authorized to annul the contracts of this plaintiff or 
to impose these penalties without notice and hearing 
then this is a suit to restrain the unauthorized acts 
of an individual and is not a suit against the United 
States. 

It is admitted on this argument that without notice 
or hearing the defendant Farley has attempted to an¬ 
nul the contracts of this plaintiff and now threatens 



30 


to impose drastic penalties upon it. This Court knows 
judicially that these penalties have in fact been im¬ 
posed upon the plaint ilT. (See Exhibits A and B, 
pages 62 to 72). We have shown that the plaintiff 
has thus been deprived of property without due pro¬ 
cess of laic within the meaning of the Fifth Amend¬ 
ment to the Constitution of the United States. 

It is the position of the plaintiff in this case that 
the Postmaster General has not been authorized and 
could not legallv be authorized bv Congress or the 
President to act in an unconstitutional manner— 
namely, to deprive this plaintiff of its property with¬ 
out notice or hearing, if this proposition is sound 
then this is a suit to enjoin the unauthorized act of 
an individual and is not a suit against the United 
States. 

This proposition was determined by the Supreme 
Court of the United States in the leading case of Ex 
Parte Young, 209 U. S. 123 (1908). That case was 
in the Supreme Court on an original application for 
leave to tile a petition for writs of habeas corpus and 
certiorari on behalf of Young as Attornev General of 
the State of Minnesota, who was then in the custodv 
of the United States Marshal for Minnesota by vir¬ 
tue of an order of the District Court which had ad¬ 


judged him guilty of contempt. The contempt arose 
out of petitioner's failure to comply with the pro¬ 
vision of an injunction which restrained him from en¬ 
forcing a state statute which lixed the passenger rates 
that could be charged bv railroads within the state. 

The Supreme Court of the United States dismissed 
the petition on the ground that the state statute was 
unconstitutional and held that the injunction had been 
properly granted. It was urged before the Court, 



I 


31 


however, that the Attorney General had a full! gen¬ 
eral discretion whether or not to enforce tlie statute 
and that therefore tlie Court could not interfere to 

control him as Attorney General in the exercise of 

• 

liis official discretion since to do so would in effcjct be 
to control the State of Minnesota which could not be 
sued without its consent. In answering this contention 
the Court stated: 

I 

‘ ; It is also objected that as the statute 1 does 
not specifically make it the duty of the Attorney 
General (assuming he has that general right) to 
enforce it, he has under such circumstances full 
general discretion whether to attempt its enforce¬ 
ment or not, and the Court cannot interfere tojeon- 
trol him as Attorney General in the exercise of 
his discretion. ! 

‘‘In our view there is no interference witli his 
discretion under the facts herein. There 4 no 
doubt that the court cannot control the exercise 
of the discretion of an officer. It can only direct 
affirmative action where the officer having some 
duty to perform not involving discretion,!but 
merely ministerial in its nature, refuses or neg¬ 
lects to take such action. In that case the court 
can direct the defendant to perform this merely 
ministerial dutv. Board of Liquidation v. Me- 
Cowb, 92 U. s: 531, 541. _ j 

The (/('Herat discretion regarding the enforce¬ 
ment of the Ian's when and as he deems appro¬ 
priate is not interfered with by an injunction 
which restrains the state officer from taking any 
steps towards the enforcement of an 'unconstitu¬ 
tional enactment to the injury of complainant. 
In such ease no affirmative action of any nature 
is directed, and the officer is simply prohibited 
from doing an art which he had no legal right to 
do. An injunction to prevent him from doing that 
which he has no legal right to do is not an inter- 



32 


ference with the discretion of an officer." (pp. 
158-9). (Italics supplied). 

See also: Santa Fc Railroad Co. v. Fall, 259 
U. S. 197 (1922). 

Similarly, in this case the general discretion im¬ 
posed in the Postmaster General of the United States 
is not interfered with by an injunction which restrains 
him from taking any step which will deprive this 
plaintiff of property in violation of the Fifth Amend¬ 
ment to tlie Constitution. In this case no affirmative 
action of anv nature need be directed. On the con- 
trary the sole relief prayed for by the plaintiIT is that 
the Postmaster General be enjoined from doing an 
unconstitutional act which he had no right to do. In 
the words of the Supreme Court, “An injunction to 
prevent him from doing that which he has no legal 
right to do is not an interference with the discretion 
of an officer." 

The opinion in the Young case clearly establishes 
that a public officer may be sued for the purpose of 
enjoining him from enforcing or from acting under 
an unconstitutional statute. In this case the defen¬ 
dant purported to act pursuant to the provisions of 
Section 3950 of the Revised Statutes and to the gen¬ 
eral powers conferred upon the Postmaster General 
by Statute. 1 Unless the constitutional requirement of 
notice and hearing is read into Section 3950, or anv 
other statute under which the Postmaster General 
purported to act in this case, it is clear that the Stat¬ 
ute is unconstitutional. (See pages 14 to 23, supra). 
The Young case squarely holds that a suit to enjoin 
the defendant Farley from acting pursuant to such 
an unconstitutional statute is not a suit against the 
United States. 



33 


It seems clear, however, that the Constitutional re¬ 
quirement of notice and hearing should be reaft into 
Section 3950 or any other statute authorizing the an¬ 
nulment of contracts and the imposition of penalties 
which preclude this plaintiff from bidding or contract¬ 
ing for the carriage of the air mail. See Lipke v. 
Lederer, 259 U. S. 557 (1922). If this be the proper 
construction of the section it clearly appears tjiat in 
failing to give notice and hearing the defendant Far¬ 
ley acted contrary to the provisions of the statute and 

therefore without anv authoritv. The cases with- 

* * 

out exception hold that the commission of such un¬ 
authorized acts bv officers of the United States may 

* I * 

be enjoined and that such actions are not suits against 
the United States. This was affirmed by the Supreme 
Court as recently as December 1932, in the caise of 
Sterling v. Constantine, 287 U. S. 378 (1932). In 
that case it was held that the Chief Executive Officer 
of a State, to-wit, the Governor, had been properly 
enjoined from preserving law and order as he| con¬ 
ceived it when in so doing lie over-stepped the limits 
of the Constitution. Surely defendant Farley cjmnot 
claim that his position in the government of the 
United States is higher than that of the Governor in 
the government of a State, or that his function of 
conducting the postal service is more closely asso¬ 
ciated with her essential interests than is the preserva¬ 
tion of law and order with the States. j 

The same rule of law was announced in Garfield, 
Secretary of the Inferior v. Gold shy , 211 U. S. 249 
H90S). That was an action in the Supreme Court 
of the District of Columbia for a writ of mandamus 
against the Secretary of the Interior to require him 
to erase certain notations which struck the nante of 



the relator from the rolls as an approved member of 
an Indian tribe. In sustaining the right to maintain 
the action the court stated: 


“It is insisted that mandamus is not the proper 
remedy in cases such as the one now under con¬ 
sideration. But we are of opinion that manda¬ 
mus mav issue if the Secretary of the Interior 
• • 

has acted wholly without authority of law. Since 

• • 

Marburp v. Madison, 1 (.’ranch, 137, it has been 
held that there is a distinction between those acts 
which require the exercise of discretion or judg¬ 
ment and those which are purely ministerial, or 

are undertaken entirely without authority, which 

• • 

may become the subject of review in the courts. 
The subject was under consideration in Soblr v. 
I’u-ion Hirer Loppinp Railroad, 147 U. S. 1(m, 
171, and Mr. Justice Brown delivering the opinion 
of the court, cites many of the previous cases of 
this court, and, speaking for the court, says: 

“ ‘IIV hare no doubt the principle of these de¬ 
risions applies to a case wherein it is contended 
that the act of the Head of a Department under 
anp view that could be taken of the facts that 
ire re laid Indore him, was ultra vires, and be pond 
the scope of his author'dp. If he has no power 
at all to do the act com plained of, he is as much 
subject to a)/ injunction as he would be to a man- 
da in us if he refused to do an act which the hue 
plainlfi 'required him to do. As observed by Mr. 
Justice Bradley in Board of Liquidation v. 31 c- 
Comb. 92 U. S. 7)31, 7)41: “But it has been well 
settled that when a plain official duty, requiring 
no exercise of discretion, is to be performed, and 
performance is refused, any person who will sus¬ 
tain personal injury by such refusal may have a 
mandamus to compel its performance: and when 
such didip is threatened to be violated bp some 
positive official art, anp person icho will sustain 
personal injurp therebp, for which adequate com- 



pen-sat ion cannot be bad at law, map hat\e an in¬ 
junction to prevent it. In such eases tfyc writs 
of mandamus and injunction art• somcikhat co- 
relative to each other”.'" (pp. 261-2). ; (Italics 
supplied). 


The following cases affirm the general doctrine that 
a suit to enjoin the unauthorized or unconsti utional 
acts of an official of the Government is not a suit 
against the United States: 

Philadelphia Co. v. Stimsou, 222 V. S. GO 7) '(1912), 
was an action brought in the Supreme Court of the 
District of Columbia to set aside certain harbor lines 
so far as they encroached upon land owned by the 
plaintiff and to restrain the Secretary of Wall* from 
causing criminal proceedings to be instituted against 
the complainant. The lower court had sustained a 


demurrer for the reason, among others, that tljis was 
a suit against the United States. Although tjie Su¬ 
preme Court affirmed the decree for other reasons, 
it held that the action was not a suit against the 
United States, stating at page 619: 

j 

*‘/f the conduct of the defendant constitutes 
an -unwarrantable interference with propcrtfi of 
the row plain a-)it , its resort to equity for protec¬ 
tion is not to be defeated upon the y round that 
the suit is one ayainst the United States. The 
exemption of the United States from suit does 
not protect its officers from personal liability to 
persons whose rights of property they j have 
wrongfully invaded. Little v. Barreme. 2 (branch, 
170; United States v. Lee. 10G U. S. 190, 220, 221 : 
Belknap v. S child, 161 U. S. 10, 18; Tin dal v. !!>*- 
ley, 1G7 U. S. 204; Scranton v. Wheeler, 179 U. S. 
141, 17)2. And in case of an injury threatened by 
his illegal action, the officer cannot claim im- 


36 


munity from injunction process. The principle 
lias frequently been applied with respect to state 
officers seeking to enforce unconstitutional en¬ 
actments. Osborn v. Hank of United States, 


Wheat, 738, 843, 868; Paris v. Ora if, 16 Wall. 
203; Pennoyer v. McConnaughy, 140 U. S. 1, 10; 
Scoff v. Donald, 163 XT. S. 107, 112; Smyth v. 
Ames, 160 U. S. 466; Hr parte Young, 200 V. S. 
123, 150, 160: Ludwig v. HVs/cn? Union Tele¬ 
graph ('<>., 216 lb S. 140; Herndon v. (\, H. /. cO 
V. H/f. Co,, 218 X . S. 135, 155; Hopkins v. Clem- 
son College , 221 V. S. 636, 643-645. And it is 
equally applicable to a Federal officer acting in 

excess of his authority or under authority not 

• • 

validly conferred. Noble v. Union Hirer Loaning 
IL H.'Co., 147 U. S. 165, 171, 172; School of'Mag¬ 
netic Healing v. McAnnulty, 187 X T . S. 04. 

“The com])lainant did not ask the court to in¬ 
terfere with the official discretion of the Secre¬ 
tary of War, but challenged his authority to do 
the tilings of which complaint was made. The 
suit rests upon the charge of abuse of power, and 
its merits must be determined accordingly; it is 
not a suit against the XTiitcd States.” (Italics 
supplied). 


In that case it was urged that the statute under 
which the Secretary of War purported to act was not 
unconstitutional and for that reason cases involving 
unconstitutional statutes were not in point. In an¬ 
swering this argument the court stated: 

* ‘ The validity of the statute is not attacked, 
because of the assumption that it is not to be con¬ 
strued to contemplate or authorize the alleged de¬ 
privation of property. Where the officer is pro¬ 
ceeding under an unconstitutional act, its inval¬ 
idity suffices to show that he is without authority, 
and it is this absence of lawful power and his 


I 


37 


abuse of authority in imposing or enforcing in 
tlie name of the State unwarrantable exactions or 
restrictions, to the irreparable loss of the com¬ 
plainant, which is the basis of the decree. Ex 
parte Young, 209 U. S. p. 159. And a similar in¬ 
jury may be inflicted, and there may exist ground 
for equitable relief, when an officer, insisting that 
he has the warrant of the statute, is transcending 
its bounds, and thus unlawfully assuming!to oxer- 
cisc the power of government against the indi¬ 
vidual owner, is guilty of an invasion of! private 
property.” (pp. 621-22). 


Degge v. Hitchcock, Postmaster General, 2$9 U. S. 
162 (1913), was a petition for a writ of certiorari to 
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia to re¬ 
view an order made bv the Postmaster General after 

» | 

a hearing which directed the Postmaster not to de- 
liver mail to the petitioner. The Supreme (]ourt of 
the United States held that the lower court did not 
have jurisdiction inasmuch as the plaintiff >yas en¬ 


titled to adequate relief in a court of equity, 
connection the court stated: 


In this 


4 . 


* * * The Postmaster General could not exer¬ 
cise judicial functions, and in making fjhe de¬ 
cision he was not an officer presiding ovej* a tri¬ 
bunal where bis ruling was final unless reversed. 
Xot being a judgment, it was not subject ! to ap¬ 
peal, writ of error, or certiorari. Xot being a 
judgment in the sense of a final adjudication, the 
appellants were not concluded by his decision, 
for had there been an arbitrary exercise of statu¬ 
tory power or a ruling in excess of the jurisdiction 
conferred, they had the right to apply for and 
obtain appropriate relief in a court of equity. 


School of Magnetic Healing v. Me Annuli\ 
U. S. 94.' Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223| 
605, 620.” (p. 171). (Italics ours). 


y, 137 
U. S. 



Sec also: Payne, Seen tarn of the Interior v. 
('rut rat Pad fie Paificay ('<>., 27)7) U. S. 22S (11)21) ; 
Poij/de.cfer v. (irecnhmc, 114 U. S. 270 (1884); 
Mirjurl V. .l/rfW. 201 U. X. 442 (11 )34) : Bel- 
huaji v. Srh/hJ , 1 (51 l . S. 1() (lSD(J); Santa Fe 
Pari fir Baihcay ('<>. v. /A;//, Seeretan) of the In¬ 
ferior. 27)0 I'.'s. 107 (1022): Colorado v. 7o//, 
SuperintruJejp <,j the pocky Mountain Xatioi/a! 
Part:. 288 l . S. 227) (1027)); IUo/7»* v. Louisiana. 
2(50 1*. S. 27)0 (1027)). 

Ill Xatiouat Pemedy ('<>. v. Hyde. Secretary of Ay- 
rieulfurr. 7)0 Fed. (2d) 1000 (1031), this court held 
that a suit to restrain the Secretary of Agriculture 
from committinir an unauthorized act was not a suit 
against the United States or one in which the United 
States was an indispensable party. The court said 

(p. 1008): 

“ ’ * the action and proposed action of the De¬ 
partment would, under the averments of the hill, 
in elfect deprive appellant of its property through 
the destruction of its business before the issues 
involved 1 could be determined by the court. * 
Such a course of conduct on the part of the De¬ 
partment amounts to arbitrary exercise of power, 
and is a'deprivation of due process of law. It is 
not, therefore, a suit airainst the United States. 


The cases cited clearlv show that this i< a suit to 
enjoin the unconstitutional and unauthorized acts of 
the defendant Farley and that a suit to enjoin such 
acts is not a suit against the United States. 


39 


III. 


K*ep{ the 
;A'ii iu)in- 
a gainst 
s placed 
e to dis- 


i 

This is Not a Suit Specifically to Enforce Contracts 

With the United States. 

i 

In his brief in the Court below the defendant linked 

that this case is one wherein the decree ‘‘it entered 

for the plaintiff, would he directed against tlije United 

States for it * ' * would he a negative specific per- 

forniance compelling tile United States to :u 

])erforniance of the contract, and the case ihoi 

inallv airainst Farlev, ' * ' is actuallv a suit 
• * • « 

the United States." In view of the eniphasij 
hv the defendant on this proposition, we desii 
cuss it in the liidit of the admitted facts and with ref¬ 
erence to the relief asked. 

This plaintiff complains of two separate and irre¬ 
parable injuries which will he the direct and intended 
result of the unauthorized and unconst it lit ionajl acts ol 
the defendant Farley. Those injuries are: 

A. The threatened imposition upon this plaintiff of 
the penalties provided by Section 3950 of tine Iiovised 
Statutes which would prevent this company from bid¬ 
ding or contracting for the carriage of tlie air-mails 
for a period of five years. Tin* plaintiff asks |hat the 
defendant be enjoined from imposing or attempting to 
impose any sneli penalties upon the plaintiff. 


nxist ini* 
.» plain- 
on forc- 


B. The pur})orted annulment of plaintiff’s | 
contracts for the carriage of the air-mail. Th 
tiff asks that the defendant be enjoined from 
ini>* or attempting to enforce the order of anilulment 
and tliat the Court direct that such order be revoked. 

We come now to consider whether the liTautine; of 
any of this relief will compel tin* specific performance 
of its contracts bv the United States. 




40 


A. 

The Enjoining of the Imposition of tiik Penalties 
Provided by Section 3950 Whereby This Plain¬ 
tiff IS PRECLUDED FROM BIDDING FOR THE CARRIAGE 
of the Air-Mail Will Xot Have the Effect of 
Specifically Enforcing a Contract Against the 
United States. 

Il is admitted that for a period of five years the de¬ 
fendant Farley “intends to prevent the plaintiff from 
bidding on any mail contract or carriage for a period 
of five years as a penalty for an alleged violation of 
Revised Statutes, Section 395(1" 

This Court knows judicially that the defendant by 
his order dated the 2Sth day of March, 1934, has in 
fact precluded this plaintiff from bidding on contracts 
for the carriage of the mails. (See Exhibit A, page 
(52). 

It is respectfully submitted that the enjoining of 
the imposition of this penalty will not compel the 
United States to perform existing contracts. The 
right to bid on future air mail contracts is unrelated 
to existing contracts for the carriage of the air mail. 
A decree enjoining the imposition of this penalty 
would obviously leave the United States entirely free 
to stop performance or otherwise breach the existing 
contracts if it chose. A suit to obtain such relief is 
clearly not one to compel the United States to perform 
existing contracts. 


Ax Injunction to Restrain the Defendant from En¬ 
forcing or Attempting to Enforce His Order 
Dated February 9, 1934, Purporting to An¬ 
nul Plaintiff's Air-Mail Contracts Will Xot 
Require the United States Specifically to Per¬ 
form Its Contracts. 

The plaintiff does not ask that the United States 
specifically perform its contract. It does not rsk that 
the mails he delivered to its planes. It does not ask 
that the payment for its services be authorized. It 
prays merely that the defendant Farley be ep joined 
from unlawfullv interfering with its contract \\li th the 
United States. It is clearly established that | equity 
will enjoin interference by Government officers in con¬ 
tractual relations with the United States. Santa Fc 
Pacific Railroad Co. r. Pall, Secretary of the Inferior, 
259 U. S. 197 (1922) ; Mac/ruder r. Relic Fourehc Val- 
laj Wafer Users Association, 219 Fed. 72 (1914). 

The plaintiff* admits, arguendo, that it cot;Id not 
compel the United States to perform its contract. It 
further admits that if the defendant Farlev was act- 
ing within the scope of his authority in canceling this 
air-mail contract—i. e., pursuant to a constitutional 
statute and therefore upon notice and hearing—then 
upon proof of such fact the Court should limit its relief 
to enjoining the imposition of a penalty whereby this 
plaintiff for a period of live years will be precluded 
from bidding or contracting for the carriage of the air¬ 
mail. It submits, however, that unless and until the 
United States, acting through its duly authorized 
agents, undertakes to annul its existing contract^, that 
the suit is one to enjoin the unauthorized and umponsti- 



42 


tutional acts cj>t* an individual and not to enjoin the au¬ 
thorized acts ,of an a^'ent of tin* United States.”' The 
defendant Farley was not authorized to deprive this 
plaintiff of ifs pmpertv without notice and hearing. 

The enjoining of an unauthorized act does not in anv 

• 

manner affect the United States. The United States, 
act ini*’ through its duly authorized agents, would still 
have tin* physical power to refuse* to perform these con¬ 
tracts and in such an event this plaintiff would be with¬ 
out a remedy in equity. The relief for which this 
plaintiff asks would affect tiie defendant Farlev onlv 
insofar as he exceeded his authority as Postmaster 
General. The "xantini*; of such relief would not in anv 
manner restrain his official conduct as i > ostmaster 
General of the l nited States. 

The (piestion here presented was determined by the 
Supreme Court of the United States in San'?: Fr UaU- 
rtmtl ('<>. r. Faff. 2oh U. S. 1 ( J7 (1D22). That was an 
appeal from a judgment of the Court of Appeals of 
the District of Columbia dismissing a bill of complaint 
to enjoin the Secretarv of the Interior from cancelling 
selected sections of land and to require him to issue 
patents for such sections. 

It was provided by statute that the* Santa Fe Pail- 
road and its successors “may, when requested by the 
Secretary of the Interior so to do. relinquish or deed, 
as may In* proper, to the* b nited States," any sections 
of their land "-rant in Xew Mexico, “and shall then 
be entitled to select in lieu thereof, and have patented 
other sections of vacant public land of equal quality in 


;: An examination of pertinent statutes >hows eoiieluMvely that, 
nsiile t'rom >ueh authority as may be conferred by Seetiou oP-’u. the 
President ami not the Postmaster General is authorized to annul these 
contraets, ami tiien only Uj>on adequate not ire ami heariaj;. See pa^es 
to t>l. 


said Territory.” Pursuant to the provisions oi‘ this 
section the railroad company relinquished certain sec¬ 
tions of lands and made selections of other lands. 
Alter a lapse of some years the selections weite re¬ 
jected by the Secretary on the grounds of the greater 
value of the latter lands as shown bv investigation. 

The Supreme Court held that the Railroad Com¬ 
pany was entitled to enjoin the action of the Secretary. 
This result was reached on the theory that there 1 was 
a valid contract with the United States and that the 
Secretarv did not have anv authoritv to disregard its 
terms. The Court in an opinion by Mr. Justice Holmes 
stated at page 199: 


‘‘We are of opinion also that the company's 
position is right. At lirst sight the words of the 
statute entitling the Company to have patented 
other sections of equal quality ‘as may bo agreed 
upon with the Secretary of the Interior* mig.it be 
taken to sustain the decision below but upon con¬ 
sideration thev seem to us not to have that effect. 
The mo went that lauds were relinquished a the 
request of the Secretary a contract teas ntad< and 
the Government was hound to convey to the Com¬ 
pany such vacant lands within tin• Territory as 
the Company should select provided only that they 
were of equal quality. In theory of hue the ohliya- 
tion was immediate when the selection teas n\adc. 

that 


if it complied with the condition. It is trut 
the Secretary had to he satisfied upon that point, 
hut his discretion was not arbitrary; 

(Italics supplied). 

The relief to which the railroad company was held 
to be entitled restrained the Secretary of the Interior 
from interfering with the performance of a contract. 
It in fact compelled specific performance. The Court 
held, however, that the Secretary of the Interior acted 




44 


in abuse of and not pursuant to his official discretion 
and the suit was therefore not one against the United 
States but a suit to enjoin the unauthorized act of an 
individual. The relief granted goes much further than 
the relief asked for in the complaint at bar. 

Similarly, in Payne v. Central Pacific Railway Co., 
255 U. S'. 228 (1921), the Supreme Court of the United 
States expressly held that the Secretary of the Inte¬ 
rior could be enjoined by a Court of Equity from can¬ 
celling a valid and existing contract between the Cen¬ 
tral Pacific Railway Co. and the United States. 

That was a suit to enjoin the Secretary of the Inte¬ 
rior and the Commissioner of the General Land Office 
from cancelling a selection of land under a railroad 
land grant. At page 235 of its opinion the Court 
clearly stated that the selection of such land grant 
constituted a contract between the United States and 


the railroad company. 

It was urged before the Supreme Court that the 
action was a suit against the United States and that 
the court was, therefore, without jurisdiction. In re¬ 
jecting this contention the court stated: 


“We are asked to sav that this is a suit against 
the United States and therefore not maintainable 
without its consent, but we think the suit is one to 
restrain the appellants from canceling a valid in¬ 
demnity selection through a mistaken conception 
of their authority and thereby casting a cloud on 
the plaintiff’s title. Ballinger v. Frost , 216 U. S. 
240; Philadelphia Co. v. Sfimsou, 223 U. S. 605, 
619-620; Lane r. Watts, 234 U. S. 525, 540. 

“Our conclusion is that in giving effect to the 
withdrawal as against the prior selection, which 
admittedly was valid when made, the appellants 
departed from a plain official duty and that to 
avoid the resulting injury to the plaintiff, for 



which no other remedy is available, an injunction 
should issue direct ini** a disposal of the selection 
on its merits unaffected bv the withdrawal. ! * * *” 
(1). 238). ' | 

i 

In Magnider v. Belle Fourche Valley Water l (sers v 
Association. 219 Fed. 72 (U. (\ A. 8th Circuit, Il914), 
complainants sought to enjoin government officers 
from diverting from plaintiff’s land the watey of a 
public irrigation project. The government officers con¬ 
tended that it was a suit against the United States 
“and would compel specific performance of it 


s con¬ 
tracts”. (p. 78). 

i 

The court held, however, that it was no such thing 
because the officers' acts were unauthorized, and af¬ 
firmed an order granting an injunction restraining 
them from interfering with plaintiff's contractual re¬ 
lations with the United States, saying (p. 78): 

4 ‘* * * these acts are unauthorized by and con¬ 
tra rv to law. Tliev are, therefore, not the acts of 
the United States, and a suit to enjoin their per¬ 
formance is not a suit against the l nited States, 
or a suit to interfere with its property, or a 
suit to compel specific performance of its con¬ 
tracts. It is a suit to enjoin officers of the I nited 
States from unlawfully interfering with and di¬ 
verting its water from those persons lawfully re¬ 
ceiving and entitled to receive it, from unlawfully 
preventing the United States from discharging its 
duties and performing its contracts to the irre¬ 
parable injury of the plaintiff and its sharehold¬ 
ers. That an executive officer is committipg or 
about to commit acts unauthorized by 
law, to the irreparable injury of the property 
rights of the plaintiff, is a good cause of action 
against such officer for injunctive relief. * 

(Italics supplied). 



46 


In the court below the defendant cited certain cases 
in support of his contention that this is a suit to com¬ 
pel the United States to perform a contract, and, there¬ 
fore, a suit against the United States. "Without ex¬ 
ception these cases are to be distinguished upon the 
ground that the officer whom the court refused to en¬ 
join was acting within the scope of his authority, and, 
therefore, as an agent of the United States. We do 
not dispute this principle. The distinction bid ween 
the cases cited and the case at bar is that the defendant 

Farlev had no authority or discretion to destroy the 

• • • 


property rights of this plaintiff without notice and 
hearing. 

Chief reliance by the defendant was placed upon the 
case of Roper r. Wells. 246 U. S. MMf) ( 1P1S). That was 
a suit in equity brought in the Supreme Court of the 
District of Columbia to enjoin the First Assistant 
Postmaster General from annulling a contract between 


plaintiff and the Postmaster General acting for the 
United States. 


Under the contract the plaintiff agreed to furnish 
for a period of four years a number of specially 
equipped automobiles for collecting and delivering 
mail in the District of Columbia. The contract pro¬ 
vided that “any or all of the equipments contracted 
for herein may be discontinued at any time upon nine¬ 
ty days* notice from” the Postmaster General. 


Under a subsequent appropriation act the Postmas¬ 
ter General was authorized in his discretion to use a 
portion of tjie appropriation for the operation of ail 
experimental collection and delivery service. The 
Postmaster determined that such an experimental ser¬ 
vice should be established in the District of Columbia 
and accordingly notified the plaintiff that his contract 



47 




should be cancelled “under the provision of tlje con¬ 
tract which provides for discontinuance upon 9() days’ 
notice.” The plaintiff protested this decision, iln af¬ 
firming- the decree dismissing the bill the Court pointed 
out that the averments of the bill made it clear that 
the Postmaster General was acting within his official 
discretion, and, therefore, as an agent of the United 
States. For that reason the court held that tlje suit 
was one against the United States. The reason for 
the decision was stated at page 337 of the opinion as 
follows: 

I 

i 

“Both courts held it to be essentially an(i sub¬ 
stantially a suit against the United States and 
therefore beyond the jurisdiction of the couift, and 
in this view we concur. The effect of the injunc¬ 
tion asked for would have been to oblige the 
United States to accept continued performance of 
plaintiff’s contract and thus prevent the inaugu¬ 
ration of the experimental service contemplated 
by the Act of 1914—a direct interference with one 
of the processes of government. The argument 
to the contrary assumes to treat defendant \iot as 
% an official hut as an individual who although hap¬ 
pening to hold public office was threatening t\o per¬ 
petrate an unlawful aej outside of its function. 
But the averments of the bill make it deaf that 
defendant was without personal interest an\l was 
acting solely in Iris official rapacity and u:ifh\in the 
scope of his ditties. Indeed, it was only because 
of his official authority that plaintiff’s interests 
were at all endangered by what he proposed to 
do.” (Italics supplied). 


The case is therefore limited to the proposition that 
an official of the United States may not be enjoined 
when acting “solely in his official capacity and within 
the scope of his duties.” The limitations of this doc- 



48 


trine were expressly indicated by the Court when it 
stated that “The argument to the contrary assumes to 
treat defendant not as an official but as an individual 
who although happening to hold public office was 
threatening to perpetrate an unlawful act outside of its 
function.** The Court then proceeded to demonstrate 
that this assumption was not true in fact since the 
Postmaster General was acting solely “in his official 
capacity." This discussion would have been useless 
and meaningless unless the Court intended to imply 
that if the Postmaster General had exceeded his au¬ 
thority an injunction might issue. In the case at bar 
the defendant Farlev was not authorized to cancel 
these contracts without due process of law. The lan¬ 
guage which we have quoted from Roper r. 1 Veils sug¬ 
gests that a suit to enjoin an individual who although 
happening to hold public office threatens to perpetrate 
an unlawful act is not a suit against the Tinted States. 

In Ilayodd v. Southern, et al.. 117 C. S. 52 (1886), 
(cited by defendant below), it was held that a bill to 
compel the levying and collection of taxes and their 
application toward the* payment of plaintiff's bonds 
was directed toward the specific performance of the 
contracts of the State and was in substance a suit 


against the State and beyond the jurisdiction of the 
court. Like the case of Roper v. Wells, 246 U. S. 335 
(lblS), the decision is based on tlie fact that the suit 
sought to enjoin officers acting within the scope of 
their anthnrit y and in the exercise of their official dis- 
cretion. In the Ilagood case there was a mandate 
from the legislature, the executive and from the high¬ 
est court of the State which clearly and explicitly di¬ 
rected the officers sued not to collect taxes for the pay¬ 
ment of the bonds, etc. It did not appear that such 



49 


mandate was in any respect violative of the Constitu¬ 
tion. It was, therefore, apparent that in refuting to 
levy and collect such taxes, etc., the officers sought to 
be enjoined were acting within the express authority 
conferred upon them by the legislature, the executive 
and the courts of the State. The relief prayed for, 
therefore, would have required these officers to Signore 
the express mandate of the State. In this case we do 
not ask that the defendant Farley ignore his express or 
implied authority. On the contrary, our position is 
that the defendant Farley had no authoritv or disere- 
tion to destroy the property rights of this plaintiff 
without notice and hearing. There is no issue be¬ 
tween the United States and this plaintiff. The issue 
is solely between this plaintiff and the defendant Far¬ 
ley acting without authority. Having acted without 
authority he was not acting as an agent of the t nited 
States, and this is not a suit against the United tktates. 
In the llagood case the Supreme Court again jstated 
that the unauthorized acts of officials of a sovereign 

I 

government might be enjoined. At pages 70-71 iof the 
opinion it is stated: 

“A broad line of demarcation separates! from 
such cases as the present, in which the decrees re¬ 
quire, by affirmative official action on the part of 
the defendants, the performance of an obligation 
which belongs to the State in its political capacity, 
those in which actions at law or suits in equify are 
maintained against defendants who, while claim¬ 
ing to act as officers of the State, violate and in¬ 
vade the personal and property rights of the plain¬ 
tiffs, under color of authority, unconstitutional 
and void. Of such actions at law for redress of 
the wrong, it was said by Mr. Justice Millyr, in 
Cunningham v. Macon & Brunswick Railroad Co., 



50 


ubi sup.: ‘In those cases he is not sued as or be¬ 
cause he is the officer of the government, but as an 
individual, and the court is not ousted of .jurisdic¬ 
tion because he asserts authority as such officer. 
To make out his defence he must show that his au¬ 
thority was sufficient in law to protect him.* p. 
452. Of such cases that of United States r. Lee , 
106 1*. S. 106, is a conspicuous example, and it was 
upon this "round that tin' judgment in Poindexter 
r. (ireculmw. 114 T. S. 270, was rested. And so 
the preventive remedies of equity, by injunction, 
may be employed in similar cases to anticipate and 
prevent the threatened wrong, whore the injury 
would be irreparable, and there is no plain and 
adequate remedy at law, as was the case in Aliev 
r. Baltimore d : Ohio Railroad ("o., 114 V. S. .‘>11. 
where many such instances are cited.” 


The other cases cited by defendant below are simi¬ 
larly distinguishable on the ground that the officers 
whom the court refused to enjoin were acting in a 
constitutional manner and within the scope of their offi¬ 
cial duties. See In re At/crs. 123 U. S. 443 (1887); 
Minnesota Hifrheock. 185 l\ S. 373 (1902); Louisi¬ 
ana r. MeAdoo. 234 U. S. 627 (1914). 


IV. 


This Court May Enjoin the Threatened Imposition 
Upon This Plaintiff of Penalties Which Prevent 
it From Bidding or Contracting for the Carriage 
of the Air-Mails for a Period of Five Years. 

In its opinion the Supreme Court of the District of 
Columbia stated: 


44 * * r the court is of the opinion that inso¬ 

far as this statute. Section 3950 of the Revised 
Statutes of the United States, may impose any 



pain and penalty that matter is not properly be¬ 
fore the court because the facts allowed would 
have to show that a contract had boon sought by 
the plaintiff and refused by the Government of the 
l nited States without any justification lor other 
excuse.’ ’ 

i 

The order of defendant Farley purporting 1 to can¬ 
cel the air-mail contracts stated that the actjion was 
taken pursuant to Section ,‘>950. That sectioij specifi- 
cally requires that upon the cancellation of any con¬ 
tract pursuant to the terms of the section the contract¬ 
ing- party shall for a period of five years be forbidden 
to bid lor or to contract for the carriage of the air¬ 
mails. The imposition of the penalty is mandatory 
it the contracts are cancelled pursuant to the provi¬ 
sions of the section. Moreover it is alleged ijn para¬ 
graph 24- of the petition that: 


u : f- 


* the defendant Farley intends! to pre¬ 
vent the plaintiff from bidding on any mail con¬ 
tract or carriage for a period of five yealrs as a 
penalty for an alleged violation of Revised Stat¬ 
utes Section 3950, and that such prevention would 
be illegal and contrarv to the Const it ut Ion and 

tile 


l ve 


laws of the United States and would depi 
plaintiff of its liberty and of a valuable rijdit and 
cause it irreparable damage for which tin* plain¬ 
tiff has no adequate remedy at law. It will be 
forced to discharge its pilots, mechanics and other 
employees, since without the revenue derived from 
the said route certificates the plaintiff cannot op¬ 
erate except with irreparable damage to th<t plain¬ 
tiff and its stockholders. The purported cancella¬ 
tion of its route certificates lias caused ajid will 
continue to cause the plaintiff to be deprived of 
its property in that that property is without sub¬ 
stantial value except in connection with it|s busi¬ 
ness of transporting passengers and aijr-inail. 



52 


Sucli purported cancellation will compel the plain¬ 
tiff to abrogate many contracts, leases and obliga¬ 
tions which it has incurred, and such abrogation 
will result in irreparable injury to the plaintiff 
and many other persons. Such purported can¬ 
cellation of its route certificates has caused and 
will continue to cause damage to the plaintiff 
which will be incapable of being measured and 
adjudicated at law/’ 

This allegation is admitted for the purposes of this 

motion. That it was well founded is conclusively shown 

» 

bv the fact that in the advertisement for bids made 
under the signature of the Postmaster General of the 
United States ion the 28th dav of March, 1984, the ad- 
vertisement specifically declared that none of the com¬ 
panies whose contracts had been cancelled pursuant to 
the provisions of Section 8950 might bid for the car¬ 
riage of the air-mail. (See Exhibit A, page 62). 

The intent and purport of the allegation is that the 
defendant Farley threatens to impose the penalties of 
Section 8950 upon this plaintiff without giving it an 
opportunity to be heard.' Moreover it appears from 
the allegation that the property of this plaint iff has 
substantial value only in connection with its business 
of transporting passengers and air.-mail. A penalty 
which prevents it from attempting to secure contracts 
for the carriage of the air-mail destroys the value ot 
its properties and makes the further successful opera¬ 
tion of its business difficult if not impossible. If this 
plaintiff’ is required to wait until its bids are refused 
and the contracts have been awarded to others it will. 


i As interpreted by the defendant. Section 3950 would seem to be 
unconstitutional and void as a bill of attainder. See Cummings v. 
Missouri, 4 Wall. *J77 (1N6G): Ex Parte Garland, 4 Wall. 333 (1SGG). 


as alleged in the petition, have suffered irreparable 
damage. Consequently, it is imperative that the 
threatened action be enjoined before its consummation. 

In the leading case of Ex parte Young, supra, this 
Court specifically held that a Court of Equity had au¬ 
thority to enjoin the threatened imposition by an of¬ 
ficial of a State of heavy penalties. 

In that case it was alleged on information jand be¬ 
lief that the Attorney General, Mr. Young, wojild “in¬ 
stitute proceedings * * ' against the railw|< 


lav com¬ 


pany, 

* # * 


for the purpose of enforcing s^iid acts 

thereof. 


and the provisions and penalties 
* *” (p. 131). 

In answering the contention that to sustain! 


suit to enjoin a threatened act would draw to the lower 
Federal Courts a great flood of litigation of the same 
character, the Court stated: 


uicli a 


“Finally it is objected that the necessary result 


of upholding this suit in the Circuit Court 
to draw to the lower Federal courts a grt 


will be 
at flood 


of litigation of this character, where one jFederal 


judge would have it in his power to enjoin pro¬ 
ceedings bv state officials to enforce the legisla- 
tive acts of the State, either by criminal jor civil 
actions. To this it may be answered, in jhe first 
place, that no injunction ought to be grafted un¬ 
less in a case reasonably free from doubt. We 
think such rule is, and will be, followed by all the 
judges of the Federal courts. 

“And again, it must be remembered tin t juris¬ 
diction of this general character has, in fa let, been 
exercised by Federal courts from the time of Os¬ 
born v. United States Bank up to the present; the 
only difference in regard to the case of Osborn 
and the case in hand being that in this ejase the 
injury complained of is the threatened eonjnnence- 
ment of suits, civil or criminal to enforce the act, 



54 


instead of, as in the 0 shorn case, an actual and 
direct trespass upon or interference with tangible 
property., A bill filed to prevent the commence¬ 
ment of suits to enforce an unconstitutional act, 
under the circumstances already mentioned, is no 
new invention, as wo have already seen. The dif¬ 
ference between an actual and direct interference 
with tangible property and the enjoining of state 
officers from enforcing an unconstitutional act, is 
not of a radical nature, and does not ’extend, in 
truth, the jurisdiction of the courts over the sub¬ 
ject matter. In the case of the interference with 
property tlie person enjoined is assuming to act 
in his capacity as an official of the State, and jus¬ 
tification for his interference is claimed by reason 
of his position as a state official. Such official can¬ 
not so justify when acting under an unconstitu¬ 
tional enactment of the legislature. So. when* the 
state official, instead of diroctlv interfering with 
tangible property, is about to commence suits, 
which have for their object the enforcement of an 
act which violates the Federal (’oustitution, to the 
great and irreparable injury of the complainants, 
he is seeking the same justification from the au- 
thoritv of the State as in other cases. The sov- 

ereigntv of the State* is, in realitv, no more in- 
* • • 

volved in one case than in the other. The State 
cannot in either case impart to the official immun¬ 
ity from responsibility to the Supreme authority 
of the United State's. Se*e In re Ayers. 125 U. S. 
507. M (pp. 166-167). 


See also: Smyth r. Jams, 169 l . S. 466 (1898). 

Pennsylvania r. li es/ Virginia. 26*2 U. S. 553 (1923), 
was an original suit in the Supreme Ceiurt of the 
United States to enjoin the State of West Virginia 
from enforcing an act which the complainants alleged 
would cut off the supply of natural gas carried by pipe 
lines from West Virginia into Pennsvlvania. It was 


* 



urged on behalf of the defendant that the sjuit was 
premature in the sense that at the time of the com¬ 
mencement of the suit “the practical operation of the 
statute had not been tested, and no threatened injury 
ot serious magnitude was clearlv or convincingly 
proved, or susceptible of clear or convincing proof.” 
(page 570). In rejecting this contention th£ court 
stated: 

“The second question is whether the sui.s were 
brought prematurely. They were brought a few 
days after the West Virginia act went int<j> force. 
Xo order under it had been made* by tin* Public 
Service Commission; nor had it been tested in 
actual practice. But this does not prove t lat the 
suits were premature. ()f course they were not 
so, if it otherwise appeared that tin* act certainly 
would operate as the complainant States (appre¬ 
hended it would. One does not have to a unit the 
consummation of threatened injury to obta n pre¬ 
ventive relief. It the iitjuri / is certainly iupend¬ 
ing that is eitoitfjJi." (pp. 592-3). (Italics sup¬ 
plied). 

There is no question that threatened injury to this 
plaintiff “is certainly impending". In fact, an jnjury 
has already been inflicted by the order of the defen¬ 
dant dated the 9th day of February, 1934, 'which 
precluded it from bidding or contracting for the car¬ 
riage of the air mail. The threatened and actual im- 
position of such a penalty may be* enjoined when, as 
in this case, it results in the destruction of the plain¬ 
tiff’s property. 

Vicksburg Waterworks Co. r. Vicksburg, 185 U. S. 

v • ... * i 

05 (1902), was a suit for an injunction to restrain 
the defendant from assuming to abrogate and take 
away the contract rights of the complainant. It ap¬ 
peared that the complainant was the owner of ah ex- 



56 


elusive 30-year franchise to operate a system of water¬ 
works in the citv of Vicksburg. The citv insisting that 
the contract was invalid proposed to erect and main¬ 
tain a waterworks of its own, and to become a com¬ 
petitor of complainant. The complainants alleged that 
such acts would be violative of the 14th Amendment 
to the Constitution. In reversing the judgment of the 
Circuit Court dismissing the suit the Supreme Court 
of the l nited States pointed out that the unlawful 
threat of interference with the contract rights of the 
complainant was sufficient to warrant relief in equity. 
The Court states: 

‘‘It is further contended that the bill does not 
disclose any actual proceeding on the part of the 
city to’displace complainant's rights under the 
contract, that mere apprehension that illegal ac¬ 
tion mav be taken bv the citv cannot lie the basis 
* % • 

of enjoining such action, and that therefore the 
Circuit Court did right in dismissing the bill. We 
cannot accede to this contention. It is one often 
made in cases where bills in equity are filed to 
prevent anticipated and threatened action. But 
it is one of the most valuable features of equity 
jurisdiction, to anticipate and prevent a threat¬ 
ened injury, where the damages would be insuf¬ 
ficient or irreparable. The exercise of such jm is- 
diction is for the benefit of both parties: in dis¬ 
closing to the defendant that he is proceeding 
without warrant of law, and in protecting the com¬ 
plainant from injuries which, if indicted, would be 

wholly destructive of his rights.’’ (p. 82). 


It is also firmly established that equitable jurisdic¬ 
tion exists to restrain criminal prosecutions under un¬ 
constitutional enactments, when the prevention of such 
prosecutions is essential to the safeguarding of prop¬ 
erty. This question was considered and the cases col- 


lected in Terrace v. Thompson, 2(53 U. S. 197,| 214-215 
(1923), as follows: ! 


4 i * * * 


Equity jurisdiction will be exeticised to 
enjoin the threatened enforcement of a slate law 
which contravenes the Federal Constitution wher¬ 
ever it is essential in order effectually toj }>rotect 
property rights and the rights of personsiairailist 
injuries otherwise irremediable; and in! such a 
case a person, who as an officer of tin* State is 
clothed with the duty of enforcing its la|ws and 
who threatens and is about to commence proceed¬ 
ings, either civil or criminal, to enforce such a law 
against parties affected, may be enjoined from 
such action by a federal court of equity! Cav¬ 
anaugh v. Looney, 248 Y. S. 433, 43(5; Trua.v r. 
Raich, 239 1 . S. 33, 37, 38. See also A.lr parte 
} oung, 209 U. S. 123, 17)5, 1(52; Adams r. Tanner, 
244 F. S. 590, 592; Creene r. Louisville 


(« 


lule i'- 

ii rhan R. R. ('o., id. 499, 50(5; Home Telephone (0 

8, 293; 
3. 621; 


Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles, 227 V. S. 27 
Philadelphia Co. v. Sfimson, 223 U. S. (5( 
UV.v/cr« Union Telegraph Co. r. Andrews, 21(5 
r. S. 1(55; Dobbins r. Los Angeles. 195 V. 

241; Doris <(' Fannnn Mann fad nring Co. 
Angeles, 189 V. S. 207, 217.” 




r. 


Los 


There can be no question but that the imposijion of 
a penalty which will preclude this plaintiff frojn bid¬ 
ding or contracting for the carriage of the air mail will 
destroy its property. It is also apparent that an ac¬ 
tion in the Court of Claims could not compensate this 
plaintiff for damages resulting from the imposition of 
this penalty. In an action in the Court of Clainjs this 
plaintiff could only recover damages directly /[(‘suit¬ 
ing from a breach of existing contracts and conjd not 
recover damages resulting from its exclusion from 
bidding or contracting for the carriage of the air mail. 


58 


The cases cited clearly indicate that the jurisdiction of 
a court of equity may 1 h* invoked to enjoin the threat¬ 
ened imposition of this penalty. 

V. 

The Purported Order Issued by Defendant Farley Was 
Beyond the Scope of His Authority as Postmaster 
General. 

Defendant Farley's purported order recites that it 
is made “pursuant to the authority vested in me by 
Section 5950 of the Revised Statutes ‘ ’ * and by vir¬ 
tue of the* general powers of the Postmaster General.” 

We have shown that unless the requirement of no¬ 
tice* and hearihg is read into Seed ion .*>951) that section 
which prescribes a penalty whereby this plaintiff for 
a period of 5 years is precluded from bidding or con¬ 
tracting for the carriage of the air mail is violative of 
the* Fifth Ame*ndme*nt to the ('oustitut ion. (Supra, 
panes 14-25). The defendant Farley could derive no 
authority from such an unconstitutional statute. 
(Supra, panes 29 to 59). If notice and hearing are 
read into the section the* statute is constitutional. The 
failure of Farley to afford notice and hearing uneler 
such a statute is in express violation of the authority 
which it conferred upon him. It is therefore apparent 
that whether he purpe>rts te> act under an unconstitu¬ 
tional statute e>r in violation of a constitutional statute 
the defendant is acting without authoritv. 

Xor elo the general powers of the Postmaster Gen¬ 
eral purport to authorize the imposition of these pen¬ 
alties and the annulment of these* contracts without 
notice and hearing. For the reason stated supra at 
pages 14 to 22 any general grant of power to impose 


59 


those penalties without nolice aiul hearing* wo 


ild be 


violative of the Constitution. The defendantj could 
derive no authoritv from such a grant. 

• i 

Moreover, an examination of the statutes indicates 
that the President and not the Postmaster General is 
authorized to annul these contracts, but only upoin ade¬ 
quate notice and hearing. 

The Independent Offices Appropriations Acr ex- 
|>ressly gives to the President the power to modify 
or cancel “any contract entered into by the Pnited 
States ‘ ' for the transportation of persons and or 
things", upon specified findings of public interest or 
substantial savings to the l nited Stall's, provided, 
however, 1 hat such authoritv is not exercisable by the 
President except “upon giving sixty days' notice and 
opportunity for public hearing to the parties to such 
contract ". 

The Act further provides that in the event of such 
modification or cancellation, the President “shall de¬ 
termine just compensation therefor", and expressly 
provides for judicial review by the Court of Claims 
of the fairness of the compensation so lixed. file Act 
further appropriates specific funds for the payment 
of the compensation so fixed. 

Wliv should Congress have gone to all the trouble 
of passing this Act and empowering the President in 
such express terms, if the Postmaster General luijd the 
arbitrary power, anyway, to cancel the contractsiwitli- 
out any notice or hearing, without any finding jiased 
upon proceedings of any kind, without any provision 
for compensation, destroying all of plaintiff's rights to 
all of these things and imposing penalties ex parte'? Of 

■■ Unit oil States Public 4 Act No. 7S. 7.‘*r<l (’undress, Kxtraoridiiiarv 


Session, 1933: 11 IT. S. A. Sec. :Ma; 4S Stat. 303. (June 10, 


1933). 


i 



GO 


what benefit to the I nited States are Congressional de- 

1 V. 1 

liberations and carefully worded enactments it* tliev 

* • 

can be thus scrapped by the act of any executive of¬ 
ficer ? 

Section 396 of the Revised Statutes (a l\ S. Code 
369) setting forth the duties and general powers of 
the Postmaster General, provides that it shall he his 
duty “to superintend Generally the business of the de¬ 
partment and execute all laws relative to the Postal 
Service”. 

(’an the duty to execute the laws be stretched into a 
grant of power to violate the specific terms of the laws 
themselves, as well as the Constitution.' The Supreme 
Court has pointedly refuted defendant Farley's affirm¬ 
ative answer to the foregoing question in J*uiadext rr 
v. (irrruhnw, 114 l\ S. 370 (1SS4), at page 391 : 




Of what avail are written constitutions 
whose bills of right for the security of individual 
liberty,have been written, too often, with the blood 
of martyrs shed upon the battlefield and, the scaf¬ 
fold, if their limitations and restraints upon power 
mav be over-passed with impunity bv the verv 
agencies created and appointed to guard, defend 
and enforce them: * ' ' And how else can these 
principles of individual liberty and right be 
maintained, if, when violated, the judicial tri¬ 
bunals are forbidden to visit penalties upon indi¬ 
vidual offenders, who are the instruments of 
wrong, whenever they interpose the shield of the 
State.' The doctrine is not to be tolerated. * * *" 


VI. 

The Plaintiff Has No Adequate Remedy at Law. 

The order herein complained of purports to be based 
upon a finding that plaintiff has participated in fraudu¬ 
lent and collusive transactions. The honorable busi- 



61 


ness reputation and good-will of plaintiff ha\[e been 
painstakingly built up. They are the result of years 
of devoted labor on the part of many person^ and a 
substantial expenditure of money. They constitute 
property rights of plaintiff. Defendant Farley’s pur¬ 
ported order casts the stigma of guilt upon plaintiff 
with no prior hearing* or semblance of trial. Th|e dam¬ 
age 4 to the plaintiff resulting from the ex parte Iverdict 
of guilt is a deprivation of property which is clearly 
incapable of being measured bv monev damage. 

1 .. . * . * . . i 

Moreover it is obvious that the imposition of a pen¬ 
alty which for a period of live years will preclude this 
plaintiff from bidding or contracting* for the carriage 
of the air-mail is a wrong which cannot be measured 
in damages. 

1 i 

(See Lud/e/y. Secretary of State of Arkansas v. 
II esteru l niou l V/ ( */raCo.. 216 L . IS. 146, 
164 (1010). 

CONCLUSION. 

For the reasons stated and on the authoritv of the 
cases cited it is respectfully submitted that thel .judg¬ 
ments of the Supreme Court of the District of (jolum- 
bia dismissing these complaints should be reversed. 

Respectfully submitted, 

I 

William J. Donovan, 
Attorney for Plaintiff , 

1010 Shoreham Building, 
Washington, D. C. 

Frederick W. Jackson, 

Call Ki.bijidce Newton. 

Ralstoxe R. Irvine, 

Of Counsel. 




62 


March 28, ITU. 


EXHIBIT A. 

ADVERTISEMENT FOR TEMPORARY AIR MAIL 

SERVICE. 

1. Sealed proposals will l>e received at the ollice of 

the Second Assistant Postmaster General until.. 

for temporarily carrying air mail on tin* following de¬ 
scribed route and on the most advantageous schedules: 


(Schedules to be filled in.) 


for a period of three months from the date of com¬ 
mencement of service hereunder, to be extended for 
two periods of not more than three months each, or 
portions thereof, at the option of the Postmaster den- 
era] at a rate not greater than that paid for the first 
three-months period. 

The rate of pay shall be based on definite weight 
spaces per airplane mile, one cubic foot beiuc; com¬ 
puted as the equivalent of nine pounds of air mail. 

The pay therefore shall not exceed the rate of. 

cents per airplane mile, and will be based upon the 
average mail load carried, per mile, over the route dur¬ 
ing the month. There shall be provided on this route 

.cubic feet of air mail space and the Postmaster 

General may require additional space, if needed, to be 
paid for at the same rate per cubic foot. 'The maxi¬ 
mum rate of pay over this route shall not, in any event, 
exceed the i sum of.cents per airplane mile. 


2. The schedules to be authorized will require con¬ 
tinuous trips or as continuous as may be practicable to 
be operated between terminal points and on such fre¬ 
quency as deemed advisable. 







63 


3. The department reserves the right to mo(lifv or 
change the schedule and frequency thereof; to dispatch 
mail on any plane of the contractor flown o\jer tlie 
route; and to require night flying, if the needsj of tlie 
service demand and operating conditions will permit. 

4. The successful bidder must he prepared tp com¬ 
mence service not later than thirty days frejm the 
award of contract. 

5. (a) This advertisement is issued pursuant |to au¬ 
thority for a temporary service as contained in t nited 
States code title 31), Section 434, which provides: 

“ * * * When a new route shall be established 
or new service required, or when, from an\j other 
cause, there shall not be a contractor legally 
bound or required to perform such service, the 
Postmaster General may make a temporary con¬ 
tract for earrving mail on such route without ad- 
vertisement for such period as may be nece|ssarv 

not in anv case exceeding one vear, until tl 
• « 

vice shall have commenced under a contract 


ic ser- 
made 

according to law: ' ‘ '. The Postmaster General 
shall not employ temporary service on any route 
at a higher price than that paid to the contractor 
who shall have performed the service during the 
last preceding contract term * * j 

i 

(b) Xo bids shall be considered or received from 
any company which previously had a contract f<j>r the 
carriage of air mail and whose contract was annulled 
under Revised Statutes, Section 3950, as all such con¬ 
cerns are disqualified by law to contract for carrying 
the mail for five vears after the annulment of the con- 

* i 

tract. Section 3950, Revised Statutes, reads as fol¬ 
lows : 



64 


“Xo contract for carrying the mail shall be 
made with any person who has entered, or pro¬ 
posed to enter, into any combination to prevent 
the making of anv bid for carrying the mail, or 
who has, made any agreement, or given or per¬ 
formed, or promised to give or perform, any con¬ 
sideration whatever to induce any other person 
not to bid for any such contract; and if any per¬ 
son so offending is a contractor for carrying the 
mail, his contract may be annulled: and for the 
first offense the person so offending shall lu* dis¬ 
qualified ito contract for carrying the mail for live 
years, and for tin* second oltense >hall bo forever 
disqualified. (Section 462, Title ffi), l . S. (’ode.) 

(c) In case the* bidder shall be a corporation or as¬ 
sociation, such bidder shall submit with its bid an affi¬ 
davit, executed by competent authority, that it has 
no officer or director who has heretofore entered, or 
proposed to enter into any combination to prevent the 
making of anv bid for carrying the mail, or who has 
made any agreement, or given or performed, or prom¬ 
ised to given or perform, any consideration whatever 
to induce anv other person not 1<> bid for anv such con- 
tract. Such bidder shall be required to furnish with 
its bid a statement showing the full and complete list 
of its officers and directors. 

(d) All bidders shall comply with the provisions of 
the Executive order of the President of the United 
States, Xo. 6,646, dated March 14, 1664. paragraph 1 
(a), (b), (c) and (d), which read as follows: 

“1. (a) All invitations to bidders hereafter pro¬ 
mulgated bv or in behalf of anv executive depart- 
ment or independent establishment or other 

agency or instrumentality of the United States 
• • 

including government-owned and government-con¬ 
trolled corporations (all of the foregoing be ng 



65 


hereinafter described as agencies of the jUnited 
States), shall contain a provision to the effect that 
no bid will be considered unless it includes or is 
accompanied by a certificate duly executed by the 
bidder stating that the bidder is complying with 
and will continue to comply with each approved 
code of fair competition to which he is subject, 
and if engaged in anv trade or industrv for which 
there is no approved code of fair competition, 
then stating that as to such trade or industry he 
has become a parly to and is complying wi|b and 
will continue to comply with an agreemen 
the President under Section 4(a) of the X: 
Industrial Recovery Act. 

“(b) Xo bid which does not comply wijh the 
foregoing requirements shall be considered lor ac¬ 
cepted. j 

“(c) All contracts and purchase orders alithor- 

_ i* i n 


with 
I ional 


ized bv anv agenev of the United States sha 


tain a provision to the effect that tlu* party or 


parties awarded any such contract or pm 


1 con- 


chase 


order shall comply with each approved cade of 
fair competition to which it is subject, and lif en¬ 
gaged in anv trade or industrv for which there is 

as to 
with 
nited 
it ract 


no approved code of fair competition, then, 
such trade or industry, with an agreement 
the President as aforesaid: and that the l 
States shall have the right to cancel anv coi 
for failure to comply with such provision and 
make open market purchases or have the work 
called for by the contract otherwise performed at 
the expense of the contractor. 

“(d) Xo agency of the United Slates and no 
government contractor or supplier shall hereafter 
accept or purchase for the performance of any 
contract or purchase, order, or enter into any sub¬ 
contracts for any articles, materials, or supplies, 
in whole or in part produced or furnished by any 
person who shall not have certified that he isicom- 
plying with and will continue to comply withleach 



code of fair competition which relates to such ar¬ 
ticles, materials or supplies, or, in case there is 
no approved code for the whole or any portion 
thereof, then, to that extent, with an agreement 
with the President as aforesaid. 


6. A bidder must submit evidence with the bid indi¬ 
cating that he can meet the requirements of the De¬ 
partment of (’omnierce with reference to a certificate 
of authority to operate this route. 

7. The character of equipment to be employed and 
maintained on this route, with reference to speed, load 
capacity and safety features and safety devices, shall 
he such as are approved by the Postmaster (Jeneral, 
who will consult with the Secretary of (onimerce, and 
in this instance 1 as follows: 

(Data to He Filled In.) 

S. Bidders will he required to state the number of 
planes it is proposed to provide* for carrying the mails 
on the route (including the number in reserve): de¬ 
scription of planes, shewing elate when built, pay load, 
number of motors, horsepower, spe*ed. cruising radius, 
load capacitv, safetv features and safetv devices. 

1). Mail compartments in all planes are te> he* made 
fireproof to the satisfaction of the* Postoffice Depart¬ 
ment. 

10. Bidders will he* requireel to furnish a biel bond 
in the sum of S.. executed by a se¬ 

curity company which has complieel with the provisions 
of the acts approve*el Aug. 13, 1S04, and March 23, 1010. 
(A list of such surety companies may be found on 
page 65 of the Official Postal Guide for July, 1033, a 






67 


copy of which is furnished cacli postmaster.) jLiberty 


bonds or Treasury notes may also he accepte<jl. 


11. When a bid is signed by an incorporated com¬ 
pany it should be accompanied by evidence of! the au¬ 
thority of the person signing the bid so to sign on be¬ 
half of the company. Kach bid may be a certified copy 
of the proceedings pursuant to which the person was 
elected or appointed an officer or agent of the company 
and that part of the by-laws showing his authority as 
such officer or agent to sign the bid: or a certified copy 
of a resolution of the board of directors or stockholders 
conferring such authority upon him. 


i 

Ilk A proposal altered in any of its essential terms 
cannot be considered in competition with bids sub¬ 
mitted in proper form. 


Id. The accepted bidder shall execute the 'formal 
contract prescribed by the department covering ser¬ 
vice advertised, together with a performance bond, in 

the sum of . with good and sufficient 

sureties in an amount acceptable to the Postjnaster 
(Jeneral and file such contract within ten days* from 
date of acceptance of the proposal. 


14. If the accepted bidder fails to file a properly 
executed formal contract and bond for tlie service in 
the department within ten days from the date of ac- 
eeptance of the bid, or, having executed the contract, 
fails to provide the service required, he may |>e de¬ 
clared a failing bidder or contractor and proceedings 
taken according to law. and the* amount of bis bi<| bond 
shall be forefeited to the l nited States as liquidated 


damages. 


i 



1.'). Bidders and their sureties are urged to acquaint 
themselves fullv witli the laws of Gongress relating to 
contracts for carrying the mails and to familiarize 
themselves with requirements set forth in this adver¬ 
tisement and with the service to be performed, before 

they assume anv liability as bidders or sureties, so as 
* • • 

to prevent misapprehension or cause for complaint 
thereafter. 

1(). Bids should be forwarded in time to reach the 
office of the Second Assistant Postmaster General not 
later than 1 2 noon on dale specified. Bids received 
after that time will not be considered in competion with 
bids received within the prescribed time. 

17. Change in ownership or letting a subcontract 
for service on all or any part of route without prior 
approval by the Postmaster General will be cause for 
cancellation by tlie* PostmaMer General, as provided by 
law. 


18. Contractors on such air mail routes may also 
carry packages, or passengers, at rates initiated by the 
contractors. However, contractors must give prefer¬ 
ence on all trios to the air mail offered for transport. 


19. Pilots and other employes handling mails of 
such contractor shall be required to subscribe to the 
usual government oath of office. 


*20. Delav to mail carried bv airmail contractors, 
brought about wholly by act of God, will not be charge¬ 
able to the contractor, nor will such delay be consid¬ 
ered as cause for termination of contract bv the Post- 
office Department. 


21. Delavs brought about bv acts of the contractors 
• » • 

may result in fine and deductions, as provided by law. 



69 


22. The successful bidder may be required |to fur¬ 
nish the department sufficient space in his hangars or 
buildings at tlie various fields for the proper handling* 

and distribution of the mail. j 

i 

-3. The location of the landing fields, at authorized 
stop ]>oints. to be provided by contractors for'use in 
connection with such contract service must meet with 
the approval of the Post office Department. 

24. Such beacons, emergency landing fields] radio 
stations, other means of communication, and! other 
aids to navigation as may be necessary for the proper 
navigating of aircraft of contractors must be provided 
for by the contractors unless provided by such govern¬ 
ment department as may be authorized to do so. 

2b. Accredited officials of the Postoffice Depart¬ 
ment must be permitted free access to contractor’s 
fields, flying equipment, &e., for purposes of inspection, 
at all times. 

26. All contractors on air mail contract routes are 
subject to, and must bo guided bv, postal laws and 
regulations. 

27. Because the Postmaster General is vested with 

sole authority to make temporary contracts jinder 
I’nited States (’ode. Title 39, Sec. 434, above quoted, all 
questions, arising as to tiie bona fide compliance of any 
bidders with anv of the foregoing conditions, including 
the accuracy of affidavits required to be filed, shall be 
determined by the Postmaster General, whose decision 
shall be final. | 

28. The Post office Department reserves the right to 
reject any or all bids. 



70 


Bids should bo s 
“airplane proposj 
Assistant Postma 
Washington. I). ( 


Department. 


(nit in sealed envelopes, superscribed 
ds," and addressed to the “Second 
ster (lonernl, Postoffice Department, 
and will 1 h* opened publielv on 
. . at l’J o'clock noon at the Post office 

I > ( )STM AST HR ( i RXEKAL. 




71 


EXHIBIT B. 


TEXT (>F THE AXXOl'XCEM EXT MADE MARCH 
US. ITM. 15V POSTMASTER CEXERAll EAR- 
LEV WITH REFERHAVE TO TEMPORARY 
AIR MAIL SERVICE. TOC ETHER WITH 
THE ROETES To RE SERWK'EI). 

Temporary coin rads with commercial aviation com- 
panics for transporting air mail will Ik* made j within 
t lie next tliree weeks. 

Advert is eluents for bids will In* sent out |by the 

PostofKce Department within the next (lav or tivo and 

• . ‘ , . * 
will call lor bids to Ik* submitted within a period of 

fifteen days. Successful bidders will be required to 

start operations within thirty days after obtaining 

cont ract s. 

f Fho temporary contracts will be math* for a period 
of three months with the* right of the Post office Depart¬ 
ment to extend such contracts for one or two three- 
month periods or such portion of such extended pe¬ 
riods as tin* Postmaster General may doom advisable. 

Bids will be invited under the existing lawjwhich 
authorizes the Postmaster General to make* tempo¬ 
rary contracts for carrying the mails. The advertise¬ 
ment will specify the routes upon which bids will be 
asked and, under the law, the bidders will not be per¬ 
mitted to bid a higher rate than was beiiii>* paid for air 
mail service over the routes when the air mail con¬ 
tracts were canceled. 

Each bid must be accompanied by a certificate jsliow- 
ing that tin* bidder is complying with the executive or¬ 
der of the President with reference to tin* XPA code 
applying to his industry. 



72 


Xo air mail company whose contract has hoen an¬ 
nulled for fraud and collusion may hid for a temporary 
contract and no company will he eligible to hid which 
lias as any of its officers or directors any person wlio 
has entered into or proposed to enter into any com¬ 
bination to prevent the making of competitive bids for 

carrying the.mails, or who has made anv agreement, or 
• » * ^ 

given or performed, or promised to give or perform, 
any consideration whatever to induce any other per¬ 
son not to hid for any other mail contract. 

Riddels will he required to comply with the require¬ 
ments of the Department of ('ommerce with reference 
to certificates of authority to operate airplanes, and 
the Postmaster General, in consultation with the Sec¬ 
retary of (’ommerce. will specify the speed, the load 
capacity and the safety devices and safety appliances 
of airplano to he used in carrying the mails. 

A satisfactory hid-hond will he reouired of all hid- 

• * 

ders and successful bidders will he* required to give a 
satisfactory performance bond. 

It is contemplated that <’engross will very shortly 
pass a permanent air mail law and when this is done 
the Postoffice Department will advertise for bids for 
permanent contracts*, such contracts to become effec¬ 
tive upon the expiration of the temporary contracts. 

The Postoffice Department will first ask bids for 
temporary service over the following routes: 

Newark. X. J., via Cleveland, Ohio; Toledo. Ohio; 
Chicago, Ill.; Moline. 111.: Iowa City. Iowa: Dos 
Moines, Iowa: Omaha. Xeh.: Lincoln, Xeh.; Grand 

Island, Xeb. : North Platte, Xeh.: Chevenne, Wvo.; 

• • 

Denver, Col.: Pock Springs, Wyo.: Salt Lake City, 
Utah: Klko, New: Peno. Xev.; Sacramento, Calif.; 
San Francisco. Calif., to Oakland, Calif.—approxi¬ 
mately 2,900 miles. 


I 

Newark, X. J,, via Philadelphia, Harrisburg, Pa.; 
Pittsburgh, Pa.: Columbus, Ohio; Indianapolis, Ind.; 
Terre Haute, Ind.; St. Louis, Mo.; Kansas Cijty, Mo.; 
Wichita, Ivan.: Amarillo, Texas; Albuquerque!, X. M.; 
M inslow, Ariz., to Los Angeles, Cal.—approximately 
2,600 miles. 

i 

Newark, X. J.; Philadelphia, Pa.; Baltimore, Md.; 
'Washington, l). C.: Richmond, Va.; Raleigh, X. C.; 
Florence, S. C.; Charleston, S. C.; Savannah, Ga.; 
Jacksonville, Fla.: Daytona Leach, Fla., to | Miami, 
Fla.—approximately 1,200 miles. 

Seattle, via Tacoma, Wash.; Portland, Ore,; Med¬ 
ford, Ore.: Sacramento, Calil*.; Oakland, Calif.; San 
Francisco, Calif.: Fresno, Calif.; Bakersfield, Calif.; 
Los Angeles, Calif., to San Diego, Calif.—approxi¬ 
mately 1,224 miles. 

Newark, X. J.: Philadelphia, Pa.; Washington, 
D. C.; Kiclnnond, Va.; Greensboro, X. C.: Charlotte, 
X. C.; Spartanburg, S. C.: Greenville, S. C.; Atlanta, 
Ga.; Birmingham, Ala.: Montgomery, Ala.: Mobile, 
Ala., to New Orleans. La.—approximately 1,300 miles. 

Washington, 1). (’., via Pittsburgh, Pa.: Akron, 
Ohio; Cleveland, Ohio, to Detroit, Mich.—approxi- 
matelv 450 miles. 

Boston via Springfield, Mass.; Albany, X. V. :j Utica, 
X. V.; Syracuse, X. V.; Rochester, X. \ Buffalo, 
X. Y.; Cleveland, Ohio: Columbus, Ohio; Cincinnati, 
Ohio; Louisville, Ivy.; Nashville, Tenn.; Memphis, 
Tenn.; Little Rock, Ark.; Texarkana, Ark.; Dallas, 
Texas, to Fort Worth, Texas—approximately 1,750 
miles. 

Chicago, Ill., via Milwaukee, Wis.; Madison, j Wis.; 
Rochester, Minn.; Minneapolis, Minn.; St. Paul, \ 


Fargo, X. I).; Grand Forks, X. I)., to Pembina, 
—approximately 780 miles. 


linn.; 
X. I). 


74 


Chicago, III., via Indianapolis. Iml.: Louisville, Ivy.; 
Nashville, Trim.: ( hattanooua, l c*i 111 .: Atlanta, (la.; 
Macon, (la., to .Jacksonville. Fla.- approximately 7(10 
miles. 

Chicago, Ill., via Kansas v'ity. Mo.; Wichita, Ivans.; 
Ponca (’ity. Okia.: Tulsa, Okla.: Oklahoma City, Ok- 
la.; Fort Worth, Texas, to Dallas, Texas—approxi¬ 
mately Pot), miles. 

Amarillo, Texas, via Wichita Falls, Texas; Fort 
Worth, Texas; Waco, Texas; Austin, Texas; Houston, 
Texas; (lalwston, Texas; Sail Antonio. Texas; Cor¬ 
pus Fhristi. Texas, to Prownsville, Texas—approxi¬ 
mately 1,0(10 miles. 

Salt Lake ( ity. I tali, via Poise, Idaho; Pendleton, 
Ore.; Pasco, Wash.: Spokane, Wash.: Portland. Ore.: 
Tacoma, to Seattle, W ash.— -approximately S0O miles. 

Salt Lake City. I tali, via Las \ enas. New; Los An- 
i»-eles. Calif., to Sail I)ie t n - o, Calif.—approximately 780 
miles. 

Salt Lake City. Ftah, via O.irden, Ctali: Pocatello. 
Idaho; Putte, Mont.: Helena, Mont., to Croat Falls, 
Mont.—approximately 7)17 miles. 

Poston, via Hartford, Conn., to Newark, X. J.— 
approximately *J()0 miles. 

Additional temporary service will be considered 
later. 






mc.y ax, 

^pelx^nts " J; -- 


Jj ABIES' A.7IFABXEY, 


$qm ■ >0?mME • co csr iof^teb :bistrivt. ; c 


’■"M; : W/ ■■'.}[ : "i. ; v- '■■• ';:•’^rEcESSLl^^ ' 

; 'jy V f 'r : J; : 

;-; j. /••:-•;,- .:;■■■ 

, ''abH^..wJ:ix±EL^.||^ 

t ? •$%&& ‘Mt&meti; ;: - ; 

■ :^ - i|J: ; .; l. : '-y'$£\4$ ,./,.v % •.:' [£ ■ -■>•' \X :V .^',>Mtomeyi tor 'Appellee. 
CAj % JUSTINfe :•;=■;:Tv S •: 

K-£jjj0fee§w ■ $■ v; ^g 

‘ r'H? Ld.iior4.ey, 'Department 


$ Justice,. o'f -Cotinsei 


87,6: 

>88. 

/« 

289.-:6s 

iXfJill 

/ *• *. - rT\, r 







S|R| 

|n| 

Mfepnff 

T «1M 3 

Kill 

|gm 

Emit 

XfiTSMBH 
















INDEX 


Statement of facts_ 

Opinion of the court below_ 

Statutory provisions involved_ j 

Questions presented_ 

Argument- - 

I. These are suits against the United States_ 

II. Appellants have :i plain, adequate, and complete rem¬ 
edy at law. namely, in the Court of Claims, for 

alleged breach of contract_ 

III. The appellee exercised judgment and discretion in a 
matter within the scope of his authority and part 
of his official duties when he annulled appellants’ i 


contracts 


IV. The cases cited by appellants are inappl: 

instant cases_ 

V. The penalty myth_ 

VI. Due process is not involved when* a 
annulled--- 


cable to 


contract 



is 


Pas* 

1 

0 

7 

7 

8 
s 


23 


25 


29 

30 

34 


Conclusion 

Appendix.. 


CITATIONS 

Cases: 

Adkins v. Children'* Hospital , 201 V. S. 525. 547_ 

Belknap x. Schild (1890). 101 V. S. 10_ 

Croaker x. United States, 240 l\ S. 74. 81_ 

Cummins v. Burleson. 40 App. D. C. 500_ 

K.r parti' You up, 2<>9 l\ S. 125_ 

Cold ben/ v. Daniels, 231 l\ S. 219_ 17, 

Coltra v. Weeks, 271 l\ S. 530_ 

Creenhoir v. Poindexter. 114 U. S. 270_ 

Ha pood v. Sot hern. 117 V. S. 52_10. 

Hammer v. Da pen hart. 247 U. S. 251_ 

In re Ayers. 123 V. S. 443_10.19,20, 

In re Debs, 158 l\ S. 564. 5S3_ 

International Postal Supply Co. v. Bruce, 194 U. S. 001_ 

Lepke v. Lederer , 259 U. S. 557_ 

Lewi* v. United States, 279 U. S. 63, 73 
93009—34-1 i 


35 


94—41 


34 

1 | 1 . 12 
20 
34 
I 29 
18, 34 

I * 

29 
19,20 
29 
2lj, 22 
18,19 

I 12 

29 
27 



























II 


Cases—Continued. Page 

Louisiana v. McAdoo, 234 U. S. 027_ 9,10 

I.ynrh v. United States, 292 U. S. 571_ 35 

Manila Investment Co. v. Trammell, 2.39 U. S. 31_ 34 

McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 310_ 23 

Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373_ 8,9 

Morrison v. Wo/’A;, 200 l\ S. 481, 480_j_ 30 

Philadelphia Co. v. Stimson, 223 1*. S. 005___13.10.29 

Headiny steel Casting Co. v. United States , 208 U. S. ISO_ 32 

/V* /'. A*. Co. v. /V//Z. 259 l\ S. 197_ 29 

School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnunity. 187 U. 8. ‘94. 10S_ 29 

Searight v. Stokes. 3 How. 151_ 18 

Transcontinental 6t Western Air, Ine., v. Harley, Postmaster 

(icncral. et al., 71 Fed. (2d) 288_ 22 

United States v. Adams, 7 Wall. 403, 477_ 20 

United States v. Lee. 100 U. S. 190_ 29 

United States v. Tin gey, 5 Pet. 115_ 32 


Wells v. Roper, 240 l\ S. 335_ 13,14. 15.10, 22, 24. 20. 28 


Statutes: 

Constitution, Art. I, Sec. 8_23,30 

Revised Statutes, Sec. 390 (5 U. S. C. 309)___24,30 

Revised Statutes, Sec. 3950 ( 39 U. S. C. 4.32)_ 4.5.20.28.30,34,30 
Air Mail Act approved Feb. 2. 1925, Sec. 4, c. 128, 43 Stat. 

805 (39 U. S. C. 404)_ 3,37 


Act approved June 3, 1920, c. 400, 44 Stat. 092- 37,38 

Kelly Act, approved May 17, 1928, Sec. 0, c. »K)3. 45 Stat. 

594_3. 38.39 

Watres Act, approved April 29, 1930, Secs. 1 and 2, c. 223, 

40 Stat. 259 (39 U. S. <\ 404 and 405c)_ 3,39.40.41 

Act approved June 12, 1934, Sec. S (Public, No. 308, 73d 














I 

i 


In the United States Court of Appeals 
for the District of Columbia 

April Term, 1934 j 

No. 6287 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, 

appellant 

No. 6288 

National Air Transport, Inc, a Corporation, 

appellant 

No. 6289 

| 

Pacific Air Transport, a Corporation, appellant 

7 

No. 6290 

Varney Air Lines, Inc., a Corporation, et al., 

appellants 

v. 

James A. Farley’, an Individual, appellee 

— 

brief for appellee 

statement of facts 

These are appeals from identical decrees entped 
on June 6, 1934, sustaining motions of appellee to 
• dismiss the respective hills of complaint, and dis- 



9 

— 


missing the bills of complaint. The motions to dis¬ 
miss were identical in each case. Inasmuch as ap¬ 
pellants have elected to file one brief in these four 
appeals, the appellee adopts the same expeditious 
procedure i and files this, his brief, in these four 
appeals. 

While the facts alleged in each bill of complaint 
differ in respect to the contracts involved, they are 
sufficiently identical in respect to the legal questions 
raised to permit a statement of the facts in one case 
only, which was the procedure adopted by appellee 
in the court below, and is the procedure adopted by 
appellants in this court. 

The pertinent, ultimate facts alleged in the bill of 
complaint in the case selected by appellants 1 are as 
follows: 

Appellant brings his suit against James A. Far- 
lev, the Postmaster General of the United States, 

%> 7 / 

individually (R. 2). 

Appellant is a Delaware corporation. It is au¬ 
thorized to engage in commerce in the carriage of 

o o o 

passengers, freight, and mail by air (R. 2). Ap¬ 
pellee Farley is, and since March 4, 1933, has been, 
the Postmaster General of the United States 
(R.2). 

On November 7, 1925, the then Postmaster Gen¬ 
eral awarded a contract for the earrving of mail bv 
air over route known as “AM 3 ,? to the appellant. 

1 National Air Transport, Inc., v. James A. Farley. No. 

62S8. 



3 


On November 6, 1929, this contract was extended 
for six months (R. 3). 

On April 2, 1927, the then Postmaster General 
awarded a contract for the carrying of mail over 
Route AM 17 to appellant (R. 4). 

Performance under these contracts began jday 

and 
nans 
aws 


1 


12. 192G. and September 1, 1927, respectively, 
appellant has satisfactorily complied with the tc 
and conditions of such contracts, as well as the 
of the United States and rules of the Post Office 
Department (R. 4. 5). 

For inanv years it has been the policv of the 

United States and the Post Office Department; to 

foster commercial aviation; and to carry out this 

* 

policy it has been provided that air mail shall be 
carried by commercial air-transport companies. 
To establish an efficient air-mail service and foster 
commercial aviation Congress has passed the so- 
called Air Mail Act, the Kelly Act, and the Watjres 
Act, enacted respectively, in 1925, 1928, and 1930 

_ " # i 

(R. 5, 6). These Acts are set forth in full in the 
appendix annexed hereto. 

On May 3, 1930, relying on the Watres Act, tjp- 
pellant offered to surrender its contract for Route 
AM 3, in accordance with said Act, and the Post¬ 
master General accepted the surrender thereof, 
and issued to appellant in substitution therefor 
Route Certificate AM 3 under said Act (R. 7). 
Although appellants in their bills of complaint tafce 
the position that such route certificates are not coti- 



4 


tracts (R. 16), in their brief they not only concede 
that thev are contracts, but base their contentions 
on such basis; and indeed they are in legal effect 
contracts^ containing terms, conditions, and the 
usual incidents of contracts, and are signed by the 
Postmaster General and accepted by the appellants. 

On October 22, 1930, relying on the same Act, 
appellant offered to surrender its contract for 
Route AM 17, in accordance with said Act, and the 
then Postmaster General accepted the surrender 
thereof and issued to appellant in substitution 
therefor Route Certificate AM 17 (R 8). 

Appellant entered into the performance of its 
duties under these certificates, and has performed 
all the terms thereof, and has violated no law, rule, 
or order of the United States or of the Post Office 
Department (R. 9). 

On July 15, 1931, each of the appellants entered 
into a contract with the United Air Lines, Inc., 
under which the United Air Lines was to serve as a 
coordinating agency for appellants’ business (R. 
9, 10). 


On February 9. 1934, without giving notice or 
opportunity for hearing, appellee, purporting to 
act in his official capacity, but in reality acting indi¬ 
vidually, arbitrarily, capriciously, and without 
legal authority, issued an order that, pursuant to 
the authority yested in him by Section 3950, Re- 
vised Statutes (39 U. S. C., Section 432), and by 
virtue of the general powers of the Postmaster 



5 


General, certain air-mail contracts (including, those 
of appellant) “be and they are hereby annulled, 
effective February 19,1934” (R, 11,12). | 

On February 10, 1934, appellant received from 
appellee a telegram notifying appellant that ap¬ 
pellee had entered the order above referred to, and 
instructing appellant to receive no mail foi trans¬ 
portation thereafter that could not reach its des¬ 
tination with the effective date of the order (Rj. 13). 

Since February 19, 1934, appellant has received 
no mail for transportation, as provided in Route 
Certificates AM 3 and AM 17 (R. 13). 

Since Februarv 9, 1934, appellant has tiled! with 
the Postmaster General its protest, against hjs ac¬ 
tion in declaring Route Certificates AM 
AM 17 annulled, and has notified the Postm! 
General that it was then, and at all times has 
ready, willing, and able to comply with the tjerms 
and conditions of said Route Certificates (R. 13). 
Appellant also alleges, upon information an 
lief, that appellee intends to prevent appellant 
bidding on any mail contract for a period of five 
years, as a penalty for an alleged violation of Sec¬ 
tion 3950, R. S., and that appellee's acts have cifused 
damage to appellant which will be incapable of 
being measured and adjudicated at law (R. 17). 

The appellant prays for an injunction that ap¬ 
pellee be restrained from enforcing the ord^r of 
February 9, 1934; that he be commanded to reyoke 
this order; that he be restrained from imposing 


and 


aster 

been 


1 be- 
from 




6 


any penalty by reason of this order; and that ap¬ 
pellant have judgment against him for damages 
(R. 18). 

Appellee moved to dismiss the lulls of complaint 
on the grounds that (1) the bill does not state a 
good cause of action; (2) this suit is virtually one 
against the United States; (2) the plaintiff has a 
plain, adequate, and complete remedy at law in the 
Court of Claims for alleged breach of conlract; 
(4) the suit seeks to control the official acts of the 
Postmaster General, which acts are within the 
scope of lii& authority and part of his official duties, 
and involve the exercise of judgment and discretion 
in respect of matters submitted to his care; and for 
other reasons apparent of record (R. 55, 56). 


OPINION OF THE COURT BELOW 

The praecipe designates the opinion of the 
court below, but inasmuch as it was delivered orally 
from the bench, it is not included in the record. 
The opinion below is as follows: 

The Court will sustain the motion to dis¬ 
miss' in each of these four cases, on the 
ground, first, that the suits are essentially 
suits against the United States Government; 
second, that tliev involve the handling of the 
mails, and therefore involve the property of 
the United States, and that the plaintiffs, if 
they have been damaged, have a remedy by 
suit in the Court of Claims. 



The Court does not consider that there has 

been anv act done which violates the due 
%/ 

process of law clause in the Constitution; 
and, finally, the Court is of opinion that in¬ 
sofar as this statute. Section 3950 of the Re¬ 
vised Statutes of the United States, may 
impose any pains and penalties, that matter 
is not properly before the Court because the 
facts alleged would have to show that |a con¬ 
tract had been sought by the plaintiT and 
refused by the Government of the Ignited 
States, without any justification or other 
excuse. 

I will sign orders sustaining the motions 
to dismiss. 

STATUTORY PROVISIONS INVOLVED 

The statutory provisions involved are anjnexed 
hereto as an appendix. 

QUESTIONS PRESENTED 

I 

1. Whether these suits are in effect suits against 
the United States, the object of which is specific 
performance of a contract to carry air mail, and 
therefore cannot be maintained. 

2. Whether the appellants have a plain, j ade¬ 
quate. and complete remedy at law in the Coiirt of 
Claims for alleged breach of contract. 

3. Whether the courts will control the exercise 
of appellee’s judgment and discretion in matters 
within the scope of his authority and part of his 
official duties. 


93009—34 


2 



8 


ARGUMENT 

I 


These are suits against the United States 


V/hile these suits are nominally against Farley, 
ail individual, the bills of complaint concede that 
he is, and at the time of the acts complained of was, 
Postmaster General of the United States. The acts 
complained of are the annulment of the air-mail 
contracts of appellants, and the alleged threat to 
prevent appellants from bidding in the future or 
“contracting” which is the language of the statute. 
These acts derive their substance only by virtue of 
the fact that Farlev is Postmaster General. Tliev 


are acts in connection with the administration of 
the Post Office Department. Farley has no indi¬ 
vidual interest in the annulment of the contracts 
or in future contracts of appellants. 

The question of whether the United States is a 
party to a controversy is determined by the effect 
of the decree which can be entered, and not by the 
nominal party on the record. And appellants are 
in error when they state as a premise to their 
argument that the question of whether a suit is 
one against the United States is simply a matter 
of “agency”, i. e., whether the officer is “authorized 
to do the act.” 

This question has been before this Court and the 
Supreme Court on many occasions. The basic case 
so far as the United States is concerned is Minne- 



9 


i 

sot a v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, where the State of 
Minnesota brought an original suit in the Supreme 
Court of the United States to enjoin the Interior 
Department officials from selling any of Sections 
16 and 36 of the townships in that Stat<^. The 
Court held that this was a suit against the |United 
States in the following language: 

Now, the legal title to these lands is in the 
United States. The officers named as de¬ 
fendants have no interest in the lands or 
the proceeds thereof. The United States is 
proposing to sell them. This suit seeks to 
restrain the United States from such sale, 
to divest the Government of its title and vest 
it in the state. The United States is| there¬ 
fore the real party affected by the ju4gment 
and against which in fact it will operate, and 
the officers have no pecuniary interestj in the 
matter. If whether a suit is one against a 
state is to be determined not by the tact of 
the party named as defendant on the Record 
but by the result of the judgment or decree 
which may be entered, the same rule! must 
apply to the United States. The question 
whether the United States is a party to a 
controversy is not determined by the merely 
nominal party on the record but by the 
question of the effect of the judgment or 
decree which can be entered. i 

I 

A later case is Louisiana v. McAdoo, 234 jU. S. 
627, which was also an original suit brought in the 
Supreme Court to enjoin the Secretary of the 



10 


Treasury from admitting imports of Cuban sugar 
except at a certain rate of duty. The Court held: 


That the United States is not named on 
the record as a party is true. But the ques¬ 
tion whether it is in legal effect a party to 
the controversy is not always determined 
by the fact that it is not named as a party 
on the record, but by the effect of the judg¬ 
ment or decree which can here be rendered. 


Minnesota v. Hitchcock, 185 U. S. 373, 3S7; 
Kansas v. United States , supra (204 U. S. 
331.333). * * * 

* * * Obviously such suits to review 

the official action of the Secretary of the 

•/ 


Treasury in the exercise of his judgment as 


to the rate which should be exacted under his 
construction of the Tariff Acts would op¬ 
erate to disturb the whole revenue system 

* 

of tlie Government and affect the revenues 
which arise therefrom. Such suits would ob¬ 


viously, in effect, be suits against the United 
States. New York Guaranty Co. v. Steele, 
134 U. S. 230; Louisiana v. Jumel, 107 U. S. 
711: Hopkins v. Clem son College, 221 U. S. 
636. 642 (pp. 629, 632). 


To the same effect in respect to the States is the 
holding of the court in Ilagood v. Sothern, 117 
U. S. 52. and In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 443, hereinafter 
discussed. 


What then would be the result or effect of a 
decree issued in these cases? The effect would be 
either an injunction against the United States to 
prevent it from exercising its right and the right 


11 


of every party to a contract to annul or rescind the 
same, or it would be a decree to compel the specific 
performance of a contract by the United ^tates. 
The latter is a more accurate statement of the effect 

i 

of such a decree, but in either case it would be a 
suit against the United States and cannot be main¬ 
tained for such purposes. 

That the United States is beyond the reach of the 

* 

injunctive process has long been settled!. In 
Belknap v. SchiJd (189(1) 161, U. S. 10, an injunc¬ 
tion was sought against the Commandant <t>f the 
Xavv Yard to prevent the use of caisson gates in 
a drydock, which infringed plaintiff’s patent 
rights. The gates were the property of the United 
States. The Supreme Court held: 

The United States, however, like all sov¬ 
ereigns cannot be impleaded in a judicial 
tribunal, except so far as they have con¬ 
sented to be sued (p. lb). 


* 






j *X’ 


It necessarily follows that, unless ex¬ 
pressly permitted by act of Congress, no in¬ 
junction can be granted against the United 
States. United States v. McLemore, 4 Mow. 
28b; IIill v. United States, 9 How. 386 Case 
v. Terrell, 11 Wall. 199 (p. 17). 


* 


* 


* 




But no injunction can be issued against 
officers of a State, to restrain or control the 
use of property already in the possession of 
the State, or money in its treasury when the 



12 


suit is commenced; or to compel the State to 
perform its obligations; or where the State 
has otherwise such an interest in the object 
of the suit as to be a necessary party. 
Louisiana v. Jumel, and Elliott v. Wiltz, 107 
U. S. 711, 720-728: Cunningham v. Macon & 
Brunswick Railroad, 109 U. S. 446, 454-457; 
II a good v. Sothern, 117 U. S. 52, 70; In re 
A gens, 123 l". S. 443; North Carolina v. 
Temple, 134 U. S. 22; MeGahey v. Virginia, 
135 U. S. 662, 684 (pp. 18-19). 


To the same effect is the latter case of Interna¬ 


tional Postal Supply Company v. Bruce, 194 U. S. 
601, where the complainant was the owner of letters 
patent for improvement of stamp-cancellation ma¬ 
chines. It !brought suit against the Postmaster. 

r* o 

complaining of the use of two machines which in¬ 
fringed its letters patent and prayed for an injunc¬ 
tion. The machines were hired bv the United 

* 

States for a term. The Court held that the case 
was governed by Belknap v. Schild, supra, and 
stated that so far as an injunction was concerned, 
the suit was reallv against the United States, as it 
involved property of the United Sates, which point 
is hereinafter discussed. 

Considering the case from its other aspect, the 
effect of a decree, if granted, would be one of spe¬ 
cific performance against the United States, as the 

restraint of Farlev and his subordinates and the 

* 

revocation of Farley 7 s order as prayed for by the 



appellants would require the performance of a con¬ 
tract on which appellants rely, and the remedy, 
though in form restrictive against an officjer, is 
actually mandatory against the sovereign. 

On this point, a case almost identical with the 
facts and of inescapable analogy is Wells v. Roper, 
246 U. 8. 335. Roper, First Assistant Postihaster 
General, annulled a contract theretofore made be¬ 
tween the plaintiff and the Postmaster General, 
acting for the United States, and a suit for an in¬ 
junction was brought in the Supreme Court of the 
District of Columbia to restrain him from interfer¬ 
ing between the plaintiff and the United Stajf.es in 
the execution of the contract. The plaintiff agreed 
in the contract to furnish for four years a number 
of automobiles and chauffeurs for use in collecting 
the mail, and expended considerable money and in¬ 
curred substantial obligations in order to perform 
this contract. Roper determined it to be in the 
interest of the public to discontinue this service, 
and notified plaintiff accordingly. Plaintiff! con¬ 
tended that the cancellation was not pursuajnt to 
the contract, and treated Roper not as an official 
but as an individual who, though holding public 
office, was threatening to do unofficial acts outside 
of his functions and come between plaintiff and the 
United States in their contractual relations. There 
was a motion to dismiss on the ground that this was 
virtually a suit against the United States. The 
language of the Supreme Court is peculiarly ap- 



14 


posite to these eases, and is quoted at some length 
on this account as follows: 


Both courts (Supreme Court and Court 

of Appeals of the District of Columbia) held 

it to be substantially and essentially a suit 

• • 

against the United States, and therefore 


beyond the jurisdiction of the court, and in 
this yiew we concur. The effect of the in¬ 
junction asked for would have been to oblige 
the United States to accept continued per¬ 
formance of plaintiff's contract and tints 
prevent the inauguration of the experi¬ 
mental service contemplated by the Act of 
1914, a direct interference with one of the 
processes of government. The argument to 
the contrary assumes to treat defendant not 
as an official but as an individual who, al¬ 


though happening to hold public office, was 
threatening to perpetrate an unlawful act 
outside of its functions. But the averments 
of the bill make it clear that the defendant 


was without personal interest and was acting 
solely in bis official capacity and within the 
scope of his duties. Indeed, it was only be¬ 
cause of his official authority that plaintiff’s 
interests were at all endangered bv what lie 
proposed to do. 

That the interests of the Government are 
so direetlv involved as to make the United 
States a necessary party and therefore to be 
considered as in effect a party, although not 
named in the bill, is entirely plain. And the 
case does not fall within any of the excep¬ 
tions to the general rule that the United 


15 


States may not be sued without its consent, 

* | ' 

nor its executive agents subjected to tl|ie con¬ 
trol of the courts respecting the performance 
of their official duties. It cannot success¬ 
fully be contended that any question iof de¬ 
fendant’s official authority is involve^; it is 
a mere question of action alleged to be Incon¬ 
sistent with the stipulation under wljiich it 
purported to be taken; nor can it be (jlenied 
that the duty of the Postmaster General, 
and of the defendant as his deputy, \^as ex¬ 
ecutive in character, not ministerial, ajnd re¬ 
quired an exercise of official discretion.! And 
neither the question of official authority nor 
that of official discretion is affected, for pres¬ 
ent purposes, by assuming or conceding, for 
the purposes of the argument, that th£ pro¬ 
posed action may have been unwarranted by 
the terms of the contract and such as tf) con¬ 
stitute an actionable breach of that contract 
by the United States. * 

We recognize that, in the earlier case of Phila¬ 
delphia Company v. Stimson, 223 U. S. 60o, the 
Supreme Court used language which, withbut a 
statement of the facts, might indicate a different 
rule from that latterly announced in Wells v. 
Roper, supra, but when the facts in the cqse of 
Philadelphia Company v. Stimson, supra, are con¬ 
sidered, there is no diversity between the opinions, 
because in the Stimson case the charge was that the 
Secretary of War and other officers of the War De¬ 
partment were in effect committing a trespass upon 

plaintiff’s property and were threatening to prose- 
93009—34—3 




16 


cute criminal action in connection therewith in re¬ 
lation to fixing a harbor line near Pittsburgh, and 
the Court held that the exemption of the United 
States from suit, except where it consents to be 
sued, does not give an officer immunity under such 
circumstances. This distinction between the cases 
was recognized in the still later case of Goltra v. 
Weeks, 271 U. S. 536, where the plaintiff sought to 
enjoin the seizure of a fleet of towboats by the Sec¬ 
retary of War and Army officers who were charged 
to be engaged in a conspiracy to deprive him of the 
boats, which belonged to him under a lease from the 
Government. The Supreme Court held that the 
Stimson case and the Bo per case were clearly dis¬ 
tinguishable, on the ground that the Stimson case 
sought to restrain “a trespass upon the property of 
the plaintiff”, whereas in the Roper case “the auto¬ 
mobiles of the plaintiff were not to be taken away 
from him bv the Government officers’’, nor are the 
planes of appellants in the instant cases. The 
Court further explained the distinction in the fol¬ 
lowing language: 

What the officer (Roper) was doing was 
merely exercising the authority entrusted to 
him by law for the benefit of the Govern¬ 
ment in annulling a contract which involved 
no change of possession or title to the prop¬ 
erty. To enjoin the officer’s action was in 
effect enforcement by specific performance 
of a contract against the United States. It 
was an affirmative remedv sought against 
the Government which, though in form 



17 



merely restrictive of an officer, was really 
mandatory against the sovereign. The dif¬ 
ference between an injunction against the 
illegal seizure of property lawfully pos¬ 
sessed and against the cancellation of & con¬ 
tract which involved no change of possession 
is manifest. 

Still another reason appears that these ar^ suits 
-against the United States, namely, its property is 
involved. This proposition was strikingly brought 


out in the case of Goldberg v. Daniels, 231 U. S. 
219. In that case it appeared that a cruiser had 


been striken from the Naval register, and Daniels, 
. as Secretary of the Navy, advertised for bids. Pe¬ 
titioner bid more than the appraised value, sending 
in a certified check. Petitioner’s bid was highest. 
Daniels refused to turn the vessel over to peti¬ 
tioner, but instead loaned it to the State of Qregon 
for state purposes. This court held that the Secre¬ 


tary’s discretion was not ended by receipt and open¬ 
ing of the bids, even though they satisfied all con¬ 
ditions, and the Supreme Court in its opinion saw 
“no sufficient reason for throwing doubt upon the 
premises for the decision”, but added: 

There is another reason that comes earlier 
in point of logic. The United States is the 
owner in possession of the vessel. It cannot 
be interfered with behind its back, and, as it 
cannot be made a party, the suit must fail 
(.Belknap v. Schild, 161 U. S. 10; inter¬ 
national Postal Supply Co. v. Bruch, 194 
U. S. 601-606; Oregon v. Hitchcock, 202 



IS 


U. S. 60, 69; Naganab v. Hitchcock, 202 
U. S. 473). 

That the United States lias property in the mails 
was held as early as 1845. in Sea right v. Stokes, 3 
How. 151. There the United States had ceded to 
Pennsylvania a post road, on condition that no tolls 
should be charged the United States whenever its 


property was transported alone; that road. Cer¬ 
tain persons contracted with the United States to 
carry the mail along that road, and the State offi¬ 
cials sought to collect tolls from these contractors. 
Tliev resisted on the ground that as the mails which 
they were carrying were the property of the United 
States, the carriage in which the mails were trans¬ 


ported was not subject to toll. When the case 
reached the Supreme Court of the United States, 
that court held: 


The United States have unquestionably a 
property in the mails. They are not mere 
common carriers, but a Government, per¬ 
forming a high official duty in holding and 
guarding its own property as well as that 
of its citizens committed to its care. 

To the same effect is In re Debs, 158 U. S. 564, 
583, wherein the Court used the following lan¬ 
guage : 

Neither can it be doubted that the Gov¬ 
ernment has such an interest in the subject 
matter as enables it to appear as a party 
plaintiff in this suit. It is said that equity 
only interferes for the protection of prop- 



19 


erty, and that the Government has n<i) prop¬ 
erty interest. A sufficient reply is tjiat the 
United States have a property in the) mails, 
the protection of which was one of tljie pur¬ 
poses of this bill. 

Although the acts complained of in these jjppeals 
are alleged to be unconstitutional, the suits jcannot 
be maintained if they are in effect suits agaipst the 
United States. 


mined 
ood v. 


This proposition has been definitely detcil 
in two Supreme Court cases; namely, Hac 
Sothcru, 117 U. S. 52, and In re Ayers, 123 U. S. 
443. | 

In II a good v. Sot-hern, 117 U. S. 52, the State of 
South Carolina issued bonds which provided that 
they should be receivable in payment of taxes. It 
was also provided in the act authorizing {he is¬ 
suance of these bonds that an annual tax of} three 
mills for every dollar of taxable property should 
be levied to secure the redemption of such bonds. 
Subsequently, the State repealed the act for the 
levy of this tax and enacted a statute providing 
that such bonds should not be receivable ip pay¬ 
ment of taxes. Such latter statute was alleged to 

V 

be unconstitutional, being an impairment of con¬ 
tract. The plaintiffs, as owners of these bonds, 
instituted suit against the officials of the Stjite to 
compel them to levy the tax and to accept the bonds 
in payment of taxes. The Supreme Court, in 1 hold¬ 


ing that the suit could not be maintained beca 


use it 




20 


was, in effect, a suit against the State, which had 
not given its consent to be sued, held: 

These suits are accurately described as 
bills for the specific performance of a con¬ 
tract between the complainants and the State 
of South Carolina, who are the only parties 
to it. But to these bills the State is not in 
name made a party defendant, though leave 
is given to it to become such, if it chooses; 
and, except with that consent, it could not be 
brought before the Court and be made to ap¬ 
pear and defend. And yet it is the actual 
party to the alleged contract the performance 
of which is decreed, the one required to per¬ 
form the decree, and the only party by whom 
it can be performed. Though not nominally 
a party to the record, it is the real and only 
party in interest, the nominal defendants 
being the officers and agents of the State, 
having no personal interest in the subject 
matter of the suit, and defending onlv as 
representing the State. And the things re¬ 
quired by the decrees to be done and per¬ 
formed by them are the verv things which, 
when done and performed, constitute a per¬ 
formance of the alleged contract bv the state. 
The state is not onlv the real partv to the 
controversy, but the real party against which 
relief is sought by the suit and the suit is, 
therefore, substantially within the prohibi¬ 
tion of the Eleventh Amendment to the Con¬ 
stitution of the United States (p. 67). 

In In re Ayers> supra, a suit was brought by the 
holders of bonds issued by Virginia, which pro- 



21 


i 

i 

vided that the coupons should be accepted in pay¬ 
ment of taxes. The plaintiffs sought to enjoin the 
Attorney General and other officials from institut¬ 
ing suits to enforce the collection of taxes against 
the plaintiff, who had tendered coupons in payment 

of the same. The Court holding that it was in effect 

I 

a suit against the state, said: 

A bill in equity for the specific perform¬ 
ance of contract against the state by name, 
it is admitted, could not be brought. In 
Hagood v. Sot-hern, 117 U. S. 52, it was de¬ 
cided that in such a bill where the state was 
not nominally a party to the record, brought 
against its officers and agents, having no per¬ 
sonal interest in the subject matter of the 
suit, and defending only as representing the 
state, where “the things required by the de¬ 
cree to be done and performed by them are 
the very things which, when done and per¬ 
formed, constitute a performance of 1]he al¬ 
leged contract bv the State”, the Couft was 
without jurisdiction, because it was a suit 
against the state. 

The converse of that proposition must be 
equally true, because it is contained in it; 
that is, a bill, the object of which is by in¬ 
junction, indirectly to compel the specific 
performance of the contract, by forbidding 
all those acts and doings which constitute 
breaches of the contract, must also, Neces¬ 
sarily, be a suit against the state. In such a 
case, though the state be not nominally a 
party to the record, if the defendant^ are 



99 


its officers and agents, through whom alone 
it can act in doing and refusing to do the 
things which constitute a breach of its con- 
tract, the suit is still, in substance, though 
not iit form, a suit against the State. 

Lastlv, we call attention to Transcontinental and 
Western Air, Inc. v. Farley, Postinaster General, 
et ah, 71 Fed. (2d) 288, certiorari denied October 
15, 1934, in which was raised the identical question 
presented in the instant appeals. The Transcon¬ 
tinental and Western Air, Inc., contract was an¬ 
nulled at the same time the appellants’ contracts 
were annulled, and the facts were substantially 
identical. The Circuit Court of Appeals for the 
Second Circuit decided the case adversely to the 
plaintiff on the authority of Wells v. Roper, supra, 
and, among other things, held: 

The appellant may not obtain specific per¬ 
formance of its contract against the United 
States and interfere with the process of 
government without at least making it a 
party, and since no consent has been granted, 
the suit cannot be maintained. (Cases 
cited.) 

The bill should have been dismissed for 
want of jurisdiction * * *. 

We therefore submit that anv decrees entered 

%/ 

for the appellants would be directed against the 
United States, for the reason that thev would con- 
stitute an interference with one of the processes 
of Government, to wit, the carriage of the mails; 
would enjoin the United States from exercising its 



I 


23 

right through its proper officer to annul or rescind 
a contract to which it was a party; or, mere ac¬ 
curately, would require the specific performance 
of a contract bv the United States; and Iwould 
affect the property of the United States. 'These 
suits being, therefore, essentially against the United 
States, they cannot be maintained, as the United 
States has not consented to be sued for any such 
pmposes. 

II 

Appellants have a plain, adequate, and complete remedy 
at law, namely, in the Court of Claims, for ^lleged 
breach of contract 

Appellants take the position that the act^ com¬ 
plained of were not official acts of the Government 
(R. 49). 

Article I, Section 8, of the Constitution provides 
that Congress shall have power to establish post 
offices and post roads, and make all laws which 
shall be necessary and proper for carrying into 
execution this power and all other powers vested by 
the Constitution in the United States or in aiiv De- 

j V 

partment thereof. In McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 
Wheat. 316, Chief Justice Marshall said: 

Take, for example, the power “to Estab¬ 
lish post offices and post roads.’’ This 
power is executed by the single act of mak¬ 
ing the establishment, but, from thik has 
been inferred the power and duty of carry¬ 
ing the mail along the post road, from one 
post office to another. 




24 


In the exercise of this constitutional power, Con¬ 
gress has established a Post Office Department, and 
imposed upon the Postmaster General the duty to 
41 superintend generally the business of the Depart¬ 
ment and execute all laws relative to the Postal 
Service” (Sec. 369, Ti. 5, U. S. C.). 

The carriage of the mails is the principal busi¬ 
ness of the Department. The acts complained of 
prevent appellants from receiving the mails for 
carriage. The contracts upon which appellants rely 
were made by appellee’s predecessor in office. The 
making of such contracts is admitted by appellants 
to be an official act. The refusal of appellee to 
place mail on the planes of appellants must likewise 
be an official act. The United States must act 
through agents. The agent designated by statute 
as the head of the Department and to superintend 
the business of the carriage of the mails is the 
Postmaster General, who is the appellee. 

His acts in these cases must necessarilv be official 

* 

acts, and if they contravene appellants’ contractual 
rights, as appellants allege, they have a plain, ade¬ 
quate, and complete remedy in the Court of Claims 
for breachjof contract (Wells v. Roper, supra). 
The contention of appellants that the acts of Farley 
purport to be based upon a finding that appellants 
have participated in a collusive transaction and 
that therefore their reputation and good will have 
been injured does not change the remedy (R. 60, 
61), and is an incident to any contractual relations 



25 


where one party to a contract annuls or rescinds 
on the ground of fraud in its inception, and leaves 
the other party to his suit for money damages. A 
finding or verdict for the party whose contract has 
been annulled is the vindication of his reputation, 
and when parties contract with the United States, 

where the injunctive or specific performance route 

1 

is not available, it is the only vindication provided 
by the law. j 

In addition, we call attention to the fact that Con- 
gress has expressly provided a remedy for appel¬ 
lants in the Court of Claims. Section 8 of dn act 
approved June 12, 1934 (Public, No. 308, 73d Con¬ 
gress), provides as follows: 

Any company alleging to hold a plaim 
against the Government on account o:: any 
air-mail contract that may have heretpfore 
been annulled, may prosecute such claim as 
it may have against the United Statep for 
the cancelation of such contract in the Court 
of Claims of the United States, provided that 
such suit be brought within one year from 
the date of the passage of this 
Act; * * * 

III 

i 

The appellee exercised judgment and discretion in a 
matter within the scope of his authority and part of 
his official duties when he annulled appellants’ 
contracts 

Appellants charge that appellee’s order annul¬ 
ling their contracts and their consequent disqualifi¬ 
cation from contracting was beyond his powers and 



26 


authority, and capricious and arbitrary. We have 
hereinabove discussed under Point II the official 
character of the act complained of. The act was 
performed by Farley under his general powers and 
the specific authority and dutv vested bv Section 
3950, R. S. His power “to superintend generally 
the business of the Department" is necessarily ade¬ 
quate to annul a contract ascertained to have been 
made fraudulently or in contravention of Section 
3950, R. S. If no contract mav lawfully be made 

7 v * 

under the circumstances stated in Section 3950, 
R. S., anv contract made under such cir- 
cumstancds would be of no legal effect, and the 
Postmaster General, superintending the busi¬ 
ness generally of the Department, is the agent of 
the United States to declare the contract null and 
void and it is his duty so to do (United States v. 
Adams , 7 Wall. 463, 477). Indeed, the Supreme 
Court of the United States has held the annulling 
of a contract to be within Rie^auth^ity of the 
Postmaster General in WvU s v. U&prr, supra, 
wherein the Court said: 


What the officer was doing was merely 
exercising the authority entrusted to him by 
law for the benefit of the Government in 
annulling a contract * * *. 

To the same effect is Crocker v. United States, 
240 U. S. 74, 81, wherein the Court held: 

Of course, the secret arrangement with 
Machen operated to vitiate the company’s 



contract, and justified the Postmaster! Gen¬ 
eral in rescinding it on discovering the 
fraud. ' I 

Appellants refer to the Independent Offices Ap¬ 
propriation Act of 1933, wherein the President is 
given the power to modify or cancel any contract 

i 

entered into by the United States upon a finding 
of public i lit (‘rest or substantial savings. This act 
further provides that, in the event of such modifi¬ 
cation or cancellation, the President shall deter¬ 
mine just compensation therefor and also provides 
for a judicial review by The Court of Claims as to 
the fairness of the compensation so fixed. Appel¬ 
lants apparently overlook that this right of the 
President relates to a modification or cancellation 
of a contract and the payment of compensation 
therefor with judicial review, which is entirely 
separate and apart from the annullmont of a con¬ 
tract because of illegality in its inception. 

That the order was not capricious or arbitrary 
will be presumed unless there are averments t(j> the 
contrarv (Laris v. United Stales, 279 U. Si 63, 
73). The only averments in the bills of complaint 
are the mere conclusions that his act was capricious 
and arbitrary. But that it was not capricious and 
arbitrary is affirmatively shown by the statement 
of appellee issued on the same day that his order 
was issued, namely: 

This order annulling the existing domestic 



28 


ful and deliberate study of the entire situa- 
tion, which study included conferences be¬ 
tween myself and other officials of the Post 
Office Department with the President and 
with the Attorney General and other repre¬ 
sentatives of the Department of Justice. All 
lnjtve concurred in the decision reached. The 
entire matter was canvassed this morning at 
the Department of Justice in a conference 
participated in by myself. Attorney General 
Homer S. Cummings; Karl A. Crowley, 
Solicitor of the Post Office Department; 
Harllee Branch, Second Assistant Post¬ 
master General; Col. Carl L. Ristine, Special 
Assistant to the Attorney General: Angus 
D. MacLean, Assistant Solicitor General; 
and Alexander Holtzofi*. Special Assistant to 
the Attorney General. 

Following the cabinet meeting this after¬ 
noon. a conference was held between the 
President, the Attorney General, and mvself, 
and it was at this conference that a final 
decision was reached. 


The determination of whether appellants have 
offended against Section 3950. R. S., involves the 
exercise of judgment and discretion lodged with 
the Postmaster General, and the Courts have re¬ 
peatedly held that they will not interfere in such 
circumstances ( Wells v. Roper , supra). 



29 


IY 


I 

The cases cited by appellants are inapplicable fo the 

instant cases 

Appellants cite many cases where injunctions 

# 

were granted against officials of the United States 

i 

and the states, but none of the cases are applicable 
to the instant cases. 

The cases cited and relied upon by appellants 
and others of a similar character go no further 1 !than 
to hold that injunctive relief will be granted to re¬ 
strain Government officials from committing a tres¬ 
pass (e. g., Phil add pi da Co. v. Slim son, 223 tJ. S. 
60*">: United Slates v. Lee, 106 U. S. 196); or from 
wrongfully seizing the property of a private!citi¬ 
zen (e. g., Green how v. Poindexter, Virgin in j cou¬ 
pon eases, 114 U. S. 270; Lipke v. Ledercrl 259 
U. S. 557; Ex parte Young, 209 U. S. 125) ; or from 
wrongful denial to a citizen of the use of the ijiails 
(e. g., School of Magnetic Healing v. McAnnfdty, 
187 U. S. 94,108) ; or from casting a cloud upon the 
title of petitioner (e. g., Santa Fe P. 11. Co. v. Fall, 
259 U. S. 197); or from the wrongful denial to a 
citizen of the right to engage in intrastate com¬ 
merce (e. g., Hammer v. Dagenliart, 247 U. S. 251). 
Appellants have cited no case holding that a suit 
will lie for an injunction to prevent the annulment 
of a contract to which the United States is a party, 
or for the specific performance of its contract, or 
for an interference with its property. Such a Case 
would be applicable to the instant appeals. 




30 


The inapplicability of the eases cited by appel¬ 
lants is clearly recognized in Morrison v. Work, 1266 
U. S. 481:. 486, where the Court, after holding; that 
the suit was against the United States because the 
property-was subject to the control of the United 
States, namely, tribal property of the Indians, held 
as follows: 


The case at bar is unlike those in which 
relief by injunction lias been granted against 
the head of an executive department, or other 
officer, of the Government to enjoin an offi¬ 
cial act on the ground that it was not within 
the authority conferred, or that it was an 
improper exercise of such authority, or that 
Congress lacked the power to confer the 
authority exercised. In those cases the act 
complained of either involved an invasion or 
denial of a definite right of the plaintiff, or 
it operated to cast a cloud upon his property. 
In some of those cases the defendant would 
have been liable individually in trespass 
unless he could justify under authority con¬ 
ferred. Morrison and the other Chippewas 
have no right of that character. 


V 


The penalty myth 

Appellants throughout their brief refer to the 
imposition of a “penalty” upon them. This is a 
harsh word designed to arouse the sympathy of the 
court. Now, to what do tliev refer? They refer 
to the operation of Section 3950, R. S. That sec- 


tion provides that no contract for carrying tliej mail 
sliall be made with any person who has entered 
into any combination to prevent the making of any 

i 

bid: and that if any person so offending is aj con¬ 
tractor, his contract may be annulled and he shall 
be disqualified to contract for carrying the mall for 
five years. The contracts of appellants were made 
upon the express condition that they would j hold 
themselves “subject to all conditions imposed by 
the several Acts of Congress relating to * * * 
postal service generally*' (R. 33. 34). Their con¬ 
tracts, therefore, expressly and of course impliedly, 
contain this provision of the Revised Statutes,) and 
are subject thereto. When appellants entered into 
these* contracts, they did so subject to these and 
other conditions. 

While this statute does not expressly repose in 
the Postmaster General the dutv of administering 
it, we have shown under Points IT and III of this 
brief that it is unquestionably within his powers 
and authority as agent for the United States. 
Therefore, when he performs the act complained 
of, namelv, annuls a contract under this statute, 

* ’ . i 7 

the contractor, by express direction of Congress 
and without any action by appellee, is deprivejd of 
the right to contract for five years. There is no 
more penalty involved than there is when any party 
to a contract elects to annul or rescind on the 
ground of fraud and determines not to contract 
with the other party in the future. The injured 
party may bring suit if he believes the contract to 



32* 


have been wrongfully annulled, and the appellants 
in these eases may bring such suit in the proper 
forum. 

Appellants endeavor to treat the annulment of 
the contract and the disqualification of the con¬ 
tractor as separate acts. They are not separate in 
any sense. The disqualification to contract follows 
the annulment of the contract by direction of 


Congress. 

A contract between the United States and an in¬ 
dividual is generally subject to all the rules appli¬ 
cable to contracts between individuals. United 
States v. Tinge jj, 5 Pet. 115; Heading Steel Casting 
Co. v. United States, 268 U. S. 186. The United 
States may, therefore, as a contractor, annul or 
rescind upon the same principles as an individual 
and subject to the same liabilities, except that the 
United States may not be required specifically to 
perform its contract ; and the United States may, 
when it has annulled, disqualify the contractor, as 
in the instant cases, under the direction of Con¬ 
gress. There is, therefore, no penalty involved. 

Referring to cases where the freedom of 4f con¬ 
tract may be restrained, the Supreme Court in Ad¬ 
kins v. Children's Hospital. , 261 U. S. 525, 547, cites 
statutes relating to contracts for the performance 
of public work as being within such class, and states 
the rule as follows; 


These cases sustain such statutes as de¬ 
pending, not upon the right to condition 



33 


private contracts, but upon the | right 
of the government to prescribe the Condi¬ 
tions upon which it will permit work of a 
public character to be done for it, or, in the 
case of a State, for its municipalities. We 
may, therefore, in like manner, dismiss [these 
decisions from consideration as inapplicable. 

i 

Congress has expressly recognized this disqual¬ 
ification, and has given a measure of relief in the 
Act of Congress approved June 12, 1934, .supra, 
wherein it is provided that 

i 

* * * Any person not ineligible under 
the terms of this Act who qualifies under the 
other requirements of this Act shall be 
eligible to contract for carrying air mail, 
notwithstanding the provisions of section 
3950 of the Revised Statutes. 

The persons ineligible under the terms of j this 
Act are persons or corporations having officers or 
employees performing managerial duties who there¬ 
tofore entered into unlawful combinations to pre¬ 
vent the making of bids. 

And lastly, in this connection, we submit that ap¬ 
pellants have no standing in a court of equitv to 

complain in respect to the alleged disqualification, 

: 

because they do not allege that they have submitted 
bids, that theirs were the lowest bids, that they 
complied with all the terms of the advertisement, 
and were otherwise qualified to receive the ex¬ 
tracts, which were, without justification, refused by 



34 


appellee, i Even upon such a showing, we submit 
that it is doubtful that this court would interfere, 
in view of the decision in Cummins v. Burleson, 40 
App. D. C. 500, wherein the Court held, in connec¬ 
tion with a contract, that the Postmaster General 
“having discretion, it is immaterial whether it was 
rightly exercised or not; his action is not the subject 
of judicial review.” See also Goldberg v. Daniels, 
supra . 

VI 

Due process is not involved where a contract is annulled 

Appellants refer to the failure to accord them 
“notice and hearing” before appellee acted. Sec¬ 
tion 3950. R. S. does not require notice and hearing, 
but appellants contend that this must be read into 
the statute in order to make it constitutional. Ap¬ 
pellants apparently overlook that they are not in 
the position of persons who have been deprived of 
property by unauthorized acts of Government offi¬ 
cers where due process would be involved, but are 
in the position of a contractor where the other party 
to the contract has determined to annul and do 
other acts which the contract provided he might do 
if annulled, namely, refuse to contract further for a 
period of live years ( Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 
supra). By no stretch of the imagination can there 
be a duty of “notice and hearing” imposed as a 
condition to the avoidance of a contract ( Manila 
Investment Co. v. Trammell, 239 U. S. 31). 


I 


35 

Appellants cite Lynch v. United States, 29211. S. 
571. but what appellee has done in the instant cases 
is quite different from the Act of Congress iin the 
Lynch case. There Congress, in the so-called 

Economy Act of 1933, “took awav v the right of 

! 

beneficiaries under all War Risk Term Insurance 
policies by repealing all laws pertaining to such 
insurance. In the instant cases, the laws pertain¬ 
ing to appellants' contracts are not repealed, ijnd if 
the annulment was without justification oil im- 
proper, appellants can maintain their rights under 
such contracts, and their remedy is a suit in the 
Court of Claims. 

CONCLUSION 

We therefore submit that the judgments ojf the 
court below should be affirmed. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Leslie C. Garnett, 

United States Attorney, 

David A. Pine, 

Assistant United States Attorney, 

John W. Fihelly, ! 
Assistant United States Attorney, 

Attorneys for Appellee. 

Carl L. Ristine, 

Special Assistant to the Attorney General. 
Harry L. Jones, 

Attorney , Department of Justice, 

Of Counsel. 



APPENDIX 


Constitution of the United States: 


Art. I. Section 8: 

Tlie Congress shall have Power— 

» 

***** 

To establish Post Offices and Post Roads. 
***** 


To make all Laws which shall be necessary 
and proper for carrying into Execution the 
foregoing Powers, and all other Powers 
vested by this Constitution in the Govern¬ 
ment of the United States, or in any Depart¬ 
ment or Officer thereof. 


R. S.. Sec. 396 (U. S. C.. Title 5. Sec. 369) 


It shall be the duty of the Postmaster 
(tenoral: 

***** 

Ninth. To superintend generally the busi¬ 
ness of the department and execute all laws 
relative to the Postal Service. 


R. S., Sec. 3960 (U. S. 0.. Title 39. Sec. 432) 


No contract for carrying the mail shall 
be made with any person who has entered, or 
proposed to enter, into any combination to 
prevent the making of any bid for carrying 
the mail, or who has made anv agreement, 
or given or performed, or promised to give 
or perform, anv consideration whatever to 
induce any other person not to bid for any 
such contract; and if any person so offend¬ 
ing i is a contractor for carrying the mail, 

v* O 7 

(S6) : 



37 


his contract may be annulled; and fo|r the 
first offense the person so offending shall be 
disqualified to contract for carrying the mail 
for five years, and for the second offense 
shall be forever disqualified. 

Sec. 4 of the Act approved Feb. 2, 1925, c. 128, 
43 Stat. 805, Air Mail Act (U. S. C., Title 39} Sec. 
464): | 


That the Postmaster General is authorized 
to contract with any individual, firm, or cor¬ 
poration for the transportation of air mail 
by aircraft between such points as lie may 
designate at a rate not to exceed four-fifths 
of tiie revenues derived from such air mail, 
and to further contract for the transporta¬ 
tion bv aircraft of first-class mail other than 
air mail at a rate not to exceed four-fifths of 
the revenues derived from such first-class 
mail. ! 

The Act approved June 3, 1926, c. 460, 44 |Stat. 

692 (not contained in U. S. C.): 

That the Postmaster General is authorized 
to contract with anv individual, firm, or cor- 
poration for the transportation of air mail 
by aircraft between such points as lie may 
designate, and to further contract for the 
transportation by aircraft of first-class mail 
other than air mail at fixed rates per pound, 
including equipment, under such rates, rules, 
and regulations as he may prescribe, not ex¬ 
ceeding $3 per pound for air mail foy the 
first one thousand miles and not to exceed 
30 cents per pound additional for each Addi¬ 
tional one hundred miles or fractional jpart 
thereof for routes in excess of one thousand 
miles in length, and not exceeding 60 <bents 
per pound for first-class mail other thaii air 



38 


mail for the first one thousand miles, and 

not to exceed 6 cents per pound additional 

for each additional one hundred miles or 

fractional part thereof for routes in excess 

of one thousand miles in length. Existing 

contracts mav be amended bv the written 

• • 

consent of the contractor and the Postmaster 
General to provide for a fixed rate per 
pound, including equipment, said rate to be 
determined by multiplying the rate herein¬ 
above provided by a fraction, the numerator 
of which is the per centum of revenues de¬ 
rived from air mail to which the contractor 
was previously entitled under the contract, 
and the denominator of which is eightv. 


Sec. 6 of the Act approved May IT, 1928. c. 603, 
45 Stat. 594 ( Kelly Act—not contained in U. S. C.) : 

That the Postmaster General mav bv lie go- 
tiatimi with an air-mail contractor who has 
satisfactorily operated under the authority 
of this Act for a period of two years or more, 
arrange, with the consent of the surety for 
the contractor and the continuation of the 
obligation of the surety during the existence 
or life of the certificate provided for herein¬ 
after. for the surrender of the contract and 
the substitution therefor of an air-mail-route 
certificate, which shall be issued bv the Post- 
master General in the name of such air-mail 
contractor, and which shall provide that the 
holder shall have the right of carriage of 
air mail over the route set out in the certifi¬ 
cate iso long as he complies with such rules, 
regulations, and orders as shall from time to 

time be issued bv the Postmaster General for 

♦ 

meeting the needs of the Postal Service and 
adusting air-mail operations to the advances 
in the art of living: Provided , That such 
certificate shall be for a period not exceeding 



the 

the 


ten years from the beginning of carnving 
mail under the contract. Said certificate 
mav be canceled at anv time for willful jneg- 
lect on the part of the holder to carry out 
such rules, regulations, or orders; notice of 
such intended cancellation to be given in 
writing by the Postmaster General and >]ixty 
days provided to the holder in whielji to 
answer such written notice of the Postmdster 
General. The rate of compensation to! the 
holder of such an air-mail-route certificate 
shall bo determined bv periodical negotiation 
between the certificate holder and the lie 
master General, but shall never exceed 
rate of compensation provided for in 
original contract of the air-mail-route certifi¬ 
cate holder. j 

Secs. 1 and 2 of the Act approved April 29. 19)>0, 
c. 223, 4b Stat. 259 (Watres Act—Secs. 404 }md 
465c, Title 39. U. S. C.): 

Sec. 1. That section 4 of tin 1 Air Mail Act 
of Februarv 2, 1925, as amended bv the |Yct 
of June 3,1*926 (44 Stat. 692; U. S. C., Sulpp. 
Ill, title 39, sec. 464), be amended to react as 
follows: 

“Sec. 4. The Postmaster General is au¬ 
thorized to award contracts for the trans¬ 
portation of air mail by aircraft between 
such points as he may designate to the loviest 
responsible bidder at fixed rates per nlile 
for definite weight spaces, one cubic foot! of 
space being computed as the equivalent of 
nine pounds of air mail, such rates not to 
exceed $1.25 per mile: Provided, That where 
the air mail moving between the designated 
points does not exceed twenty-five cubic fe|et, 
or two hundred and twenty-five pounds per 
trip, the Postmaster General may award to 
the lowest responsible bidder, who has owned 



40 


and operated an air transportation service 
on a tixed dailv schedule over a distance of 
not less than two hundred and tiftv miles 
and for a period of not less than six months 
prior to the advertisement for bids, a con¬ 
tract at a rate not to exceed 40 cents per mile 
for a weight space of twenty-live cubic feet, 
or two hundred and twenty-five pounds. 
Whenever sufficient air mail is not available, 
first-class mail matter may be added to make 
up the maximum load specified in such 
contract.' 7 

Sec. 2. That section 6 of the Act of May 
17, 1928 (45 Stat. 594; U. S. C., Supp. Ill, 
title 39, sec. 465c), be amended to read as 
follows: 

“Sec. 6. The Postmaster General may, if 
in his judgment the public interest will lie 
promoted thereby, upon the surrender of 
any air-mail contract, issue in substitution 
therefor a route certificate for a period of 
not exceedin':' ten vears from the date service 


started under such contract to anv contractor 

•/ 

or subcontractor who has satisfactorily op¬ 
erated an air-mail route for a period of not 


less than two vears, which certificate shall 

* 

provide that the holder thereof shall have the 
right, so long as he complies with all rules, 
regulations, and orders that mav be issued 
bv the Postmaster General for meeting the 
needs of the Postal Service and adjusting 
mail operations to the advances in the art 
of flying and passenger transportation, to 
carry air mail over the route set out in the 
certificate or any modification thereof at 
rates of compensation to be fixed from time 
to time, at least annually, by the Postmaster 
General, and he shall publish in liis annual 
report his reasons for the continuance or the 
modification of any rates: Prodded, That 



41 


such rates shall not exceed $1.25 per mile. 
Such certificate may be canceled at any time 
for willful neglect on the part of the holder 
to carry out anv rules, regulations, or orders 
made for his guidance, notice of such in¬ 
tended cancellation to be given in writing by 
the Postmaster General and forty-five I days 
allowed the holder in which to show cause 

whv the certificate should not be canceled.” 
* 


U S COVCRNNCNT PRINTING OFFICE . 





FitEU NOV 2 11934 




V lC4AAM ft 'JiTifiuqj. 

IN THE / 

fHiuteb States Court of appeals! 

FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 
April Term, 1934. 


Xo. 6287. 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, Appellant 

Xo. 6288. 

Xational Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, 

Appellant 

Xo. 6289. 

Pacific Air Transport, a Corporation, Appellant 

Xo. 6290. 

Varney Air Lines, Inc., a Corporation, et al., 

Appellants 

vs. 

James A. Farley, an Individual. 


REPLY BRIEF ON BEHALF OF APPELLANTS. 


William J. Donovan, 

Attorney for Appellants , 
1010 Shoreham Building, 
Washington, D. C. 

Frederick W. Jackson, 

Carl E. Newton, 

Theodore S. Hope, 

Ralstone R. Irvine, 

Of Counsel. 


Press ok Byron S. Adams. Washington. D. C. 



INDEX. 


Page 


Argument ! 

1. The Entry of a Declaratory Judgment lie- 
lining the Scope of the Powers of the 
Postmaster General of the United States 
Under Section 3950 of the Revised Stat¬ 
utes Will Not Affect the Property of t|ie 
United States Nor Compel It Spec f- 
ically to Perform Its Contracts and a Suit 
for the Entry of Such a Judgment is 
Therefore Not a Suit Against the United 
States . 


II. The Brief of the Appellee Ignores but Dojes 
Not Meet the Argument of the Plaint iff 
That a Suit to Enjoin the Threatened Im¬ 
position of a Penalty Which for a Period 
of Five Years Will Prevent This Plain¬ 
tiff from Bidding or Contracting for tljie 
Carriage of the Air Mail is Not a Sijit 
Against the United States. . 

III. The case of Transcontinental & Western 
Airlines, Inc. v. Farley, Postmaster Ge 
eral, et al. 


l- 


11 


14 


Table of Cases. 

Buffalo v. International Ry. Co., 135 Misc. 504.. .j. o 
Carolina Power & Light v. Iselev, Mavor, 203 

X. C. 811, 167 S. E. 5G..*.*. 8 

Colorado & Utah Coal Co. v. Walter, 75 Col. 489 

(1924), 226 Pac. 864 . 6 

Colson v. Pelgram, 259 N. Y. 370, 182 X. E. 19.... 10 

Dowdy v. City of Covington, 237 Ky. 274, 35 S. W. 

(2nd) 304 . 7 

Erwin Billiard Parlor v. Buckner, 156 Tenn. 278, 

300 S. W. 565 . 6, 9 











11 


Index Continued. 


Pa e;e 

c? 


Ewa Plantation Co. v. Wallace, 02 Wash. Law Rep. 

830 . 5 

Federal Trade Comm. v. Klesner, 274 U. S. 140.. 5 

Fidelity Xat. Bk. v. Swope, 274 U. S. 123. 7 

Hall v. Eversole’s Adm., 251 Kv. 200, 04 S. W. 

(2nd) 891 .‘. 8 

Harrison v. Walker (1010), 2 K. B. 453. 8 

Hasselbring v. Koepke, 203 Mich. 400. 5 

Hornstein v. Podwitz, 254 X. V. 443, 173 X. E. 074 2 

I lult on v. Halt on (1010), 2 K. B. 042. 5 

Lockhart v. Leeds, 105 U. S. 427, 437. 3 

Miller v. Currie, 242 X. W. 570 (Wis. 1032). 7, 10 

Morecroft v. Taylor, 225 A]»p. Div. 202. 10 

Nashville Rv. Co. v. Wallace, Compt. Tenn., 288 

U. S. 240 . 7 

Xeuheck v. McDonald, 220 X. V. Sup. 701, 128 
Misc. 708 . 10 


Pacific States Corp. v. Pan American Bk., 213 Cal. 

58, 1 Pac. (2nd) 4. 8 

Roper v. Wells, 240 U. S. 335 ... 10 

Sigal v. Wise, 114 Conn. 207, 158 Atl. 801. 7 

Spettabile Consorzio v. Northumberland Sh. Co. 

(1018), 121 L. T. R. 028 . 8 

Tirrell v. Johnston, 80 X. H. 530 . 0, 0 

Transcontinental & Western v. Farley, 71 Fed. 

(2nd) 288 . 14 

U. S. v. Calif. Cooperative Canneries, 270 Y. S. 

. 5 


553 


Statutes, and Other Citations. 

Declaratory Judgment Act (Pub. Xo. 343, 73rd 

Cong.).4, 5, 0, 0, 10 

Enevc. of Federal Procedure, Yol. Ill, Sec. 804. . 3 

Revised Statutes, Sec. 3050 (30 l\ S. C. 432)... . 

1,2, 4,8, 12 

















IN THE 


SJniteb States Court of Appeals 

FOR THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA. 
April Term, 1934. 


Xo. 6287. 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, Appellant 

Xo. 6288. 

Xational Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation 

Appellant 

Xo. 6289. 

Pacific Air Transport, a Corporation, Appellant 

Xo. 6290. 

Varney Air Lines, Inc., a Corporation, et aL 

Appellants 
vs. 

James A. Farley, an Individual. 


REPLY BRIEF ON BEHALF OF APPELLANTS. 


I. 

The Entry of a Declaratory Judgment Defining the 
Scope of the Powers of the Postmaster Genenjd of 
the United States Under Section 3950 of the Re¬ 
vised Statutes Will Not Affect the Property of the 
United States Nor Compel it Specifically to Per¬ 
form Its Contracts and a Suit for the Entry of 
Such a Judgment is Therefore Not a Suit Against 
the United States. 

The Government takes 1 lie position in its brief jthat 
“ The question of whether the United Status is a pUriy 
to a controversy is determined by the effect of the de¬ 
cree which can be entered, not by the nominal party on 
the record The defendant of record in this case is 
Janies A. Farlev and not the United States. 




9 


For the purpose of this brief the plaintiff will as¬ 
sume that the defendant has correctly stated the test 
as to whether or not this is a suit against the United 
States. 1 We come now to apply that test to the facts 
of the instant case to determine whether the relief 
which a court of equity may grant on these pleadings 
must necessarily control or interfere with the prop¬ 
erty of the United States or compel the United States 
to perform its contracts. 

In this case the plaintiff specifically prays that the 
defendant be enjoined from inflicting the following in¬ 
juries : 

(a) Imposing upon this plaintiff the penalties pro¬ 
vided bv Section 3950 of the Revised Statutes whereby 
the company would be prevented from bidding or con¬ 
tracting for the carriage of the airmails for a period of 
five years. It is obvious that an order enjoining the 
imposition of this penalty will not compel the United 
States to perform existing contracts nor control the 
United States in the use of its property. If the test 
urged by the defendant (the effect of the decree to be 
entered) is applied to the granting of this relief it is 
therefore clear that this is not a suit against the United 


Mates. 


(b) Purporting to annul plaintiff's existing con¬ 
tracts for the carriage of the airmail. Under this 


J It is unnecessary to discuss separately the contention advanced by 
appellee in Point II of his brief that the plaintiff has an adequate rem¬ 
edy at law in the Court of Claims. Plaintiff cannot have any remedy in 
the Court of Claims against Farley. Whatever remedies it may have in 
that Court are remedies against the United States and have nothing to 
do with this action (Hornsti in v. 1*<nitrite, 1<3 N. h.. Ih>4 N. 443, 
1930). In short, the contention that there is a remedy in the Court of 
Claims is at bottom merely the contention that this is a suit against the 
United States. In any event the Court of Claims can afford no relief 
on account of the imposition of a penalty which bars this plaintiff from 
bidding or contracting for the carriage of the airmail. 



3 


prayer the plaintiff does not ask that the mails j)e de¬ 
livered to its planes, nor that payment for its services 
be authorized. It prays merely that the defendant 
Farley be enjoined from unlawfully interfering with 
its contracts. The injunction would control bjarley 
only insofar as he acted in violation or excess of his 
authoritv as Postmaster General. Here again it is 
clear that the granting of this relief will not affect the 
United States. Xor will it interfere with an officjial of 
the United States acting within the scope of h^s au¬ 
thority. Consequently the plaintiff is entitled to this 
relief. 

But whether this is a suit against the United States 
is not to be determined solely by reference to specific 
prayers for relief. The bill also contains a pray<jr for 
general relief (R. 18). Even if it be assumed there¬ 
fore that this plaintiff has misapprehended the spe¬ 
cial relief to which it is entitled the courts of the) Dis¬ 
trict of Columbia have jurisdiction to grant the Relief 
to which the plaintiff is properly entitled on the facts 
set forth in the bill. As stated by the Supreme (j'ourt 
of the United States in Lockhart v. Leeds, 195 tf. S. 
427, 437: 

‘‘There is nothing in the intricacy of equity 
pleading that prevents the plaintiff from obtaining 
the relief under the general prayer to wliiqh he 
may be entitled upon the facts plainly stated in 
the bill. There is no reason for denying his right 
to relief, if the plaintiff is otherwise entitled to it, 
simply because it is asked under the prayer for 
general relief and upon a somewhat different 
theorv from that which is advanced under ohe of 
the special prayers .’ 9 

See also, Encyclopaedia of Federal Procedure, 
Vol. Ill, Sec. 804, and the cases there cited. 



4 


In determining the effect of the decree which can be 
entered by the Supreme Court of the District of Colum¬ 
bia the attention of this Court is directed to the fact 
that the courts of the District of Columbia are now em¬ 
powered by statute to enter declaratory judgments. 

There can be no doubt that the entry of a declaratory 

• * 

judgment, describing and defining the powers of the 
Postmaster General under Section 3950, will not affect 
the United States by controlling its property or by 
compelling it to perform its contracts. 

The Statute conferring upon the Courts of the Dis¬ 
trict of Columbia jurisdiction to enter declaratory 
judgments provides as follows: 


ik (l) In cases of actual controversy the courts 
of the United States shall have power upon peti¬ 
tion, declaration, complaint, or other appropriate 
pleadings to declare rights and other legal rela¬ 
tions of any interested party petitioning for such 
declaration, whether or not further relief is or 
could be prayed, and such declaration shall have 
the force and effect of a final judgment or decree 
and be reviewable as such. 


4 *(2) Further relief based on a declaratory 
judgment or decree may be granted whenever nec¬ 
essary or proper. The application shall be by 
petition to a court having jurisdiction to grant the 
relief. If the application be deemed sufficient, the 
court shall, on reasonable notice, require any ad¬ 
verse party, whose rights have been adjudicated 
bv the declaration, to show cause why further re- 
lief should not be granted forthwith. 

c 1 


“ (3) When a declaration of right or the grant¬ 
ing of further relief based thereon shall involve 
the determination of issues of fact triable by a 
jury, such issues may be submitted to a jury in the 
form of interrogatories, with proper instructions 



D 


by the court, whether a general verdict be required 
or not.” Title 28, U. S. Code (Judicial Co\Je Sec. 


274d added June IS, 1934) Pub. No. 346 1 

Cong. 2 


o 
/ O 


rd 


The pleadings in this case do not specifically pray 
for the entrv of a Declaratory Judgment. In this, re- 
gard it is significant that the Declaratory Judgment 
Act was signed by the President of the United States 
on June 14, 1934, eight days after the Supreme Court 
of the District of Columbia entered its judgment in 
this case. (R. 5(i) It is therefore respectfully sub¬ 
mitted that this plaintiff cannot be accused of laches 
in failing to include a prayer for a Declaratory jjudg- 
ment in specific terms. In any event the decisions 
arising under statutes empowering the courts to enter 
declaratory judgments clearly indicate that it is not 
necessary to prav specifically for declaratory relief 
in order to obtain it and that a general praye|r for 
“further relief” is sufficient. 3 


2 This statute confers jurisdiction upon the courts of the District of 
Columbia as “Courts of the United States.” Title IS, Sec. 43 of the 
District of Columbia Code provides that the Supreme Court of the Dis¬ 
trict of Columbia shall possess the same powers and have the same 
jurisdiction as the United States District Courts and shall be ccemed 
a court of the United States. See also U. S. v. California Cooperative 
Canneries , 279 U. S. 553; Federal Trade Comm. v. Klcsner, 274 1 U. S. 
149. In livea Plantation Co. v. Wallace , 62 Wash. Law Rep. 830, the 
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia appears to have exercised 
the jurisdiction conferred by the Declaratory Judgment Statute, i 

s In Hulton v. Hulton . (1916) 2 K. B. 642, it was held that a declara¬ 
tion of rights is within the scope of the other and further relief prayed 
for in the Bill of Complaint. The Court also stated that if this had 
not been true it would have been permissable for the complainant to 
amend on trial. In Hasscl bring v. Kocpke, 263 Mich. 466, 248 X. W. 
869 (1933), it was held that, upon a statute substantially similar to 
the Federal Statute, a declaratory judgment could be had in resjponse 
to a bill praying injunctive relief alone. 

The usual liberal construction applicable to declaratory judgment 
statutes applies also to requirements as to prayers for relief. The 
New York rules require a specific statement of the points which it is 
desired to have declared. In Buffalo v. International Ry. Co., 135 Misc. 



6 


It is therefore apparent that the courts of the Dis¬ 
trict of Columbia have jurisdiction to enter a Declar¬ 
atory Judgment and that the prayer for relief in 


this case is sufficiently broad in its terms to entitle this 


plaintiff to such relief. 

The jurisdictional requisites for a declaratory judg¬ 
ment are present in the case at bar: There is an actual 
controversy'which is neither “unripe” nor moot and 
plaintiff's interests in an adjudication are substantial. 4 


Hop. 504, 239 X. Y. S. 113 (1930), the plaintiff prayed a declaration 
of its rights but failed to specify them in detail. In the face of Rule 
211 requiring such specification, the Court held that the prayer was 
sufficient. 

In any case, not only is it clear that the plaintiff is entitled to amend 
in the Supreme Court of the District, but that it may amend in this 
Court. In Tirrcll v. Johnston, 86 X. H. 530, 171 Atl. 041 (1934), the 
appellate court allowed an amendment on appeal in order to ask a 
declaratory judgment where the appeal was on certified question sub¬ 
mitted by the trial court. 

4 Appellee asserts, however, that before appellant may claim relief 
against defendant Farley’s threat to preclude plaintiff from bidding 
for or concluding any contract with the United States, plaintiff must 
have tendered such a bid and must actually have been prevented from 
contracting. Appellant stands upon its position taken in its first brief 
that no such tender is prerequisite to the establishment of its rights 
even for purposes of obtaining an injunction. But for purposes of a 
declaratory judgment this is yet more clearly true. 

In the words of the Statute, this case involves an “actual contro¬ 
versy”. It is “ripe” for the declaration of the rights of the parties. 
It has been held that mere insecurity in and uncertainty of rights is 
sufficient to ground an action for a declaratory judgment and that a de¬ 
fendant’s acts need be only so definite and final as to constitute a 
genuine threat to plaintiff’s pecuniary interests or even to his peace 
of mind. In this case, however, it is clear that the defendant has in 
fact imposed a penalty upon this plaintiff which for a period of five 
years precludes it from bidding or contracting for the carriage of the 
air mail. lie has also purported to annul plaintiff’s contracts. For the 
reasons stated in plaintiff’s main brief these acts constitute a taking 
of property without “due process of law” and have resulted in irre¬ 
parable damage to this plaintiff. 

Thus in Colorado <)'• l tah Coal Co. v. Walter , 75 Col. 489. 226 Pac. 
864 (1924), defendant coal company had begun legal action to take 
plaintiff 's spring water by eminent domain. Plaintiff succeeded in an 
action for a declaratory judgment that his rights to the water were of 
such a nature as,to defeat the eminent domain proceedings. 

In Eru'in Billiard Parlor v. Buckner , 156 Term. 278; 300 S. W. 565 
(1927), defendant sheriff had merely notified complainants that he 


I 


Indeed appellee lias nowhere suggested that | plain¬ 
tiff’s interest is so insubstantial as to leave it with¬ 
out a cause of action, nor that plaintiff’s injury is with¬ 
out anv remedy whatsoever. 

•> * 

Inasmuch as the Courts of the District of Columbia 


would prosecute them for operating a billiard parlor in defiance of the 
statute which complainants alleged to be discriminatory. Whilje no in¬ 
junction could be given to restrain a criminal prosecution, complainants 
were entitled to a declaration of unconstitutionality. 

In Dowdy v. City of Covington, 237 Kv. 274; 35 S. W. (2nd) 304 
(1931), it was alleged that an ordinance requiring movers of property to 
register the names of persons whose property was being moved ijiad been 
interpreted to discriminate against resident movers, though thertp was no 
averment of an active purpose to indulge any such discrimination. 


be ap- 


a child 
States. 


Declaratory judgment was rendered that the ordinance should 
plicable to all classes of movers 

In Miller v. Currie, 242 X. W. 570 (Wis. 1932), it was held tljiat mere 
legal uncertainty as to jural relations gave a basis for declarator])' relief. 
The defendants there had merely stated that plaintiff was not 
of their father. 

This is the position taken bv the Supreme Court of the Unitet 
It has been held by that Court that the mere assertion that a tax is 
applicable to a given person, coupled with the demand for payment and 
the determination to enforce payment, constitute ground for a [declara¬ 
tion of immunity to the tax. Nashville Ily. Co. v. Wallace Con ptrollcr 
of Tennessee, 2SS C. s. 249 (1933). Likewise it has been helc that a 
declaration obtained by a city to validate a method of assessmert which 
had just been prescribed by statute, the judgment being obtained before 
any other steps whatsoever had been taken by any party, was res judi¬ 
cata of the rights of all parties in a later action by taxpayers to estab¬ 
lish contrarv conclusions. Fidelity National Bank fjr Trust Co. of Kan. 
City v. Swdpc, 274 U. K. 123 (1927). 

Sigal v. Wise, 114 Conn. 297, 158 Atl. 891 (1932), was an action to 
declare the rights of a lessee to space in a new building after a fire. 
The lessor had notified plaintiffs that the lease was at an end and had 
advertised his intention to rebuild and lease to a third party. If? might 
or might not have rebuilt in such a manner as to give plaintiff a right 
to reoccupy. Holding that a judgment should be granted, the Court 
said, at p. 893: 

“The remedy by means of declaratory judgments is highlk* reme¬ 
dial and the statute and rules should be accorded a liberal con¬ 
struction to carry out the purposes underlying such judgments. One 
great purpose is to enable parties to have their differences riuthori- 
tativelv settled in advance of any claimed invasion of rights, that 
they may guide their actions accordingly and often may be able to 
keep them within lawful bounds, and so avoid the expense, bitter¬ 
ness of feeling and disturbance of the orderly pursuits of life which 
are so often the incidents of law suits. Fully to carry out tie pur¬ 
poses to be served bv such judgments, it is sometimes necessary to 




8 


have jurisdiction in this case to enter a judgment de¬ 
claratory of the rights and powers of the Postmaster 
General under Section 3950 the remaining question is 
whether the granting of this relief will affect the 
United States by controlling its property or compel¬ 
ling it specifically to perform its contracts. 


determine rights which will :irise or become complete only in the 
contingency of some future happening. Even if the right claimed 
in this case is a contingent one its present determination may well 
serve a very real practical need of the parties for guidance in 
their future conduct. 

The foregoing case is typical of contract cases, in which the mere 
assertion that a contract is at an end. without active repudiation gives 
a right to a declaration that the contract is still in force. The case of 
Pacific States Corporal ion v. Pan American Hank of California. 213 Cal. 
58, 1 Pac. (2n'd) 4 (1031), held that a mere threat to remove fixtures 
against the claim of a landlord that the lease conferred upon it a lien 
on the fixtures was sufficient to ground a declaratory action to settle the 
right to remove,. While the State Statute was explicit that actual breach 
was not a condition precedent to the right to declaratory relief, the deci¬ 
sion was not put on that ground, and the rule is one of general appli¬ 
cation. 

Thus in Spcttabile Consortia v. Xorthumberlaml Shipbuilding Co. (C. 
A. 1919), 121 L. T. R. 02S, defendants notified plaintiffs that a ship¬ 
building contract was at an end, and counterclaimed for damages in a 
prior action by the plaintiffs. It was held that defendants’ conduct 
did not constitute a repudiation, but nevertheless entitled plaintiffs to 
a declaration that the contract was still in force. 

And in Harrison v. Walker. (1919) 2 K. B. 4.13. where it was held 
that defendant had not breached his contract to share a bungalow 
peacefully with plaintiff, plaintiff was denied a declaration of title to a 
half-share in the bungalow solely on the ground that defendant did not 
challenge that title. 

Mere notice of intention not to perform and a threat to demand arbi¬ 
tration was sufficient to give a right to a declaration in Hall v. Ever- 
sole's Administrators. 2.11 Ky. 29b, t‘»4 S. W. 2nd. 891 (1933). 

In Carolina Power 4 • Light Co. v. I si eg. Mayor, 203 X. C. 280, 1 *17 
S. E. 5b (1933), involving a bus and trolley franchise, the Court said: 

‘‘It is not required for the purposes of jurisdiction that the plain¬ 
tiff should allege or show that his rights have been invaded or vio¬ 
lated by the defendants, or that the defendants have incurred lia¬ 
bility to him. prior to the commencement of the action. It is 
required only that the plaintiff shall allege in his complaint and 
show at the trial that a real controversy, arising out of their op¬ 
posing contentions as to their respective legal rights and liabili¬ 
ties * exists * and that the relief prayed for will 

make certain that which is uncertain and secure that which is in¬ 
secure. ’ ’ 


9 


Upon proof of the facts alleged the Suprenje Court 
of the District of Columbia may enter a declaratory 
judgment against the defendant Farley in any br all of 
the following forms, among others; ' 

(a) The defendant Farley was without authority to 
impose upon the plaintiff any penalty or disability to 
bid upon or conclude any contract with the United 
States except after affording plaintiff notice jand an 
opportunity to be heard. 

(b) Defendant Farley was without authority to 
annul the contracts of this plaintiff except after afford¬ 
ing plaintiff notice and an opportunity to be heard. 

(c) Defendant Farley was without authority to im¬ 
pose upon plaintiff any penalty or any disability to bid 
upon or conclude any contract with the United States. 

(d) Defendant Farley was without authority to an¬ 
nul the contracts of this plaintiff. 

(e) The plaintiff has not entered or proposed to 
enter into any combination to prevent the making of 
any bid for carrying the mail and has made no agree- 
ment nor given or performed or promised to ^ive or 
perform any consideration whatsoever to indube any 
other person not to bid for any contract for carrying 
the mail. 

It is clear that in the entry of such a declaratory 
judgment there can be no issue of specific perform¬ 


ance against the United States nor of interference 


e with 


5 The mere fact that a declaratory judgment cannot be enforced 
against Farley is not a ground for denying such relief but rather ren¬ 
ders it peculiarly appropriate. Tims in Tirrcll v. Johnston , 80 X. II. 530 
(1931), the amendment of the prayer for relief was allowed on the 
point being made that a suit could not be maintained to enjoin a 
criminal prosecution, the court stating that in this class of case it would 
assume that the defendant would comply voluntarily with any judgment 
which might be entered. Sec also Erwin Billiard Parlor Co. if. Buck- 
tier, 156 Tenn. 27S (1927). 




10 


its property. 0 ' The Supreme Court of the District of 
Columbia has jurisdiction in this case to enter such 
a declaratory judgment against the defendant Farley, 
individually. Consequently this is not a suit against 
the United States. 


*• The discretion to refuse to render a declaratory judgment is a con¬ 
trolled discretion and does not exist in the instant case. The Statute 
provides that Courts of the United States “shall have power” to ren¬ 
der declaratory judgments and it has been widely held in other juris¬ 
dictions that there is a discretion to decline to render a declaration. This 
discretion, however, is a judicial one. 

Thus in Colson r. Program, IS- N. K. ID, 259 N. V. 370 (1932), it 
was held that the Supreme Court of New York County should have ex¬ 
ercised its discretion to decline jurisdiction in an action for injunction 
and declaratory judgment where the same question and parties were 
properly before the Supreme Court of Westchester County in proceedings 
for the appointment of a successor trustee. 

But aside from such obvious cases, the discretion does not empower 
a court to entertain or refuse to entertain a cause without going into 
the merits, but only authorizes it to enter a decree or not to enter a 
degree after the proceedings have gone far enough to make it possible to 
determine whether an entry of judgment would be appropriate. Miller 
v. Currie, supra. 

In Morccroft v. Taylor. 225 App. Pi\. 502 (First Department 1929). 
which was an action for a declaration that the plaintiff was the daughter 
of the defendant, the court said (p. 503): 


“The discretion exercised below and here reviewed is not con¬ 
cerned with plaintiff's ability to prove her case, with the exact 
pointing out . of future questions that may be determined by any 
adjudication herein, nor with the question of ultimate relief, if any, 
that may be given. We are concerned merely with the question of 
whether the plaintiff should be given an opportunity of attempting 
to prove the allegations of her pleading, and whether under any 
possible circumstances, if proven, the court should enter some judg¬ 
ment. If merely to prove the relationship, the present action, it 
seems to us. should be held to be maintainable bv tin* plaintiff * * *. 
It is to be observed that all of plaintiff’s possible legal rights that 
may come to her from defendant cannot now be specified. But this 
is no ground i for denial to her of relief to the extent of such rights 
as she is able to present.” 


In Xoubcck v. McDonald. 12S Mise. Rep. 70S, 220 N. Y. Sup. 701 
(1927>, it was likewise held that the Court’s discretion cannot be ex¬ 
ercised until such, time during the trial as the court can properly make a 
final determination. The court said (at p. 709): 

“The phrase ‘whether or not further relief is or could be 
claimed ? * ' ' would certainly indicate that a declaratory 

judgment might properly be asked and granted, in order to deter¬ 
mine. as is the purpose of this action, whether another action would 
lie. * * * the recital of a dispute between the parties and a 

prayer for relief constitute a vaiid complaint. * * * the com¬ 

plaint in this action, which sets forth the details of a dispute be¬ 
tween the parties to the action and requests a declaration of rights 



11 


II. 

i 

The Brief of the Appellee Ignores But Does Not Meet 
the Argument of the Plaintiff that a Suit td Enjoin 
the Threatened Imposition of a Penalty Which for 
a Period cf Five Years Will Prevent this Plaintiff 
from Bidding- or Contracting for the Carriage of 
the Air Mail is Not a Suit Against the United 
States. 


It is the content ion of this plaintiff that a suit to 
enjoin the defendant Farley from imposing a penalty 
without notice or hearing which precludes this plaintiff 
from bidding or contracting for the carriage of jtlie air¬ 
mail is not a suit against the United States, llhe fact 
of the threatened and actual imposition of this penalty 
is therefore fundamental to this case. It clearly and 
completely distinguishes it from the cases relied upon 
by the Government involving the rescission of contracts 
upon the discovery of fraud. The defendant elites no 
analogous cases. In all but four pages of his brief he 
ignores the allegation that the defendant threatens to 
impose this penalty upon this plaintiff. Throughout 

his brief defendant assiduouslv avoids the fact that 

•> 

after the commencement of this suit the defendant 
Farley in his advertisement for bids on temporary air¬ 
mail contracts actually imposed the threatened pen¬ 
alty and barred this plaintiff from bidding. 

The defendant summarilv dismisses the argument of 
the appellant that a suit to enjoin the imposition of this 

--- | - 

and other legal relations of the parties thereto, states fajets suffi¬ 
cient to constitute such a cause of action. The final exercise of 
the court’s discretion either to declare the rights and legal relations 
of the parties or to decline to pronounce a declaratory judgment, as 
provided in Rule 212 of the Rules of Civil Practice, cannot oo antic¬ 
ipated by a court at Special Term nor by the trial cour:, in ad¬ 
vance, and not until such time during the trial as the c|ourt can 
properly make such final determination. ’ ’ 




12 


penalty is not a suit against the United States by 
terming the imposition of this penalty “The Penalty 
Myth”. The fear of the imposition of this penalty is 
no myth. It is a fact. The defendant Farley has ef¬ 
fectively prevented this plaintiff from bidding or con¬ 
tracting for the carriage of the airmail. 

The defendant would have us believe, however, that 
this appellant has consented and agreed to the im¬ 
position of this penalty which bars it from bidding or 
contracting for the carriage of the mails. At page 31 
of its brief it states: 


“* * * The contracts of appellants were made 
upon the express condition that they would hold 
themselves ‘subject to all conditions imposed by 
the several Acts of Congress relating to 
postal service generally.* Their contracts, there¬ 
fore, expressly and of course impliedly, contain 
this provision (Section 3950) of the Revised Stat¬ 
utes, aiid are subject thereto. * 


But this argument clearlv confuses “conditions im- 
« • 

posed by the several Acts of Congress” and conditions 
which the defendant Farley has imposed in violation 
of the Acts of Congress or in violation of the Consti¬ 
tution of tliei United States. Surelv the defendant, is 

i « 

not serious in urging that the provision of the contract 
quoted above constitutes an agreement that the carrier 
will abide bv anv decision bv anv Government official 
whether or not authorized bv statute and even if the 

ft 

act would otherwise result in the deprivation of prop¬ 
erty without due process of law. 

The defendant disposes of the argument that a suit 
to enjoin the threatened imposition of a penalty is not 
a suit against, the United States bv the bald assertion 

C 1 1 ft' 



13 


. i 

that equity lias no power to grant such relief. He 


states: 


44 And lastly, in this connection, we submit that 
appellants have no standing in a court of! equity 
to complain in respect to the alleged disqualifica¬ 
tion, because they do not allege that they have 
submitted bids, that theirs were the lowest bids, 
that they complied with all the terms of the ad¬ 
vertisement, and were otherwise qualified to re¬ 
ceive the contracts, which were, without julst’iica- 
tion, refused by appellee. * * *” j 

This is a novel argument in a court of equity. In es¬ 
sence it is the argument that a court of equity lias no 
power to grant relief until the plaintiff has actually 
suffered irreparable damage by the imposition of a 
penalty. We conceive that a fundamental function of 
a court of equity is the prevention of threatened [irrep¬ 
arable damage. Under the decision of the Supreme 
Court cited at pages 50 to 58 of our main brief there 
can be no doubt that this jurisdiction of a court of 
equity may properly be invoked to enjoin the imposi¬ 
tion of a threatened penalty. If this plaintiff muslt wait 
until the penalty is actually imposed it will find itself 
in this position: Its bid for the carriage of the airmail 
will have been rejected. The permanent contracts will 
have been let to others. The value of its property will 
have been damaged if not destroyed for it is alleged 
that that property has value only in connection with 
revenue derived from the carriage of passengers and 
mail. (R. 17.) At such a stage of the proceedings a 
court of equity would find it impossible to afford ade¬ 
quate relief to this plaintiff. It is therefore respect¬ 
fully submitted that an injunction should lie to enjoin 
the threatened imposition of a penalty which for a 



14 


period of five years will bar this plaintiff from bidding 
or contractimr for the carriage of tlie airmail. 


III. 


The Case of Transcontinental & Western Airlines, Inc., 
v. Farley, Postmaster General, et al. 


In its main brief the Government declares that in the 
case of Transcontinental d'- Western Airlines, Inc. v. 
Farley, Post,>naster General, el al.. 71 Fed. (2nd) 288, 
(C. U. A. 2d), certiorari denied October 15, 1934, there 
“icas raised the identical question presented in the 
instant appeals . ” 

The [Transcontinental case, supra, is utterly differ¬ 
ent from the case presented by these appeals. If the 
statement quoted was intended to imply that the issues 
presented in the two cases are identical then the state¬ 


ment is without foundation. 

It is true that the case of Transcontinental <£ TlVsf- 
ern A irlines, Inc. r. Farleij, Post master General, et al., 
supra, involved airmail contracts which were annulled 
by the action of this defendant. The contracts were 
“annulled” at the same time that the defendant pur¬ 
ported to annul the contracts of this plaintiff. The 
Postmaster General declared that the contracts were 
annulled for the same reasons. As presented to the 
Court, however, the ' Transcontinental case is totally 
different from the case at bar. 

In the Transcontinental case the pleadings described 
two prospective defendants, James A. Farley, Post¬ 
master General of the United States, and John J. Kie- 
ly, Postmaster of Xew York, New York. Xo service 
was ever had upon the Postmaster General. Xo ap¬ 
pearance was ever entered in any court on his behalf. 



15 


The Postmaster of New York accepted servicp. The 

only defendant ever before the court therefore kvas not 

the Postmaster General of the United States jbut the 

Postmaster of the City of New York. 1 

•> 

In its decision in the Transcontinental case tike Cir¬ 
cuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit Infid that 
Postmaster General Farley was never served ahd that 
there was no jurisdiction in the District Court! to en¬ 
tertain an order affecting him. The Court alju) held 
that the suit must therefore be dismissed for v[’ant of 
an indispensable party. j 

In its brief in opposition to certiorari befdre the 
Supreme Court of the United States the Government 
took the position that “no leyal service was had upon 
Post waster General Farley . and since he was an indis¬ 
pensable part)), this suit was properly dismissed.” 
(Page 17) This contention is obviously correct. Since 
no effective relief could be had against anyone pxcept 
Farley it is clear that the case should have beejn and 
in fact was dismissed for the reason that an indispen¬ 
sable party was lacking. 

There is another fundamental distinction between 
the cases. In the Transcontinental case service? was 
had sol el v on John J. Kielv, Postmaster of New York. 
Obviously a court could not enjoin Kiely from “Jnnul- 
ling a contract” or “enforcing a penalty which Ifor a 
period of five years would preclude Transcontinental 
& Western Airlines, Inc. from bidding on any contracts 
for the carriage of the airmails.” This is true fojr the 
reason that the contracts were annulled and the, pen¬ 
alties imposed not by Kiely but by Farley. The only 
effective relief which the court could have granted as 
against the only defendant upon whom service had 
been obtained would have required Kiely to delivej* the 



16 


New York mails to the TWA planes. We are in entire 
accord with the contention which the Government made 
in the Transcontinental case that the granting 1 of this 
relief would necessarily have resulted in the specific 
performance of the Route Certificates and for that rea¬ 
son the suit was one against the United States within 
the meaning of Roper v. Wells, 246 l\ S. 335 (1618). 

The theory upon which these appeals rest is entirely 

different. We ask first that the defendant Farlev be 

* 

enjoined from imposing upon these plaintiffs the pen¬ 
alties provided by Section 3950 whereby for a period of 
five years this plaintiff is precluded from bidding on 
contracts for the carriage of the air mail. It is ob¬ 
vious that the granting of this relief will not affect 
any existing contract in any manner. It is also appar¬ 
ent that since the defendant Farlev is before the court 
the court has jurisdiction of the proper party. We pray 
secondly that an injunction issue to restrain the defen¬ 
dant from purporting to annul plaintiff's airmail con¬ 
tracts. Here, again the plaintiff does not ask that the 
United States specifically perform its contract. It does 
not ask that the mail be delivered to its planes nor that 
payment for its services be authorized. It merely prays 
that the defendant Farley be enjoined from unlawfully 
interfering with its contract with the United States. 
The granting of this relief would not affect any power 
of the United States to rescind the contracts for fraud. 


It may be that after a contract has been rescinded 

bv a duiv authorized agent of the United States the 
• * 

onlv remedv on account of the rescission is a suit in 
* • 

the Uourt of Ulaims although in this case the remedy 
bv declaratory judgment against the officer asserting 
the existence of grounds for rescission would seem to 
be peculiarly appropriate. But the brief of apppellee 


17 


i 

is in error in treating Parley’s order of annulment as 
an ordinary rescission of contract. The distinction be¬ 
tween the order of annulment issued in this case and 
the ordinary case of rescission by the United States is 
inadyertently pointed out by the appellee at page 32 
of his brief. It is there stated that “the disqualifica¬ 
tion to contract follows the annulment of the contract 
by direction of Congress.'” This is an express julmis- 
sion that the defendant Farley is not attempting jto res¬ 
cind the contracts under his general powers. Ip is an 
admission that he is attempting to annul the contracts 
under a section which authorizes annulment onlvl if the 
carrier is found to have conspired to defraud the 
United States by preventing contractors from bidding 
for the carriage of the airmail. It is an admission that 
he is attempting to annul the contracts under a para¬ 
graph which requires the imposition of a penalty which 
bars the carrier from bidding or contracting for the 
carriage of the airmails. Whatever the law njay be 
with reference to the discretion of an executive officer 
to rescind contracts of the United States upon the dis¬ 
covery of fraud there can be no doubt that he may not 
destroy the property of a contracting party by making 
public an ex parte finding that the carrier ha^ con¬ 
spired to defraud the United States and by imposing 
upon that carrier without notice or hearing a penalty 
which prevents it from acquiring property in the form 
of contractual rights. An order of annulment which 
lias its basis in such finding and leads to the imposition 
of such a penalty is in no way comparable with a simple 
order of rescission and the cases cited by the appellee 
are therefore not in point. The statute (Section 3950) 
in terms requires that before the contracts may be an¬ 
nulled, or the further penalty imposed, there must have 



18 


in fact been committed an offense thereunder. That the 
plaintiff did not in fact so offend is admitted by the 
Motion to Dismiss (R. 59). Even if it assumed for the 
purposes of the argument, however, that Section 3950 
impliedly authorizes the Postmaster General to make 
an administrative finding as to the existence of viola¬ 
tions thereunder, (the plaintiff does not so concede), 
clearlv he cannot be authorized so to do without first 
affording due notice and an opportunity to be heard. 
We submit that, in view of the admitted fact that the 
plaintiff did not violate Section 3950, was guilty of no 
fraud or collusion and fully complied with the provi¬ 
sions of its several contracts and route certificates, the 
laws of the United States and the rules, regulations and 
orders of the Post Office Department, the Postmaster 
General has no authority to impose these penalties or 

in anv event that he has no authority so to do without 
• » 

notice and hearing. 


R espoet fully submi11 ed, 


William J. Doxovax. 

Attorney for Appellants , 
1010 Shoreham Building, 
Washington, D. U. 

Frederick W. Jackson, 

Uarl E. Xewton, 

Theodore S. Hope, 

Ralstone R. Irvine, 

Of Counsel. 






ifeSPpSsp 




: L mt U. ' ■ ~~Ati4ru. 

■Iv'J•?' V ;v fe : * 


:h . .:.. r 0JTES> 

- ■■'<’■■ irtme 


OfyVoun#ef. 


















In the United States Court of Appeals 
for the District of Columbia 

April Term, 1934 

No. 6287 I 

I 

Boeing Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, 

appellant ' 

No. 6288 | 

National Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, 

appellant j 

No. 6289 1 

Pacific Air Transport, a Corporation, appellant 

No. 6290 

Varney Air Lines, Inc., a Corporation, et al., 

appellants 

v. j 

James A. Farley, an Individual, appellee 

supplemental brief for appellee 

_ j 

THE DECLARATORY JUDGMENT ACT IS NOT APPLICABLE 

Appellants suggest for the first time in their 
Reply Brief the applicability of the Declaratory 
Judgment Act approved June 14, 1934. Thib Act 

99059—34 (1) 



2 


is quoted in Appellants’ Reply Brief at Page 4. 
The final decree below was entered on June 6,1934. 
The Act was approved June 14, 1934. The appeal 
to this court was noted June 19,1934, and perfected 
June 20,1934 (R. 59). Therefore, if the appellants 
desired to convert their cases into suits for a declar¬ 
atory judgment, there was ample time for a motion 
to vacate the decrees and to reform the bills of com¬ 
plaint between the date of the passage of the Act 
and the date of perfecting these appeals. As it 
stands, the bills of complaint and decrees of the 
court are not based on an application for a declara¬ 
tory judgment. The Assignments of Error do not 
raise the point that the court erred in failing to 
enter a declaratory judgment. The entire record 
is silent on the question of a declaratory judgment. 
The brief in chief of the appellants is likewise si¬ 
lent on the question of a declaratory judgment. 
The question is first raised in the Reply Brief, filed 

on the 21st dav of November 1934. 

* 

We, therefore, submit that these appeals must 
be disp osed of on the basis of the record as made, - 
and on which the court below acted, and not on a 
newly discovered alleged basis requiring the refor¬ 
mation of the pleadings and prayers and the con¬ 
sideration and application of a statute not relied on 
below and not passed at the time of the entry of the 
decree. 

Phillips v. Moore & Hill, Inc., 51 App. D. C. 
349. 



3 


Lehker v. Joyce, 51 App. D. C. 35. 

Cooper v. Sillers, 30 App. D. C. 567. 

Cf. Georgia Casualty Co. v. Uoage, 61 L&pp. 

D. C. 195. | 

The Declaratory Judgment Law provides tl^at in 
cases of actual controversy the courts, on petition, 
shall have power to declare rights and other I legal 
relations of interested parties petitioning for a 
declaration, which declaration shall have the force 
and effect of a final judgment or decree, anc^ that 
further relief based on the declaratory judgment 
may be granted whenever necessary or proper, j The 
kind of a declaratory judgment that appellants de¬ 
sire is set forth on Page 9 of their Reply Bri|?f, as 
follows: That Farley was without authority im¬ 
pose any penalty except after notice and heating; 
that he was without authority to annul the con- 
tracts, except after notice and hearing; that he was 
without authority to impose a penalty and was 
without authority to annul contracts, irrespective 
of notice and hearing, and that the appellant^ had 
not entered into any combination to prevenjt the 
making of bids. The last mentioned is certainly 
not a declaration of rights as the statute requires- 
But if such a declaratory judgment were enlfereci, 
it would still be a judgment against the United 
States, and the court would be without authority to 
enter such a judgment or decree, for the reasons 
set forth in our brief already filed in these appeals. 
The Declaratory Judgment Law’ does not give any 



4 


•consent that the United States mav be sued for 
specific performance or for an injunction, and such 
a declaratory judgment as appellants suggest would 
actually be directed against the United States. 

Appellants furthermore have passed the stage 
where a declaratory judgment would be appropri¬ 
ate, assuming for argument that such a suit could 
be maintained, because they allege that the injury 
is an accomplished fact. The Declaratory Judg¬ 
ment Law was designed to bring about a determina¬ 
tion of rights and relations before the injury had 
been done, a preinjunction remedy, if such a term 
mav be coined. 

In the report of the House Committee on the 
Judiciary accompanying this bill (Report No. 1264, 
73rd Congress, 2nd Session) the’Committee said: 

Therefore this form of preventative re¬ 
lief is distinguishable from curative relief in 
that the latter is incapable of redress until 
an injury has occurred or the contract 
broken. * * * 

It is intended to save tedious and costlv 
litigation bv ascertaining at the outset the 

^ * o 

» 

controlling fact or law involved, thus either 
concluding the litigation or thereafter con- 
fining it within more precise limitations. If 
the meaning of a contract is controverted, 
for example, it may be needless to break it 
in order to obtain authoritative construc¬ 
tion of the instrument, thus saving time and 
cost. , These and other instances, together 
with the successful experience of the States 



5 


which have used the procedure, make it most 
desirable that this legislation should be 
enacted. 

Respectfully submitted. 

Leslie C. Garnett, 

United States Attorney, 

David A. Pine, 

Assistant United States Attorney, 

John W. Fihelly, 

Assistant United States Attorney, 

Attorneys for Appellee . 

Carl L. Ristine, 

Special Assistant to the Attorney General, 
Harry L. Jones, 

7 i 

Attorney, Department of Justice, 

Of Counsel . 


i 


U $. GOVERNMENT PRINTING OFFICE! J9S4 




