BUNA ALLE NABH RIAA LATE IE AER od nn et tet AERIS BOCA DS DASA EEE TR 


te 


LATER 


(37,268) 


SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 
OCTOBER TERM, 1932 


No. 571 : 


WILLIAM H. EDELMAN, STATE TREASURER; 
HARRY R. WESTON, STATE TREASURER; THE 
CITY OF CHEYENNE, ET AL., PETITIONERS, 


vs. 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC. 


ON WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT 
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT 


INDEX 
Original Print 
Proceedings in United States circuit court of appeals, tenth 


UE Daas heed his Rata alk tbe ahs 4: ois bie wae ES PTR bash a 1 
RMN 55.554 su vans wa ssl eBay 9 es0u ae (omitted in printing).. a 
Record from district court of the United States, District of 
INNS 5 ho ois y's ss aie cca 0 dd Oo 0d AS oe eine as BIE 1 1 
Sb re rn Sy ee (omitted in printing)... 1 
LA MUR a a csi pe PKs Fae bRSESD s bons Haak eae x 1 1 
Separate answer of City of Rock Springs.............. 13 iZ 
Separate answer of City of Cheyenne... ...........60005 17 16 
Separate answer of W. H. Edelman, State treasurer.... 30 30 
Supplemental bill of Complaint..........0cc cece eee ees 44 4s} 
Stipulation re filing of supplemental bill of complaint... 16 +) 


Order permitting filing of supplemental bill of complaint 
mnmaking Harry R. Weston, State treasurer, a party de- 


PRED ada ccdn cane bias chs seb anne eews ase ae has) ee 46 45 
Findings of fact, conclusions of law, and decree........ 47 46 
eo A eee | 60 

CN Sas tb eau sas pb0aeee ae ken ba bb aeas san eae es 61 60 


Jupp & DeTWEILER (INC.), PRINTERS, WASHINGTON, D. C., Fepruary 17, 1933 


| 


il INDEX. 
Original 
Testimony of Hugh Coffman............... oni eine on 61 
Teecrwnonys OF DB; Ook sie ca veces esses civsess 62 
Exhibit A—Certificate under which plaintiff 
carries muail..... pak aesas EVR LIOR Te G3 
Exhibit B—Contract between plaintiff and City 
of Rock Springs, including contract between 
City of Rock Springs and United States of 
Ce eee eee ere eS EEE ICT ee ny) 
Exhibit C—Contract between plaintiff and City 
of Cheyenne......... Er OPE ET Pere SO 
Exhibit D—Statement of plaintiff to State 
treasurer for month of September, 1930.... 91 
Testimony of Joseph A. Flynn... .....ee cece e eee eee 100 
Frank G. Caldwell......ccceccsscves 101 
William BB. Hore... .sccccvcsescccss ; 104 
DD. B. Colyer (recalled)...... Sau win kiss 105 
Charice , Mona... cccccvevcesvcecs 105 
F. M. Howard........ revere Peery er 105 
Ce) BEOHBGAY 5 ncc cscs seve crccssossee 107 
Order approving statement of evidence.............66. 10 
Petition for appeal. ......c.cccccccccsccscvcseceees uf 110 
Assignments of error.......-.- PCL RT CRT TREE NE ee 111 
Order allowing appeal........++ pa eae pen ok ere 115 
Bond on appeal, Note re........6- STP TY ee 116 
Citation, Note Tre@..ccccscccscvcces ee gee Payee pianaees 116 
recipe for transe ript ree ee ee OE Cre pivianweo 116 
Supplemental preecipe for transe ola Sheree ey ei eo W7 
Opinion, Kennedy, J......ccccccccccccssesccrscssceces 118 
Clerk’s certificate. .......00..6- (omitted in printing).. V1 
Appearances of counsel..........+4 (omitted in printing). . 33 
Order of submission............. PT eee Tee rT ye 4 
Opinion, Lewis, J........cccccvccececenscsscece ee saa V4 
BOBETOO ie sis 80 4410:0\08 yee RSP Pe Tee oe ee ai bikie oes 144 
Petition for rehearing.........+. ... (omitted in printing)... 144 
Order denying rehearing........cc-ssecccsceees Se eras 147 
Petition for clarification of decree... ........6- patecacatare Sach 147 
Order denying petition for clarification of decree.........-- 150 
Motion for stay of mandate........ccccccccccccsssceccecs 150 
Order staying mandate. .......0.ccceeeeeeeeeoees FA AES ie 151 
Clerk’s certificate..........0. HAAS (omitted in printing) 152 
Order allowing certiorari........ccccccrcccccccveseee sh 1 
PRES LPL REI EEE SEY EEE LE OO EGA SY TERE EISEN HEE ERM TS GSM 


Print 
61 


a2 


Pater. 


[fol. a] [Captions omitted] 


[fol. 1] 
IN UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 


No. 2049 


Borine Air Transport, Inc., a Corporation, Plaintiff, 
vs. 


Wiuuiam H. Epetman, State Treasurer; Harry R. WEsToN, 
State Treasurer; The City of Cheyenne, a Municipal 
Corporation; and The City of Rock Springs, a Municipal 
Corporation, Defendants 


Bitt or Comptaint—Filed Nov. 25, 1930 


Comes now the plaintiff, the Boeing Air Transport, Inc., 
and complaining of the said defendants, William H. Edel- 
[fol.2] man, State Treasurer, The City of Cheyenne and 
The City of Rock Springs, for cause of action alleges: 


1. That the plaintiff is a corporation organized and exist- 
ing under the laws of the State of Washington and duly 
authorized to do business of the kind which it is transacting 
as hereinafter alleged, in and through the State of Wyo- 
ming, and is a citizen and resident of said State of Wash- 
ington. 


2. That the defendant, William H. Edelman, is a citizen 
and resident of the State of Wyoming, and is an officer of 
the State of Wyoming, namely, the duly elected, qualified 
and acting State Treasurer st the State of Wyoming. 


3. That this action is a suit of a civil nature, and arises 
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, and 
the matter in controversy exceeds, exclusive of interest and 
costs, the sum and value of Three Thousand Dollars 
($3,000.00). 

Plaintiff further alleges and shows that this action is one 
in which said plaintiff seeks to enjoin the defendant, Wil- 
liam H. Edelman, a State officer of the State of Wyoming, 
from collecting an unconstitutional and illegal tax levied 


1—571 


ea 


ies ea 


Aiea ee 


a ae ai 5 


SERENE 


2 


and imposed by the State of Wyoming upon plaintiff in 
violation of Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article I of the Consti- 
tution of the United States, and that the value of the right 
of this plaintiff to transact interstate business and com- 
merce in and through the State of Wyoming, without being 
subjected to such unconstitutional, illegal and void tax, is 
far in excess of $3,000.00 exclusive of interest and costs. 
And plaintiff shows that unless the defendant shall be re- 
strained from the collection of such unconstitutional, illegal 
and invalid tax this plaintiff will be foreed to pay unto the 
defendant William H. Edelman such illegal and void taxes 
in an amount far in excess of $3,000.00 exclusive of interest 
and costs, in order to carry on its interstate business and 
commerce as hereinafter set forth. 


4. That this plaintiff is now and for a long time hitherto 
has been engaged in and intends to continue to carry on and 
transact interstate commerce and business, and is now and 
' for a long time hitherto has been engaged and intends to 
» continue to carry on and transact such interstate commerce 
and business in transporting passengers and express and 
United States mails by airplane for hire and profit, into, 
[fol.3] across and through the State of Wyoming from 
points outside the boundaries thereof and from points 
within the State of Wyoming to points outside the bound- 
aries thereof, and also a small amount of similar business 
from points inside the State of Wyoming to other points 
within said State, all of which is carried on intermingled 
in the same airplanes. 


%. That the fuel used in propelling the plaintiff’s air- 
planes is gasoline, and plaintiff knows of no other fuel 
which can be practically, conveniently or profitably used 
therefor; that the gasoline purchased by and delivered to 
the plaintiff and used by the plaintiff as fuel for the opera- 
~ tion and propulsion of its said airplanes in its commingled 
} intrastate business and commerce and interstate business 
and commerce cannot be apportioned between the said two 
classes of business. 


6. That the plaintiff owns, operates and maintains air- 
+ planes in interstate commerce and business as aforesaid, 
upon regularly defined routes and schedules, the motive 
power used by said airplanes, and each of them, being as 
aforesaid exclusively the use of gasoline as fuel. 


SO tal 


7 ea aaa GRAD Seibe LbTPR SEAADRPR SIDS AOS OANA REIN i! Pe PANS OPIS REE NOPE SEG ORIOE 


3 


7. That a part of such gasoline used by the plaintiff is 
purchased by and delivered to the plaintiff in the State of 
Wyoming; that a part thereof is purchased outside of said 
State, and that such gasoline purchased and delivered to 
the plaintiff either in or outside of said State of Wyoming 
is used and consumed by it as fuel for the propulsion of its 
said airplanes in its interstate commerce and business as 
aforesaid, and is an instrumentality of interstate commerce. 


8. Plaintiff further shows that in its said interstate com- 
merce business some passengers, mail and express are 
transported and carried in intrastate business, and in that 
connection plaintiff shows that the said two classes of busi- 
ness, interstate and intrastate, are so commingled that the 
separation of the one from the other is not reasonably prac- 
ticable and/or economical, and the plaintiffs’ interstate 
passengers, mail and express cannot be carried efficiently 
and economically in airplanes used exclusively in interstate 
commerce, nor can plaintiff’s intrastate passengers, mail 
and express be carried efficiently and/or economically in 
airplanes used exclusively in intrastate commerce, and that 
plaintiff's said interstate business is dependent in a con- 
[fol.4] siderable degree upon plaintiff’s intrastate busi- 
ness, and that plaintiff cannot profitably or economically 
use or operate separate airplanes in interstate business or 
separate airplanes in intrastate business. 


9. That by divers acts of the Legislature of the State of 
Wyoming, to-wit, Chapter 73 of the Session Laws of 
Wyoming of 1923, entitled ‘*An Act providing a license tax 
on gasoline, providing for the collection thereof, defining 
certain words or phrases, prescribing manner and methods 
of payment, fixing penalties for failure to make same, and 
providing for the disposition of said taxes’’; together with 
Chapter 89 of the Session Laws of Wyoming of 1925, en- 
titled ‘*An Act to amend and re-enact Sections 2, 3 and 5, 
Chapter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923, providing a 
license tax on gasoline and providing for the disposition of 
such license taxes, and display of price signs by dealers in 
gasoline and prescribing penalty for violation’’; together 
with Chapter 70 of the Session Laws of Wyoming of 1927, 
entitled ‘‘An Act to amend and re-enact Section- 2 and 3, 
Chapter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as amended 
and re-enacted by Sections 1 and 2, Chapter 89, Session 


z. 
a 
t 
: 


Rrra t 


NA aE NN ATO BIG ADP IY TN IRIE eh gh Fey 


4 


Laws of Wyoming, 1925, and to amend and re-enact See- 
tion 4 of Chapter 89, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1925, 
relating to display of price signs by dealers and providing 
a penalty for violation thereof; providing a license tax on 
gasoline and for the collection and statement of the amount 
of tax collected’’; together with Chapter 139 of the Session 
Laws of Wyoming of 1929, entitled ‘An Act to amend and 
re-enact Sections 2 and 3, Chapter 73, Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1923, as amended by Sections 1 and 2, Chapter 
70, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1927, and to amend and re- 
enact Section 5, Chapter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 
1923, as amended and re-enacted by Section 3, Chapter 39, 
(89?) Session Laws of Wyoming, 1925, and to amend and 
re-enact Section 6, Chapter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 
1923; providing for a license tax on gasoline, and for the 
collection and statement of the amount of tax collected; 
providing for the disposition of said taxes, and fixing 
penalties for violation of any of the provisions of this 
Act’’; and Chapter 14 of the Session Laws of Wyoming 
enacted at the Special Session, 1929, entitled ‘‘An Act to 
amend and re-enact Section 3, Chapter 73, Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1923, as amended and re-enacted by Section 2, 
[fol.5] Chapter 70, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1927, as 
amended and re-enacted by Section 2, Chapter 139, Session 
Laws of Wyoming, 1929, providing for a license tax on 
gasoline, and for the collection thereof and providing for 
statements of gasoline sold or used by wholesalers or users 
and the payment of the tax by them; and providing for the 
disposition of the tax from gasoline used on municipal air 
fields and fixing penalties for violation of any of the provi- 
sions of this Act’’; (each of which acts for convenience is 
quoted in full in an appendix to this bill of complaint), and 
by the construction and interpretation of the said acts by 
the defendant and by the State of Wyoming and its officers 
the said State of Wyoming imposed and levied a tax of 
four cents per gallon on each and every gallon of gasoline 
placed by the plaintiff, in its airplanes while within the 
State of Wyoniing, whether purchased or delivered to it in 
the State of Wyoming, or elsewhere, and on each and every 
gallon of gasoline put into the tanks of each of its airplanes 
within the State of Wyoming for consumption in propelling 
such airplanes in its commerce as aforesaid, and on each 
and every gallon of gasoline consumed by the plaintiff in 


5) 


the State of Wyoming in its aforesaid commerce, that 
under the provisions of said acts the defendant, Treasurer 
of the State of Wyoming, and his respective deputies, 
agents, servants, attorneys. workmen and other employees 
are charged with and exercise the duty of collecting and dis- 
bursing the said tax as therein provided; that under the 
said statutes the penalties and liabilities, civil and criminal, 
against the plaintiff, its officers and employees, for any 
failure in the payment of any tax demanded under said 
statute include among other things liability for double the 
amount of the tax, liability to injunction against the plain- 
tiff and its vendors, without bond, such as would prevent 
the plaintiff from obtaining any gasoline, liability to have 
appointed for the plaintiff a receiver for its property and 
its business, liability on the part of its officers and em- 
ployees to fine and imprisonment; that for a long time 
prior hereto the said defendant, State Treasurer, and his 
deputies, agents, servants, attorneys, workmen and/or 
employees have wrongfully and without authority of law 
required the said plaintiff to pay the said tax on each and 
every gallon of gasoline purchased or put into the tanks of 
its airplanes or used as aforesaid in the conduct of its said 
[fol. 6] interstate commerce and business, and that the said 
defendant, State Treasurer, and his respective deputies, 
agents, servants, attorneys, workmen and/or employees 
still require and threaten to continue to require the pay- 
ment of the said tax by the plaintiff, and will wrongfully 
and unlawfully continue to exact and collect the said tax 
from the plaintiff unless enjoined and restrained from so 
doing by order of this court; that the defendant, his 
deputies, employees and agents have already exacted from 
the plaintiff under the said statute, and the plaintiff to 
avoid on its own part and on that of its employees and of- 
ficers the great penalties, civil and criminal, denounced by 
said statutes, has paid to the defendant, William H. Edel- 
man, under proper and sufficient protest, the following 
sums for gasoline put into its airplane tanks at Cheyenne 
and used in the aforesaid commerce, to-wit: 


March 15, 1980 $424.08 
April 12, 1930 455.96 
May 10, 1930 651.68 


June 14, 1980 549.64 


i ON iain nneiiaiettitie, ) 
o> 


“SPT ROR IY 


apes Ss 


a 
fi 
BA 
# 
# 
ae 
= 
2 
a 


SPOR bec ET EN Caen Oe Ore 


6 

July 15, 1930.......... eee ai ee 666.24 
mee Gi Bee... ... 2... 55s. Ay 698.40 
September 11, 1930 _.. oad ess rile 724.48 
Cebemer 33, TOG0................ Saal 668.92 
November 15, 19380........... a ec ee 689.88 


And the defendant, his deputies, employees, agents, ete., 
have likewise under the said statute demanded and exacted 
from the plaintiff, and the plaintiff to escape the extreme 
civil and criminal penalties of said statutes, has paid to the 
defendant, William H. Edelman, under proper and suffi- 
cient protest, for gasoline placed in its airplanes at Rock 
Springs, used in such interstate commerce, the following 
sums, to-wit: 


March 15, 1930 $181.00 
April 12, 1930..... 240.28 
Cf ee sae . .... SeeBZ 
June 14, 1930 EP ot meee erg lin oes 275.00 
July 15, 19380 314.04 
August 13, 1930 322.32 
September 11, 1930 363.04 
October 13, 1930 o 395.60 
November 15, 1930 418.72 


[fol.7] 106. Plaintiff alleges that the said statutes of Wy- 
oming are unconstitutional, illegal and void in so far as 
they, or any or either of them, apply to plaintiff, for the 
reason that the same directly burdens and interferes with 
interstate commerce, and particularly for the reason that 
the said statutes as applied to plaintiff directly burden and 
interfere with the said interstate commerce and business of 
plaintiff in transporting and carrying mail, passengers 
and/or express in interstate commerce by air, and plaintiff 
alleges that the said tax is unconstitutional, illegal and void 
so far as it applies to plaintiff and its said business because 
it conflicts with, offends against and is in violation of Clause 
3 of Section 8 of Article I of the Constitution of the United 
States granting to Congress the exclusive power to reguiate 
commerce between the several states, in that the said stat- 
utes purport to impose and levy, and do impose and levy a 
tax on all gasoline purchased or consumed as fuel in Wyo- 
ming to propel airplanes flying between the said State and 


a 


SAT Se SA A AO RD 


neighboring States in interstate commerce, thus exacting the 
said tax as the price of the privilege of using an instrumen- 
tality of interstate commerce and thus evading the exclu- 
sive power of Congress to regulate commerce between the 
several States. 


11. Plaintiff further avers that the said defendant, the 
City of Cheyenne, and the said defendant, the City of Rock 
Springs, and each of them, are municipal corporations or- 
ganized and existing under the laws of the State of Wyom- 
ing and each of them is a citizen and resident of the State 
of Wyoming; that there is at each of the said municipal cor- 
porations a municipal air field, at each of which the air- 
planes used by this plaintiff land more or less regularly 
and more or less regularly are supplied with gasoline to be 
used as fuel in propelling its airplanes in interstate com- 
merce as aforesaid. 

Plaintiff alleges that the said statutes as construed by the 
defendants, and each of them, appropriate to the said de- 
fendant, the City of Cheyenne, all funds received from the 
said gasoline license tax on gasoline taken into the airplanes 
of the plaintiff at Cheyenne for use by the plaintiff in such 
interstate commerce and directs such fund to be paid over 
to the said City of Cheyenne, and likewise that all of the 
said taxes for gasoline taken into the plaintiff’s airplanes at 
[fol. 8] Rock Springs for use in the said interstate com- 
merce are to be paid to the said City of Rock Springs, by 
reason whereof the said defendant, The City of Cheyenne, 
is not only claiming the sums, and each of them, that have 
heen paid by this plaintiff to the defendant, Edelman, for 
gasoline so put into its airplanes at Cheyenne for use in 
said interstate commerce, but is also claiming that the plain- 
tiff he compelled to continue such payments indefinitely for 
the future; and in like manner the said City of Rock Springs 
is not only claiming the sums, and each of them, that have 
heen paid by this plaintiff to the defendant, Edelman, for 
gasoline so put into its airplanes at Rock Springs for use 
in said interstate commerce, but it also claiming that the 
plaintiff be compelled to continue such payments indefinitely 
for the future, and by reason of the said construction of 
the said statutes and the claims so as aforesaid made by 
and on behalf of the said City of Chevenne and of the said 


8 


City of Rock Springs, each of the said municipalities is a 
necessary party to the full determination of the constitu- 
tionality of the said statutes as so as aforesaid applied to 
this plaintiff ; and the said City of Cheyenne is a necessary 
party to any full settlement and disposition of so much of 
this cause as applies to the taxes already paid by the plain- 
tiff for gasoline placed in its tanks at Cheyenne and used 
in interstate commerce as aforesaid, and the said City of 
Rock Springs is a necessary party to any full settlement 
and disposition of so much of this cause as applies to the 
taxes already paid by the plaintiff for gasoline placed in its 
tanks at Rock Springs and used in interstate commerce as 
aforesaid. 


12. And plaintiff further shows that if the exactions made 
from the plaintiff as alleged herein be held to be exactions 
of ordinary taxation upon the gasoline as property owned 
by plaintiff, in order to produce revenues for public pur- 
poses, State, County and municipal, such taxation is illegal 
and void, in that it violates the second provision of Section 
28 of Article I of the Constitution of the State of Wyoming, 
which is in these words: 


, 


‘** All taxation shall be equal and uniform.’ 


And also violates Section 11 of Article XV of the Con- 
stitution of the State of Wyoming, which is in these words, 
to-wit: 


[fol.9] ‘‘All property, except as in this constitution 
otherwise provided, shall be uniformly assessed for taxa- 
tion, and the legislature shall prescribe such regulations as 
shall secure a just valuation for taxation of all property, 
real and personal.’’ 


For that as to all other personalty within the State of 
Wyoming the owner thereof under the provisions of See- 
tion 2762 of the Wyoming Compiled Statutes of 1920, is 
taxed only upon the value of so much thereof as is owned 
by such owner on the first day of April of the then current 
year, while on the gasoline used by plaintiff as aforesaid 
the said license tax exacted from this plaintiff, as herein 
averred, is levied upon all gasoline bought or used by plain- 


LLL LLL LLL LLL PEE PLDALEL EES IE TE SIRO a 


9 


tiff during the year, although the plaintiff did not on April 
1st, or on any other day, own as much as one-tenth part of 
the gasoline upon which the said tax is exacted as in this 
bill alleged. 

And, moreover, although the highest amount of the ordi- 
nary tax for all purposes levied upon other personalty in 
any year in Cheyenne or in the County in which it is 
located, or in Rock Springs or in the County in which it is 
located or at any other place in Wyoming, does not exceed 
four per centum of the value of such personalty, yet the 
license tax levied as herein alleged against the gasoline 
used by this plaintiff in interstate commerce, as herein 
shown, exceeds twenty per centum of the value of all gaso- 
line, not only all that owned by the plaintiff on any one day 
but twenty per centum of all of that from time to time 
bought or used by the plaintiff in its said interstate com 
merce business in Wyoming. 


13. And plaintiff further alleges that each an covery the 
payments of said tax by the plaintiff has been pad solely 
in order that the plaintiff might be permitted to continue to 
use gasoline in propelling its said airplane in such inter- 
state commerce and business and in order to avou! irrepa- 
rable loss and injury by the imposition upon the plaintiff 
and its officers, agents and employees of the penalties, civil 
and criminal, imposed by said Acts, each and every of 
which penalties the said defendant, his deputies, agents, 
assistants, servants, ete., has threatened and still threatens 
to enforce and each of which the said defendant personally 
and through his said agents, deputies, officers and assistants 
will enforce unless restrained and enjoined from so doing. 


[fol.10] 14. Plaintiff further shows that under the pro- 
visions of said statutes the wholesale distributors or con- 
signees of gasoline are made agents of the State of Wyom- 
ing for the purpose of collecting said gasoline tax, said 
agents acting under the direction of the de-defendant, State 
Treasurer, and while the said distributors and/or con- 
signees of gasoline actually collect, return and remit said 
tax to the State of Wyoming and to the defendant, the 
State Treasurer, said gasoline tax is in law and in practice 
levied and imposed against the consumer of said gasoline 
within the State of Wyoming and not against the wholesale 


%  —@ 


a 
s 
RSs. 
i 
oe 
3 
4 
a 
od 
‘S 
a5 
a 
be 4 
2 
4 
= 
4 
s 


Oty 
Sead dl 


Hie 
# 


) 


Betcvcce SE ee Lt Ca I DL oh OnE a 


10 


distributor or consignee, and such tax is paid by all such 
consumers, ordinarily direct to the defendant, the Treas- 
urer of the State of Wyoming, which said tax this plaintiff 
has been forced to pay in order to purchase or consume any 
gasoline in the State of Wyoming, and will hereafter be 
forced to pay until defendant, his agents, servants, em- 
ployees, workmen and other persons acting by and through 
him, are enjoined and restrained from collecting the same 
by order of this court. 


15. And plaintiff further avers that under the laws of the 
State of Wyoming relief by injunction is a remedy afforded 
all persons as a remedy to enjoin the enforcement and/or 
collection of any illegal levy of any tax, charge or assess- 
ment and of any proceedings to enforce the same, and fur- 
ther alleges that the remedy by injunction sought by the 
plaintiff herein alone will afford to the plaintiff complete or 
speedy relief; that the plaintiff has no adequate remedy at 
law; that the entire controversy involved herein can be set- 
tled in one suit in equity in which much time and ereat ex- 
pense will be saved and a multiplicity of suits prevented, 
and that such results cannot, nor can any reasonable relief, 
be obtained by any remedy at law, either in a single suit 
brought by the plaintiff, or otherwise. 

Plaintiff further avers that under the provisions of said 
statutes the distributors of gasoline, and each of them, are 
charged with the duty as agents of the State of Wyoming of 
collecting and returning the tax to the defendant the State 
Treasurer of Wyoming, and that the plaintiff in order to 
continue to operate its said airplanes in the conduct of its 
said business is compelled to purchase from time to time, 
and from day to day, large quantities of gasoline in the 
State of Wyoming, and that no such distributor or any 
[fol.11] other dealer in gasoline in said State will sell 
such gasoline to the plaintiff unless the plaintiff so pur- 
chasing the same shall make payment of the said tax levied 
and assessed thereon at the time of the purchase thereof, 
and that hence the plaintiff is unable to purchase any gaso- 
line in the State of Wyoming for the operation or propul- 
sion of its said airplanes without at the time paying the 
said tax thereon, and plaintiff alleges that by the express 
provisions of said Acts and/or by the practical operation 
thereof by the defendant and the legal effect thereof the 


said tax is absorbed in the price paid for all gasoline pur- 
chased in Wyoming for use or consumption in the said 
State by the purchaser, including this plaintiff, and that 
under the provisions of the said Acts the said tax, although 
required to be collected and returned to the State by the 
distributor of or dealer therein as the agent of the State, 
is both in practice and in legal effect a tax on the consumer 
of such gasoline and that unless the injunctive relief herein 
sought be granted the said interstate business of the plain- 
tiff herein will be daily and constantly burdened, inter- 
ferred with and damaged, to the great and irreparable in- 
jury of the plaintiff; that this plaintiff by reason of the 
facts hereinbefore and hereinafter set forth has no clear, 
adequate or complete remedy at law, and it will suffer ir- 
reparable damage and injury and be subjected to a multi- 
plicity of vexatious suits and litigation unless the enforce- 
ment and collection of the said tax in so far as it applies to 
gasoline purchased and/or consumed by the plaintiff in the 
State of Wyoming as fuel for the operation of its said air- 
planes in interstate commerce and business as aforesaid, is 
immediately enjoined and restrained by a temporary or 
interlocutory injunction granted by this court as prayed 
for herein, and unless upon final hearing the collection and 
enforcement of the said tax be perpetually enjoined and re- 
strained as herein prayed for. 

And plaintiff avers and shows that it has paid to the 
proper officers in Wyoming all taxes justly or properly due 
from it at any place within the State of Wy oming, both on 
its gasoline and upon all its other property in Wyoming, 
including the gasoline license tax on all gasoline used by it 
locally in Wyoming. 


11 


¥ 
3 
Es 
be 
& 
& 
hg 
‘ 
: 
#' 
oa 


Wherefore, plaintiff prays: 


1. That upon proper notice and hearing this court grant 
[fol.12] an interlocutory injunction restraining and en- 
joining the defendant, William H. Edelman, Treasurer of 
the State of Wyoming, his agents, servants, deputies and 
all others working under or through him as such State 
Treasurer, from the collection of said gasoline tax from 
this plaintiff during the pendency of this action. 


2. That upon final bearing of this cause it be adjudged 
and decreed by this court that the said Acts and statutes of 


12 


the Wyoming Legislature are unconstitutional, illegal and 
void as applied to this plaintiff and as applied to the said 
interstate commerce business of the plaintiff, and that the 
said defendant, William H. Edelman, as such State Treas- 
urer, and his respective deputies, agents, servants, attor- 
neys, workmen, employees and successors in office, be per- 
petually enjoined and restrained from exacting or attempt- 
ing to exact the payment of the said tax by the plaintiff 
and from collecting, or attempting to collect or enforce, 
said tax from the plaintiff on any such gasoline hereafter 
purchased and/or consumed in the State of Wyoming for 
such interstate commerce purposes, and that the defendant 
be decreed to pay the costs of this action, and that this 
court grant unto this plaintiff such other and further re- 
lief as the equity and justice of the case may require and 
which the court may deem meet and just, whether spe- 
cifically prayed for herein or not. 

John W. Lacey, Herbert V. Lacey, Attorneys for 

Plaintiff. 


Duly sworn to by D. B. Colyer. Jurat omitted in printing. 


[fol.13] (The appendix attached to the bill of complaint 
consisting of copies of Wyoming Statutes are omitted by 
direction of the appellant as unnecessary and needlessly 
encumbering the transcript.) 


In Unitep States District Court 


Separate Answer IN Equity or THE Crry or Rock Sprinas, 
A Muwnicrpant Corporation 


Filed Dee. 18, 1930 


To the Honorable, the Judge of the District Court of the 
United States, for the District of Wyoming, sitting in 
Equity: 


Comes now The City of Rock Springs, a municipal cor- 
poration, organized and existing under and by virtue 
of the laws of the State of Wyoming, and served with sub- | 
pena in the above entitled proceeding on the 27th day of 


4 
i 
3 er 


ISIGHT Sees 6 Nese RRO ITE RPL EPA PSS 


13 


November, 1930, as being one of the defendants in the above 
entitled proceeding, designated The City of Rock Springs, 
a municipal corporation, and for its separate answer to the 
bill of complaint in equity of the complainant in the above 
entitled action, admits, denies and alleges as follows: 


1. Admits that the plaintiff is a corporation existing 
under the laws of the State of Washington, and is duly au- 
thorized to do business in the State of Wyoming. 


2, Admits that the defendant, William H. Edelman, is a 
citizen and resident of the State of Wyoming, and is the 
duly elected, qualified and acting State Treasurer of the 
State of Wyoming. 


3. This defendant denies that the suit herein, or any 
cause of action stated in the plaintiff’s bill, arises under the 
Constitution and laws of the United States. 

This defendant admits that the amount in controversy 
exceeds Three Thousand Dollars ($3,000.00). 

This defendant admits that in the filing by the plaintiff 
of its bill of complaint herein, that it seeks to enjoin the 
defendant, William H. Edelman, as the State Treasurer of 
the State of Wyoming, from collecting the tax levied and 
imposed by the State of Wyoming upon the plaintiff, but 
this defendant denies that the said tax is either unconsti- 
tutional or illegal, or in violation of Clause 3 of Section 8 of 
{fol. 14] Article 1 of the Constitution of the United States, 
or otherwise, or at all. 


4. This defendant admits that the plaintiff is now engaged 
in the business of transporting passengers and express and 
United States mails by airplane for hire and profit, into, 
across and through the State of Wyoming, from points out- 
side of the boundaries thereof, and from points within the 
State of Wyoming to points outside the boundaries thereof, 
and is engaged in the similar business from points inside the 
State of Wyoming to other points within said State. 

And as to the averment that the plaintiff intends to con- 
tinue in the future to transact said business, this defendant 
has no knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief 
and therefore denies the same. 


5. This defendant admits that the fuel used in propelling 
the airplanes of the plaintiff at the present time is gasoline, 


aaa Xe = | 


14 


but as to the averment that the plaintiff cannot apportion 
and separate the amount of gasoline used upon its airplanes 
in intrastate business and commerce from interstate busi- 
ness and commerce, this defendant denies the averment. 


6. This defendant admits that the plaintiff owns, oper- 
ates and maintains airplanes in interstate commerce and in- 
trastate commerce, as averred in paragraph six of its bill 
of complaint, and that the fuel now used by said airplanes 
is gasoline, 


7. This defendant admits that a part of the gasoline used 
by the plaintiff in its said airplanes is purchased and de- 
livered to the plaintiff in the State of Wyoming. 


8. This defendant admits that some of the business and 
commerce of the plaintiff is transported in intrastate busi- 
ness, and some in interstate business, but denies that the 
said classes of business are so commingled that the separa- 
tion of one from the other is impracticable and/or uneco- 
nomical. 


9. This defendant admits that gasoline placed in the air- 
planes of the plaintiff at Rock Springs is for the months of 
March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October 
and November, as set forth in paragraph nine of the plain- 
tiff’s bill of complaint, but this defendant denies that the 
State Treasurer, his deputies, agents, servants, attorneys, 
[fol. 15] workmen, and/or employees, have wrongfully, and 
without authority of law, required the plaintiff to pay a tax 
of four cents per gallon on each and every gallon of gaso- 
line placed by the plaintiff in its airplanes while within the 
State of Wyoming. 

This defendant admits that the divers acts of the Legis- 
lature of the State of Wyoming are as set forth in said 
paragraph nine of the plaintiff’s bill of complaint. 


10. This defendant denies that the statutes of the State 
of Wyoming, and set forth in paragraph nine of the plain- 
tiff’s bill of complaint, are unconstitutional, illegal and void, 
in so far as they, or any of them, apply to the plaintiff in the 
gasoline placed by the plaintiff in its airplanes while within 
the State of Wyoming. 


11. This defendant admits that the City of Rock Springs 
is a municipal corporation organized and existing under 


rn 


15 


the laws of the State of Wyoming, and that said municipal 
corporation was at all times stated in the plaintiff’s bill of 
complaint, such corporation and that the plaintiff’s air- 
planes are more or less regularly supplied with gasoline at 
the airplane field of the said City of Rock Springs, and that 
all of the taxes for gasoline taken into the plaintiff’s air- 
planes at Rock Springs, are, under the law, to be paid to the 
City of Rock Springs, and that the City of Rock Springs 
is claiming for its use, all such taxes derived from said 
gasoline, so used. 


12. This defendant denies that the revenues produced 
from said gasoline taxation are in violation of the Consti- 
tution of the State of Wyoming, or at all, or that said tax 
upon gasoline is illegally assessed, or is not uniformly 
assessed. 


13. And as to the averment that the plaintiff will suffer 
irreparable loss and injury, by the collection of said gaso- 
line tax, or by the imposition of the penalties provided by 
law for the nonpayment thereof, this defendant denies the 
same, 

And as to the averment that the State Treasurer has 
threatened, and still threatens to enforce the penalties im- 
posed by the said acts of the Legislature, this defendant has 
no knowledge or information sufficient to form a belief, and 
therefore denies the same. 


[fol.16] 14. This defendant admits that under the pro- 
visions of the statutes, the wholesale distributors of gaso- 
line return and remit the gasoline tax to the State of Wyo- 
ming, and to the defendant, the State Treasurer, and that 
the said gasoline tax is levied and imposed against the con- 
sumer of said gasoline within the State of Wyoming. 


15. Said defendant, The City of Rock Springs, as and for 
its further answer to the bill of complaint of complainant, 
herein, states and alleges that it is without knowledge of 
each, or all, of the other facts and allegations contained in 
said complaint, not hereinbefore specifically admitted, de- 
nied or explained. 


Wherefore, said City of Rock Springs, served by sub- 
peena, as aforesaid, in the above entitled proceedings, prays 
for a judgment and decree of the court that said bill of com- 


16 


plaint be dismissed as to said City of Rock Springs, served 
by subpena, as aforesaid, and that said City of Rock 
Springs have and recover its costs herein necessarily ex- 
pended, and that the said City of Rock Springs have such 
other and further relief as may be just and equitable in 
the premises. 
T. S. Talliaferro, Jr., F. D. Johnson, Solicitors and 
Attorneys for City of Rock Springs, served with 
subpeena, as aforesaid. 


Duly sworn to by P. C. Bunning and Roy Connor. Jurat 
omitted in printing. 


{fol. 17] In Unitrep States District Courr 


SEPARATE ANSWER OF THE DEFENDANT, City or CHEYENNE— 


Filed Dec. 27, 1930 


Comes now defendant, City of Cheyenne, and for its 
answer to the Bill of Complaint of the plaintiff, as filed in 
the above court, admits, denies and avers as follows: 


1. This answering defendant, City of Cheyenne, admits 
the allegations of paragraphs one and two of the Bill of 
Complaint herein filed. 


2. This defendant, for its answer to Paragraph three of 
said Bill of Complaint, admits that this action is a suit of a 
civil nature; that the amount in controversy exceeds, exclu- 
sive of costs and interests, the sum and value of Three 
Thousand ($3,000.00) Dollars; denies that said action arises 
under the Constitution and laws of the United States; ad- 
mits that the plaintiff by this action seeks to enjoin the de- 
fendant, William H. Edelman, as a state officer of the State 
of Wyoming, from collecting a tax levied and imposed by 
the State of Wyoming vpon plaintiff; but denies that said 
tax, so levied and imposed is unconstitutional and illegal 
and denies that the imposition of said tax is in violation of 
Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the Constitution of the 
United States. For want of information sufficient to form 
a belief, the defendant denies that the value of the right of 
the plaintiff to transact interstate business and commerce 
in and through the State of Wyoming is far in excess of 


aia csemaiasieemiiimmaiians 

17 
Three Thousand Dollars, exclusive of interest and costs; 
denies that plaintiff is, by reason of carrying on its said 
business, subject to an unconstitutional, illegal and void 
tax. This defendant further admits that, unless restrained © 
by order of the court, the defendant, W. H. Edelman, will — 
collect from the plaintiff said tax, but denies that said tax 
is unconstitutional, illegal and invalid and denies that said ~~ 
[fol. 18] defendant will collect any illegal and void tax in _ 


the amount of Three Thousand Dollars, exclusive of in- i, 
terests and costs, as set forth in this petition. i 


3. This defendant, in answer to Paragraph 4 of Plain- : 
tiff’s Bill of Complaint, admits that for some time hitherto, _ 
plaintiff has been engaged in and has transacted interstate 
commerce and business in transporting passengers and ex- 
press and United States mail by airplane for hire into, 
across and through the State of Wyoming from points out- 
side the boundaries thereof and from points within the _ 
State of Wyoming to points outside the boundaries thereof 
and has transacted a smal] amount of similar business from 
points inside the State of Wyoming to other points within 
said State; but that for want of information sufficient to 
form a belief, denies that plaintiff intends to continue to 
carry on and transact interstate commerce and business in 
the State of Wyoming. Defendant denies that all of said 
business, as so set forth in said Paragraph 4, is inter- 
mingled in the same airplanes. 


4, The defendant, for answer to Paragraph 5 of Plain- 
tiff’s Bill of Complaint, admits that gasoline is used as fuel 
in said airplanes for the purpose of propelling the same; 
denies that gasoline purchased by and delivered to plain- 
tiff and used by plaintiff, as said fuel, for the operation and 
propulsion of its said airplanes cannot be apportioned be- 
tween the said two classes of business; and avers the fact 
to be that the gasoline purchased by and delivered to the 
plaintiff and used by the plaintiff as fuel for the operation 
and propulsion of its said airplanes can be apportioned be- 
tween the said two classes of business, for the reason that 
the gasoline has been and is being apportioned, under agree- 
ment between plaintiff and this defendant as is evidenced 
by the fact that the gasoline used by the plaintiff in its 


2— 571 


— PO La Ree ACNE 


18 


interstate business is being kept in one tank at its airfields 
at Cheyenne and Rock Springs, respectively; and the gaso- 
line used by the plaintiff in its intrastate business, is kept 
in another and different tank at its airfields at Cheyenne 
and Rock Springs; and has been since on or about March 
15, 1930; and the payment of the tax on the gasoline so used 
in interstate commerce and business has been paid sepa- 
rately and under protest since on or about said March 15, 
1930, while the payment of the tax on the gasoline so used 
in interstate commerce and business, has been paid sepa- 
[fol.19] rately and without protest, since on or about said 
March 15, 1930. 

Further answering the allegations of said paragraph 5 
of plaintiff’s Bill of Complaint, the defendant denies that 
said intrastate business and commerce and said interstate 
business and commerce are commingled and alleges the fact 
to be that the said intrastate business and commerce and 
said interstate business and commerce cannot be com- 
mingled. That for want of information sufficient to form a 
belief, denies that plaintiff knows of no other fuel which 
can be practically, conveniently or profitably used in con- 
nection with said business. 


5. The defendant, for answer to Paragraph 6 of said Bill 
of Complaint, admits that the plaintiff owns, operates and 
maintains airplanes in interstate commerce and business 
as aforesaid upon legally defined routes and schedules; fur- 
ther admits that the motive power by said airplanes, and 
each of them, being as aforesaid, is exclusively the use of 
gasoline as fuel. 


of 
Be 
i. 
om 
ix, 
| 
. 
x: 
# 
7 
% 
» 
me 
¥ 
‘ 
re 


6. The defendant, for answer to Paragraph 7 of Plain- 
tiff’s Bill of Complaint, admits that part of the gasoline 
used by plaintiff in its said business is purchased by and 
delivered to plaintiff in the State of Wyoming; admits that 
a part thereof is purchased outside of said state and that 
such gasoline purchased and delivered to the plaintiff 
either in or outside of said State of Wyoming is used and 
consumed by plaintiff as fuel for the propulsion of its said 
airplanes in its interstate commerce and business as afore- 
said and alleges that a part of said gasoline as purchased 
by said plaintiffs is used in its intrastate commerce and 
business. The defendant denies said gasoline, purchased 


ah as Te ag SS Re ras pit ere OIE Oh Pe agier ea 


~ 


” ee — — P PI ee et ae ee) re on cer 
ah ENGR TSAR NT ARN ACPI RAN Se VI PEM Tey eek * fe 


19 


and used by the plaintiff, is an instrumentality of interstate 
commerce, 


7. The defendant, for its answer to Paragraph 8 of plain- 
tiff’s Bill of Complaint, admits that in the said interstate 
commerce and business, some passengers, mail and express 
are transported and carried in intrastate business, but 
denies that intrastate business and interstate business are 
so commingled and denies that a separation of one from 
the other is not reasonable and practical; denies that they 
are commeingled and denies that plaintiff’s interstate pas- 
sengers, mail and express business cannot be carried 
efficiently and economically in airplanes used exclusively in 
interstate commerce and denies that plaintiff’s intrastate 
[fol. 20] passengers, mail and express can not be carried like- 
wise in airplanes used exclusively in intrastate commerce. 


8. The defendant, for his answer to Paragraph 9 of 
Plaintiff’s Bill of Complaint admits that by divers acts of 
the Legislature of the State of Wyoming, to-wit, Chapter 
73 of the Session Laws of Wyoming of 1923, entitled ‘‘An 
Act providing a license tax on gasoline, providing for the 
collection thereof, defining certain words or phrases, pre- 
scribing manner and methods of payment, fixing penalties 
for failure to make same, and providing for the disposition 
of said taxes;’’ together with Chapter 89 of the Session 
Laws of Wyoming of 1925, entitled ‘‘An Act to amend and 
re-enact Sections 2, 3 and 5, Chapter 73 Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1923, providing a license tax on gasoline and 
providing for the disposition of such license taxes, and dis- 
play of price signs by dealers in gasoline and prescribing 
penalty for violation’’; together with Chapter 70 of the 
Session Laws of Wyoming of 1927, entitled ‘‘An Act to 
amend and re-enact Sections 2 and 3, Chapter 73, Session 
Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as amended and re-enacted by 
Sections 1 and 2, Chapter 89, Session Laws of Wyoming, 
1925, and to amend and re-enact Section 4 of Chapter 89, 
Session Laws of Wyoming, 1925, relating to display of 
price signs by dealers and providing a penalty for violation 
thereof; providing a license tax on gasoline and for the 
collection and statement of the amount of tax collected’’; 
together with Chapter 139 of the Session Laws of Wyoming 
of 1929, entitled ‘‘An Act to amend and re-enact Sections 2 
and 3, Chapter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as 


SRW Pra 


AGAR RD Site 


Pistosiaintknmun inten man 


SN: BE nO AINA SERA IFLA IY LE ENGR EIR SAS Eh 


20 


amended by Sections 1 and 2, Chapter 70, Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1927, and to amend and re-enact Section 5, Chap- 
ter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as amended and re- 
enacted by Section 3, Chapter 39. (397) Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1925, and to amend and re-enact Section 6, Chap- 
ter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923; providing for a 
license tax on gasoline, and for the collection and statement 
of the amount of tax collected; providing for the disposi- 
tion of said taxes, and fixing penalties for violation of any 
of the provisions of this Act’’; and Chapter 14 of the Ses- 
sion Laws of Wyoming enacted at the Special Session, 1929, 
entitled ‘‘An Act to amend and re-enact Section 3, Chapter 
73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as amended and re-en- 
[fol. 21] acted by Section 2, Chapter 70, Session Laws of 
Wvoming, 1927, as amended and re-enacted by Section 2, 
Chapter 139, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1929, providing 
for a license tax on gasoline, and for the collection thereof 
and providing for statements of gasoline sold or used by 
wholesalers or users and the payment of the tax by them; 
and providing for the disposition of the tax from gasoline 
used on municipal air fields and fixing penalties for viola- 
tion of any of the provisions of this Act; and by the con- 
struction and interpretation of the said acts by the defend- 
ant and by the State of Wyoming and its officers the said 
State of Wyoming imposed and levied a tax of four cents 
per gallon on each and every gallon of gasoline placed by 
the plaintiff, in its airplanes while within the State of 
Wyoming, whether purchased or delivered to it in the State 
of Wyoming, or elsewhere, and on each and every gallon of 
gasoline put into the tanks of each of its airplanes within 
the State of Wyoming for consumption in propelling such 
airplanes in its commerce as aforesaid, and on each and 
every gallon of gasoline consumed by the plaintiff in the 
State of Wyoming in its aforesaid commerce; that under 
the provisions of said acts the defendant, Treasurer of the 
State of Wyoming, and his respective deputies, agents, 
servants, attorneys, workmen and other employees are 
charged with and exercise the duty of collecting and dis- 
bursing the said tax as therein provided; that under the 
said statutes the penalties and liabilities, civil and criminal, 
against the plaintiff, its officers and employees for any 
failure in the payment of any tax demanded under said 
statute include among other things liability for double the 


phased 


a a 


TRNAS ARERR IICG ITE BEA IE LEAN IRE TAOS MERLE VTE TEN BEALE OTE NELSON SLE MEI 


21 


amount of the tax, liability to injunction against the plain- 
tiff and its vendors, without bonds, such as would prevent 
the plaintiff from obtaining any gasoline, liability to have 
appointed for the plaintiff a receiver for its property and 
its business, liability on the part of its officers and em- 
ployees to fine and imprisonment; denies that for a long 
time prior hereto the said defendant, State Treasurer, and 
his deputies, agents, servants, attorneys, workmen and/or 
employees have wrongfully and without authority of law 
required the said plaintiff to pay the said tax on each and 
every gallon of gasoline purchased or put into the tanks of 
its airplanes or used as aforesaid in the conduct of its said 
interstate commerce and business; admit that the said 
defendant, State Treasurer, and his respective deputies, 
[fol.22] agents, servants, attorneys, workmen and/or em- 
ployees still require and threaten to continue to require the 
payment of the said tax by the plaintiff; deny that the State 
Treasurer, and his respective deputies, agents, servants, 
attorueys, workmen and/or employees will wrongfully and 
unlawfully continue to exact and collect the said tax from 
the plaintiff unless enjoined and restrained from so doing 
by order of this court; admit that the defendant, his 
deputies, employees, and agents have already exacted from 
the plaintiff under the said statute, and the plaintiff to 
avoid on its own part and on that of its employees and of- 
ficers the great penalties, civil and criminal, denounced by 
said statutes, has paid to the defendant, William H. Edel- 
man, the following sums for gasoline put into its airplane 
tanks at Cheyenne and used in the aforesaid commerce, 
to-wit: 


ee ry es eee $424.08 
April 13, 1900...... Re PAE Rina Hy hee .... 455.96 
ot IRAE ett iat eet vos Eo 651.68 
ek... eS Sie Piel ee et eee as eo 549.64 
2 50 AR EAs Tae eRe Wnt ee he, | 666.24 
NE 020 rh okie rd 8 ed ee 698.40 
September 11, 1930 elena rr 
October 13, 1990........... acta i ate ae 
mevemenen Thy SOGW. 20). 689.88 


Admit that said payments were made under protest; admit 
that the defendant, his deputies, employees, agents, etc., 


22 


have likewise under the said statute demanded and exacted 
from the plaintiff, and the plaintiff to escape the extreme 
civil and criminal penalties of said statutes, has paid to the 
defendant, William H. Edelman, for gasoline placed in its 
airplanes at Rock Springs, used in such interstate com- 
merce, the following sums, to-wit: 


March 15, 1930................ ee a _. $181.00 
Se eee Na cs LU we deen 45 240.28 
eR th a a i aan a Ne ... 256.32 
I ics ow ots a dase See 
ouay Eh, Weee........... ee uel wake Oe 314.04 
0 Fg vec ce A ss wc ke ee hv aoe 322.32 
Mepeemmer 33, BO08............................ 363.04 
RE Ce --+-... ee 
November 15, 1990......................... ... 448.72 


admit that said payments were made under protest. 


[fol. 23] 9. The defendant, in answer to Paragraph 10 of 
Plaintiff’s Bill of Complaint, denies that the said statutes 
of Wyoming are unconstitutional, illegal and void in so far 
as they, or any or either of them, apply to plaintiff, and 
deny that the same directly burdens and interferes with 
interstate commerce, and deny that the said statutes as 
applied to plaintiff directly burdens and interferes with 
the said interstate commerce and business of plaintiff in 
transporting and carrying mail, passengers and/or express 
in interstate commerce by air; denies that the said tax is 
unconstitutional, illegal and void so far as it applies to 
plaintiff and its said business, and denies that said tax con- 
flicts with, offends against and is in violation of Clause 3 
of Section 8 of Article I of the Constitution of the United 
States granting to Congress the exclusive power to regu- 
late commerce between the several states, and denies that 
the said statutes purport to impose and levy, and denies 
that said statutes do impose and levy a tax on all gasoline 
purchased or consumed as fuel in Wyoming to propel air- 
planes flying between the said State and neighboring States 
in interstate commerce, and denies that said tax is enacted 
as the price of the privilege of using an instrumentality of 
interstate commerce and thus evading the exclusive power 
of Congress to regulate commerce between the several 
states. 


: ab in RB PRE ERIE, PME BLEEDING CEL OE +d 
& 
£ 

230 

10. The defendant, for answer to Paragraph 11 of Plain- | 
tiff’s Bill of Complaint, admits that the City of Cheyenne, — 
and the said defendant, the City of Rock Springs, and each | 


of them, are municipal corporations organized and existing 
- under the laws of the State of Wyoming and each of them 
is a citizen and resident of the State of Wyoming; that there 
is at each of the said municipal! corporations a municipal 
air field, at each of which the airplanes used by the plain- 
tiff land more or less regularly and more or less reguiarly 
are supplied with gasoline to be used as fuel in propelling 
its airplanes in interstate commerce as aforesaid. Defend- 
ant admits that the said statutes as construed by the de- 
fendants, and each of them, appropriate to this defendant, 
the City of Cheyenne, all funds received from the said gas- 
oline license tax on gasoline taken into the airplanes of the 
plaintiff at Cheyenne for use by the plaintiff in such inter- 
state ecommerce, and admits that such statutes direct such 
fund to be paid over to the said City of Cheyenne, and like- 
[fol. 24] wise that all of the said taxes for gasoline taken 
into the plaintiff’s airplanes at Rock Springs for use in 
the said interstate commerce are to be paid to the said City 
of Rock Springs, by reason whereof this defendant, The 
City of Cheyenne, is not only claiming the sums, and each 
of them that have been paid by this plaintiff to the defend- 
ant, Edelman, for gasoline so put into its airplanes at 
Cheyenne for use in said interstate commerce, but is also 
claiming that the plaintiff be compelled to continue such 
payments indefinitely for the future; and in like manner 
the said City of Rock Springs is not only claiming the 
sums, and each of them, that have been paid by this plain- 
tiff to the defendant, Edelman, for gasoline so put into its 
airplanes at Rock Springs for use in said interstate com- 
merce, but is also claiming that the plaintiff be compelled 
to continue such payments indefinitely for the future, and 
by reason of the said construction of the said statutes and 
the claims so as aforesaid made by and on behalf of the 
said City of Cheyenne and of the said City of Rock Springs, 
each of the said municipalities is a necessary party to the 
full determination of the constitutionality of the said stat- 
utes as aforesaid applied to this plaintiff; and the said 
City of Cheyenne is a necessary party to any full settle- 
ment and disposition of so much of this cause as applies to 


4 
& 
7 
Rs 
¥ 
i 
. 
“ 


8 AeA APOE TBH ER LALO 


the taxes already paid by the plaintiff for gasoline placed 
in its tanks at Cheyenne and used in interstate commerce 
as aforesaid, and the said City of Rock Springs is a neces- 
sary party to any full settlement and disposition of so much 
of this cause as applies to the taxes already paid by the 
plaintiff for gasoline placed in its tanks at Rock Springs 
and used in interstate commerce as aforesaid. 


11. The defendant, for its answer to Paragraph 12 of 
plaintiff’s Bill of Complaint, denies that if the exactions 
made from the plaintiff, as in said petition alleged, be 
held to be exactions of ordinary taxation upon the gaso- 
line, as property owned by plaintiff, in order to produce 
revenue for public purposes, State, County and municipal, 
that such taxation would be illegal and void as violating 
the second provision of Section 28 of Article 1 of the Con- 
stitution of the State of Wyoming, which is in the following 
words: 


‘All taxation shall be equal and uniform.”’ 


and denies that such taxation is illegal and void as violating 
Section 11 of Article 13 of the Constitution of the State of 
Wyoming, which is in the following words: 


[fol.25] ‘All property, except as in this constitution 
otherwise provided, shall be uniformly assessed for taxa- 
tion, and the legislature shall prescribe such regulations as 
shall secure a just valuation for taxation of all property, 
real and personal.’’ 


denies that said tax upon gasoline, as property owned by the 
plaintiff, is illegal and void because as to all other person- 
alty within the State of Wyoming, the owner thereof, under 
the provisions of Section 2762, Wyoming Compiled Stat- 
utes, 1920, is taxed only upon the value of so much thereof 
as is owned by such owner on the first day of April of the 
then current year, while on the gasoline used by plaintiff as 
aforesaid the said license tax exacted from this plaintiff, as 
herein averred, is levied upon all gasoline bought or used 
by plaintiff during the year, although the plaintiff did not 
on April Ist, or on any other day, own as much as one-tenth 


part of the gasoline upon which the said tax is exacted as 
in this bill alleged. 


ELPA LPN EDITIONS 


i] 
qu 


Defendant admits that the highest amount of the ordinary 
tax for all purposes levied upon other personalty in any 
year in Cheyenne or in the county in which it is located, or 
in Rock Springs or in the county it is located or at any 
place in Wyoming, does not exceed four per centum of the 
value of such personalty, but denies the license tax levied 
against the gasoline used by this plaintiff in interstate com- 
merce, exceeds twenty per centum of the value of all gaso- 
line, not only on all that owned by the plaintiff on any one 
day but twenty per centum of all of that from time to time 
bought or used by the plaintiff in its said interstate com- 
merce business in Wyoming, and denies that said license 
tax exacted from said plaintiff is illegal and void by reason 
thereof. 


12. The defendant for its answer to Paragraph 13 of 
Plaintiff’s Bill of Complaint, denies that each and every of 
the payments of said tax by the plaintiff has been paid 
solely in order that the plaintiff might be permitted to con- 
tinue to use gasoline in propelling its said airplanes in such 
interstate commerce and business and in order to avoid 
irreparable loss and injury by the imposition upon the 
plaintiff and its officers, agents and employees of the pen- 
alties, civil and criminal, imposed by said acts, each and 
every of which penalties the defendant, Edelman, his depu- 
ties, agents, assistants, servants, ete., has threatened and 
still threatens to enforce and each of which the said defend- 
[fol. 26] ant personally and through his said agents, depu- 
ties, officers and assistants will enforce unless restrained 
and enjoined from so doing. 


13. The defendant, for answer to Paragraph 14 of plain- 
tiff’s Bill of Complaint, denies that under the provisions of 
said statutes the wholesale distributors or consignees of 
gasoline are made agents of the State of Wyoming for the 
purpose of collecting said gasoline tax, said agents acting 
under the direction of the defendant, State Treasurer, and 
while the said distributors and/or consignees of gasoline 
actually collect, return and remit said tax to the State of 
Wyoming and to defendant, the State Treasurer, and de- 
nies that said gasoline tax is in law and in practice levied 
and imposed against the consumer of said gasoline within 
the State of Wyoming and not against the wholesale dis- 


: 


PLETELY ERP OR 


wie GE, 


LIL RA ABLE GORD DUE HWE 


26 


tributor or consignee, and such tax is paid by all such con- 
sumers, ordinarily direct to the defendant, the Treasurer 
of the State of Wyoming; and admits that said plaintiff has 
paid said tax in order to purchase or consume any gasoline 
in the State of Wyoming, and will hereafter be forced to 
pay until said defendant, his agents, servants, employees, 
workmen and other persons acting by and through him, 
are enjoined and restrained from collecting the same by 
order of this court. 


14. The defendant, for its answer to Paragraph 15 of 
Plaintiff’s Bill of Complaint, admits that under the laws 
of the State of Wyoming relief by injunction is a remedy 
afforded all persons as a remedy to enjoin the enforcement 
and/or collection of any illegal levy or any tax, charge or 
assessment and of any proceedings to enforce the same, 
and further alleges that the remedy by injunction sought 
by the plaintiff herein alone will afford to the plaintiff com- 
plete or speedy relief; that the plaintiff has no adequate 
remedy at law; that the entire controversy involved herein 
can be settled in one suit in equity in which much time 
and great expense will be saved and multiplicity of suits 
prevented, and that such results cannot, nor can any rea- 
: sonable relief, be obtained by any remedy at law, either 
E in a single suit brought by the plaintiff, or otherwise. 

The defendant denies that under the provisions of said 
> statutes the distributors, of such gasoline, and each of them 
: is charged with the duty, as agents of the State of Wyo- 
‘ ming, of collecting and returning the tax to defendant, State 
of Wyoming; admits that the plaintiff in order to continue 
[fol. 27] to operate its said airplanes in the conduct of its 
said business purchases from time to time and from day 
to day large quantities of gasoline in the State of Wyoming 
and that no such distributor or any other dealer in gasoline 
in said state will sell such gasoline to the plaintiff unless 
the plaintiff so purchasing the same shall make payment of 
said tax levied and assessed thereon at the time of the pur- 
chase thereof; and admits that plaintiff is unable to pur- 
chase any gasoline in the State of Wyoming for the opera- 
tion or propulsion of its said airplanes without at the time 
paying the said tax thereon, and plaintiff alleges that by 
the express provisions of said acts and/or by the practical 
operation thereof and the legal effect thereof the said tax 


“ Bais 8 pete aan 8 i ‘. TT ere ee sa 
aa Un 2 oh ie toh gar tt ath eet eee } ; 


Oe 


EG STN eye ME 
Bees 


27 


is absorbed in the price paid for all gasoline purchased in 
Wyoming for use or consumption in the said state by the 
purchaser, including this plaintiff; and denies that under 
the provisions of said act the said tax, as so collected and 
returned to the state by the distributor of or dealer therein 
is both in practice and in legal effect a tax on the consumer 
of such gasoline; and denies that unless the injunctive re- 
lief herein sought by the plaintiff be granted the said inter- 
state business of the plaintiff herein will be daily and con- 
stantly burdened, interfered with and damaged to its great 
and irreparable injury; and denies that by reason of the 
facts, as set forth in plaintiff’s petition, it has no clear, 
adequate or complete remedy at law and denies that it will 
suffer irreparable damage and injury and be subject to a 
multiplicity of vexatious suits and litigation unless the en- 
forcement and collection of said tax insofar as it applies to 
gasoline purchased and/or consumed by the plaintiff 
in the State of Wyoming as fuel for the operation of its said 
airplanes in interstate commerce and business, as afore- 
said, is immediately enjoined and restrained by a tem- 
porary or interlocutory injunction granted by this court, as 
prayed for in plaintiff’s petition, and unless defendant be 
upon final hearing of said cause perpetually enjoined and 
restrained from the collection and enforcement of said tax. 

Defendant admits that the plaintiff has paid to the proper 
officers in Wyoming all license taxes justly and properly 
due from it upon all gasoline used by it locally in Wyoming. 


Tete ae 


15. This answering defendant, City of Cheyenne, further 
alleges that on July Ist, 1929, it entered into a written 
[fol. 28] agreement with plaintiff, a true copy of which 
agreement it attached hereto, marked Exhibit A and made 
a part hereof by this reference; that by said agreement this 
defendant leased to the plaintiff for a term of 25 years the 
four hangars and control] house, belonging to the City, lo- 
cated on said field, at an annual rental of $3,000 and also a 
rectangular tract of land, known as ‘‘hangar space,’’ 200 
feet in depth and 700 feet in width, in the vicinity of the 
buildings heretofore mentioned for the purpose of provid- 
ing space for the erection of further buildings; that the 
City also leased to said Company certain taxi-ways and 
hangar space for the sum of $1,050.00. 


RECAP MES LE III OPI EL 


28 


16. It was further agreed in said contract that the City 
was to keep up the field as a suitable, well regulated air- 
plane landing field for the use of any and all planes of 
plaintiff, without any rental charge; that plaintiff was given 
the right to superintend, manage and operate the said field 
on behalf of defendant for not to exceed 12 years, employ- 
ing a superintendent and caretakers; that the plaintiff com- 
pany, under the direction of defendant should superintend 
the maintenance, and up-keep of the field and actually per- 
form such maintenance, grading, dragging and leveling of 
the field and the repair of the lighting equipment, the City 
paying the actual cost thereof and the additional sum of 
$2,400 a year for all other services performed by plaintiff ; 
that the defendant City agreed to assist in providing police 
necessary to enforce the City regulations, governing the 
use of the field and bound itself to expenditure of large 
amounts each vear to maintain said field as one of the out- 
standing air ports of the West; that during the year 1930, 
the budget of the defendant City for its share of the ex- 
penses under said agreement was $6,650, which budget has 
proven inadequate for the many expenditures which the 
City has made in carrying out its covenants in said agree- 
mnt; that for the superintendant’s salary this defendant 
has paid $2,400; flood and beacon lights $316.03: for bound- 
ary lights $382.42; for the weather bureau $251.04; for mov- 
ing lights $562.50; for grading $1,607.50: and miscellaneous, 
an expenditure of $1,153.21; a total expenditure of $6,845.48 
up to the date of the filing of this answer; that the appro- 
priations and expenditures of the defendant City of Chey- 
enne have increased each year and are as follows: 


[fol. 29] Budget Budget 
Year appropriations expenditures 
1927 $500.00 $452.40 
1928 7,000.00 7,602.37 
1929 8,000.00 9,508.12 


that such expenditures were made largely at the request of 
plaintiff and for its benefit; that such disbursements are 
made possible through the assistance of the gas tax com- 
plained of herein. 


17. This defendant alleges that Chapter 14, Session Laws 
of Wyoming, 1929, enacted at the Special Session of the 


ERMA I 8 ASR HAE 


29 


Wyoming State Legislature, provided that the defendant 
State Treasurer should ‘‘pay over all funds received from 
the gasoline license tax on gasoline used at any municipal 
oir field to the City or Town where such air field is located 
to ve used for the maintenance and improvement of such 
air field;’’ that this answering defendant has received from 
said State Treasurer less than the amount set forth on 
Page Six of plaintiff’s Bill of Complaint and received ap- 
proximately up to this time $2,850.00; that all funds so re- 
ceived from the State Treasurer under the provisions of 
the statute set forth in this paragraph have been used 
solely and exclusively for the maintenance and develop- 
ment of said air port, or for the use and benefit of plaintiff 
herein; that no part of said tax on gasoline has been ap- 
propriated for any other purpose than the benefit of said 
air port and of plaintiff herein; that without the assistance 
of said funds received from the defendant State Treasurer 
it would be impossible to maintain and improve the air 
port, which is continually used by plaintiff, and that no 
part of “be tax of which plaintiff complains, becomes avail- 
able { uy other fund of the City than that of the air port 
fund now carried separately on books of the City Treas- 
urer and that no citizen of this Defendant City or of the 
State of Wyoming directly receives the benefit of said tax 
or any part thereof, 


Wherefore, this defendant respectfully prays that the 
relief herein asked by the plaintiff be denied; that the col- 
lection of license tax upon the gasoline purchased and/or 
used by the plaintiff in its intrastate commerce and busi- 
ness and its interstate commerce and business in accord- 
fol. 30] ance with the provisions of the statutes of the 
State of Wyoming levying and authorizing the collection 
of said tax be decreed constitutional and legal, as against 
this defendant; that the petition of the plaintiff be dis- 
missed and this defendant recover its costs herein and have 
such other and further equitable relief as to this court may 
appear proper. 

The City of Cheyenne, a Municipal corporation, by 
Il. B. Henderson, Jr., Harry B. Henderson, Jr. 


Duly sworn to by Harry B. Henderson, Jr. Jurat omit- 
ted in printing. 


Nec UR REDE ee 


RSA PRG PAN CRin LAIN EEE ROA Wet 4 Bn 


Agata tevetnsacnsnste SRLS ORAL EEA ELAR Ratons gullet RRR aa a le a 


Pubstivasttinarnticmmatisacnaisin 


30 


(For a copy of the contract annexed to the Answer see 
the copy included in the evidence at page 96 of this tran- 
script.) Printed as Exhibit C at page 80. 


In Unrrep Srates Disrricr Court 


SEPARATE ANSWER OF THE DereNnpANT, W. H. Epetman, 
Stare Treasurer—Filed Dee, 16, 1930 


Comes now defendant, William H. Edelman, State Treas- 
urer, and for his separate answer to the Bill of Complaint 
of the plaintiff, as filed in the above court, admits, denies 
and avers as follows: 


1. This defendant, for answer to Paragraph 1 of Plain- 
tiff’s Bill of Complaint, for want of information sufficient 
[fol. 31] to form a belief, denies each and every allegation 
therein set forth, 


2. This defendant, for answer to Paragraph 2 of said 
Bill of Complaint, admits that William H. Edelman is a 
citizen and resident of the State of Wyoming and is the 
duly elected, qualified and acting State Treasurer of the 
State of Wyoming. 


3. This defendant, for his answer to Paragraph 3 of said 
Bill of Complaint, admits that this action is a suit of a 
civil nature; that the amount in controversy exceeds, ex- 
clusive of costs and interests, a sum in value of Three Thou- 
sand ($3,000.00) Dollars; denies that said action arises 
under the Constitution and laws of the United States; ad- 
mits that the plaintiff by this action seeks to enjoin this 
defendant, William H. Edelman, as a ‘ate officer of the 
State of Wyoming, from collecting a tax levied and imposed 
by the State of Wyoming upon plaintiff; but denies that 
said tax, so levied and imposed is unconstitutional and il- 
legal and denies that the imposition of said tax is in viola- 
tion of Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the Constitution 
of the United States. For want of information sufficient 
to form aq belief, this defendant denies that the value of the 
right of the plaintiff to transact interstate business and 
commerce in and through the State of Wyoming is far in 
excess of Three Thousand Dollars, exclusive of interest 


——— ak ARE WAR AO Ne , we tie . TP RT we eA 


31 


and costs; denies that plaintiff is, by reason of carrying on 
its said business, subject to an unconstitutional, illegal and 
void tax. This defendant further admits that, unless re- 
strained by order of this court, he will collect from the 
plaintiff said tax, but denies t’at said tax is unconstitu- 
tional, illegal and invalid and denies that this defendant 
will collect any illegal and void tax in the amount of Three 
Thousand Dollars, exclusive of interests and costs, as set 
forth in this petition. 


4. This defendant, in answer to Paragraph 4 of Plain- 
tiff’s Bill of Complaint, admits that for some time hitherto, 
plaintiff has been engaged in and has transacted interstate 
commerce and business in transporting passengers and ex- 
press and United States mail by airplane for hire into, 
across and through the State of Wyoming from points out- 
[fol. 32] side the boundaries thereof and from points within 
the State of Wyoming to points outside the boundaries 
thereof and has transacted a small amount of similar busi. 
ness from points inside the State of Wyoming to other 
points within said state; but that for want of information 
sufficient to form a belief, denies that plaintiff intends to 
continue to carry on and transact interstate commerce and 
business in the State of Wyoming. Defendant denies that 
all of said business, as so set forth in said Paragraph 4, is 
intermingled in the same airplanes. 


oS 


5. This defendant, for his answer to Paragraph 5 of 
Plaintiff's Bill of Complaint, admits that gasoline is used 
as fuel in said airplanes for the purpose of propelling the 
same; denies that gasoline purchased by and delivered to 
plaintiff and used by plaintiff, as said fuel, for the opera- 
tion and propulsion of its said airplanes cannot be appor- 
tioned between the said two classes of business; and avers 
the fact to be that the gasoline purchased by and delivered 
to the plaintiff and used by the plaintiff as fuel for the 
operation and propulsion of its said airplanes can be ap- 
portioned between the said two classes of business, for the 
reason that the gasoline has been and is being apportioned, 
under agreement between plaintiff and this defendant as is 
evidenced by the fact that the gasoline used by the plaintiff 
in its interstate business is being kept in one tank at its 
airfields at Cheyenne and Rock Springs, respectively; and 
the gasoline used by the plaintiff in its intrastate business, 


32 


is kept in another and different tank at its airfields at Chey- 
enne and Rock Springs; and has been since on or about 
March 15, 1930; and the payment of the tax on the gasoline 
so used in interstate commerce and business has been paid 
separately and under protest since on or about said March 
15, 1930, while the payment of the tax on the gasoline so 
used in intrastate commerce and business has been paid 
separately and without protest, since on or about said 
March 15, 1930; the said payments which were made under 
protest during said period being as follows: 


{fol. 33] Rock 


Cheyenne Springs 
Receipt No. Field Field 
March 20, 1930....... 886 $424.08 
# 20, ‘ 885 ti, $181.00 
Ree Oe is cys 455.96 
“ mm ee. at Se ek fi 240.28 
May 12, ‘ Saris ae 651.68 
sed Bese ox, ... 890 ape 256.32 
June 16, ‘ 892 549.64 
si ae, 891 ; 275.00 
ee em eae es 894 666.24 
ni ine “: 893 314.04 
ae - 14, * 896 698.40 
- _ > 895 322.32 
ih a ae 898 724.48 
“ = a eee me 363.04 
_: 2 “ 901 668,92 
" >? et 900 ee 355.60 
ek ek . 902 689.88 
” — ... 908 + 418.72 


$5,529.28 $2,726.32 
Total ...... een ae ere nee $8,255.66 


and the said payments which were made without protest 
during said period and paid over to said cities, being as 
follows: 


ATR RE EN OSD Gah aes 


33 
Cheyenne Field 

March 21, 1990............ Receipt 60891 $158.84 
etl. 44... Pepe ‘« 61012 189.52 
| IE OR alkene eae ee ‘* 61497 150.08 
Sere igs ‘« 62020 54.76 
eet Pit nD ee ‘« 62562 144.72 
ons cs cos ‘6 62995 98.88 
| re ‘¢ «63419 204.00 
Oct. a Reis ‘* 63969 381.88 
Me? SI te pens «64454 310.88 
$1,693.56 

[fol. 34] Rock Springs Field 
March 21, 1930 Receipt 60892 $7.44 
April 14, “* . “61013 12.52 
May _.* ye wirneeras ‘« 61498 25.24 
June 16, ‘* are: bs “ 62021 19.96 
. ae | Pe ‘¢ 62561 41.76 
im - . a 62994 41.16 
Sept. 12, * ‘« 63418 73.56 
Oct. Nae ‘¢ 63970 70.84 
Nov. 18, ‘ ‘* 64453 28.44 
$320.92 


Further answering the allegations of said paragraph 5 
of plaintiff’s bill of complaint, this defendant denies that 
said intrastate business and commerce and said interstate 
business and commerce are commingled and alleges the fact 
to be that the said intrastate business and commerce and 
said interstate business and commerce cannot be com- 
mingled. That for want of information sufficient to form a 
belief, denies that plaintiff knows of no other fuel which 
can be practically, conveniently or profitably used in con- 
nection with said business. 


6. This defendant, for his answer to Paragraph 6 of said 
Bill of Complaint, admits that the plaintiff owns, operates 
and maintains airplanes in interstate commerce and busi- 
ness as aforesaid upon legally defined routes and sched- 


J—-d71 


4 Seinen Me £2 La PARAS Sons ena Bea “4 


o4 


ules; further admits that the motive power used by said 
airplanes, and each of them, being as aforesaid, is ex- 
clusively the use of gasoline as fuel. 


7. This defendant, for answer to Paragraph 7 of Plain- 
tiff’s Bill of Complaint, admits that part of the gasoline 
used by plaintiff in its said business is purchased by and 
delivered to plaintiff in the State of Wyoming; admits that 
a part thereof is purchased outside of said state and that 
such gasoline purchased and delivered to the plaintiff 
either in or outside of said State of Wyoming is used and 
consumed by plaintiff as fuel for the propulsion of its said 
airplanes in its interstate commerce and business as afore- 
said and alleges that a part of said gasoline as purchased 
by said plaintiffs is used in its intrastate commerce and 
business. This defendant denies said gasoline, purchased 
and used by the plaintiff, is an instrumentality of interstate 
commerce. 


[fol. 35] 8. This defendant, for its answer to Paragraph 
8 of plaintiff’s Bill of Complaint, admits that in the said 
interstate commerce and business, some passengers, mail 
and express are transported and carried in intrastate busi- 
ness, but denies that intrastate business and interstate busi- 
ness are so commingled and denies that a separation of one 
from the other is not reasonable and practieal; denies that 
they are commingled and denies that plaintiff’s interstate 
passengers, mail and express business cannot be carried 
efficiently and economically in airplanes used exclusively in 
interstate commerce and denies that plaintiff’s intrastate 
passengers, mail and express can not be carried likewise in 
airplanes used exclusively in intrastate commerce. 


9. This defendant, for his answer to Paragraph 9 of 
Plaintiff’s Bill of Complaint, admits that by divers acts of 
the Legislature of the State of Wyoming, to-wit, Chapter 
73 of the Session Laws of Wyoming of 1923, entitled ‘‘ An 
Act providing a license tax on gasoline, providing for the 
collection thereof, defining certain words or phrases, pre- 
scribing manner and methods of payment, fixing penalties 
for failure to make same, and providing for the disposition 
of said taxes’’; together with Chapter 89 of the Session 
Laws of Wyoming of 1925, entitled ‘*An Act to amend and 


aa 


Nae vil, te re 


35 


re-enact Sections 2, 3, and 5, Chapter 73, Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1925, providing a license tax on gasoline and 
providing for the disposition of such license taxes, and dis- 
play of price signs by dealers in gasoline and prescribing 
penalty for violation’’; together with Chapter 70 of the 
Session Laws of Wyoming of 1927, entitled ““An Act to 
amend and re-enact Sections 2 and 3, Chapter 73, Session 
Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as amended and re-enacted by See- 
tions 1 and 2, Chapter 89, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1925, 
and to amend and re-enact Section 4of Chapter 89, Session 
Laws of Wyoming, 1925, relating to display of price signs 
by dealers and providing a penalty for violation thereof ; 
providing a license tax on gasoline and for the collection 
and statement of the amount of tax collected’’; together 
with Chapter 139 of the Session Laws of Wyoming of 1929, 
entitled ‘*An Act to amend and re-enact Sections 2 and 3, 
Chapter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as amended 
by Sections 1 and 2, Chapter 70, Session Laws of Wyoming, 
1927, and to amend and re-enact Section 5, Chapter 73, 
Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as amended and re-enacted 
[fol. 36] by Section 8, Chapter 39, (89?) Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1925, and to amend and re-enact Section 6, Chap- 
ter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923; providing for a 
license tax on gasoline, and for the collection and statement 
of the amount of tax collected; providing for the disposition 
of said taxes, and fixing penalties for violation of any of the 
provisions of this Act’?; and Chapter 14 of the Session Laws 
of Wyoming enacted at the Special Session, 1929, entitled 
‘An Act to amend and re-enact Section 3, Chapter 73, Ses- 
sion Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as amended and re-enacted by 
Section 2, Chapter 70, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1927, as 
amended and re-enacted by Section 2, Chapter 139, Session 
Laws of Wyoming, 1929, providing for a license tax on gaso- 
line, and for the collection thereof and providing for state- 
ments of gasoline sold or used by wholesalers or users and 
the payment of the tax by them; and providing for the dis- 
position of the tax from gasoline used on municipal air fields 
and fixing penalties for violation of any of the provisions of 
this Act’?; and by the construction and interpretation of the 
said acts by the defendant and by the State of Wyoming and 
its officers the said State of Wyoming imposed and levied a 
tax of four cents per gallon on each and every gallon of 


er) 


Aree | re Lae 


a abd Ht ae Sa ai 


ne ae 


36 


gasoline placed by the plaintiff, in its airplanes while within 
the State of Wyoming, whether purchased or delivered to 
it in the State of Wyoming, or elsewhere, and on each and 
every gallon of gasoline put into the tanks of each of its 
airplanes within the State of Wyoming for consumption in 
propelling such airplanes in its commerce as aforesaid, and 
on each and every gallon of gasoline consumed by the plain- 
tiff in the State of Wyoming in its aforesaid commerce; that 
under the provisions of said acts the defendant, Treasurer 
of the State of Wyoming, and his respective deputies, 
agents, servants, attorneys, workmen and other employees 
are charged with and exercise the duty of collecting and dis- 
bursing the said tax as therein provided; that under the 
said statutes the penalties and liabilities, civil and criminal, 
against the plaintiff, its officers and employees for any fail- 
ure in the payment of any tax demanded under said statute 
include among other things liability for double the amount 
of the tax, liability to injunction against the plaintiff and its 
vendors, without bond, such as would prevent the plaintiff 
from obtaining any gasoline, liability to have appointed for 
[fol. 37] the plaintiff a receiver for its property and its 
business, liability on the part of its officers and employees 
to fine and imprisonment ; denies that for a long time prior 
hereto the said defendant, State Treasurer, and his dep- 
uties, agents, servants, attorneys, workmen and/or em- 
ployees have wrongfully and without authority of law re- 
quired the said plaintiff to pay the said tax on each and 
every gallon of gasoline purchased or put into the tanks of 
its airplanes or used as aforesaid in the conduct of its said 
interstate commerce and business; admit that the said de- 
fendant, State Treasurer, and his respective deputies, 
agents, servants, attorneys, workmen and/or employees 
still require and threaten to continue to require the pay- 
ment of the said tax by the plaintiff; deny that the State 
Treasurer, and his respective deputies, agents, servants, 
attorneys, workmen and/or employees will wrongfully and 
unlawfully continue to exact and collect the said tax from 
the plaintiff unless enjoined and restrained from so doing 
by order of this court; admit that the defendant, his dep- 
uties, employees and agents have already exacted from the 
plaintiff under the said statute, and the plaintiff to avoid on 
its own part and on that of its employees and officers the 


37 
great penalties, civil and criminal, denounced by said stat- 
utes, has paid to the defendant, William H. Edelman, the 


following sums for gasoline put into its airplane tanks at 
Cheyenne and used in the aforesaid commerce, to-wit: 


March 15, 1930 é ........ $424.08 
April 12, 1930 rf 455 96 
May 10, 1930 | 651 68 
June 14, 1930 . . Uae 549 64 
July 15, 1930 666 24 
August 13, 1930... eye 698 40 
September 11, 1930 724 48 
October 13, 1930 668 92 
November 15, 1930 . 689 88 


Admit that said payments were made under protest; admit 
that the defendant, his deputies, employees, agents, ete., 
have likewise under the said statute demanded and exacted 
from the plaintiff, and the plaintiff to escape the extreme 
civil and criminal penalties of said statutes, has paid to 
the defendant, William H. Edelman, for gasoline placed in 
its airplanes at Rock Springs, used in such interstate com- 
merce, the following sums, to-wit: 


{fol. 38] Mareh 15, 1930 <e $181 00 
April 12, 1930 __. 240 28 
5 re ate a aac 256 32 
June 14, 1930 . 275 00 
July 15, 1930 314 04 
August 13, 1930 | Patan cds . 322 32 
September 11, 1930 Rocce ake ies 363 04 
October 13, 1930 te EC . 355 60 
November 15, 1930 . ae 418 72 


admit that said payments were made under protest. 


10. This defendant, in answer to Paragraph 10 of Plain- 
tiff’s Bill of Complaint, denies that the said statutes of Wy- 
oming are unconstitutional, illegal and void in so far as 
they, or any or either of them, apply to plaintiff, and deny 
that the same directly burdens and interferes with inter- 
state commerce, and deny that the said statutes as applied 
to plaintiff directly burdens and interferes with the said 
interstate commerce and business of plaintiff in transport- 


4H Rirwe nes . 
ORS AER Ho ap ene 


> 
i 
ee. 
& 
z. 
9 
KS 
g 
3 
Ld 
= 
& 
& 
rs 


Ee He ETAL Ta 


38 


ing and carrying mail, passengers and/or express in inter- 
state commerce by air; denies that the said tax is uncon- 
stitutional, illegal and void so far as it applies to plaintiff 
and its said business, and denies that said tax conflicts with, 
offends against and is in violation of Clause 3 of Section 8 
of Article I of the Constitution of the United States grant- 
ing to Congress the exclusive power to regulate commerce 
between the several states, and denies that the said statutes 
purport to impose and levy, and denies that said statutes 
do impose and levy a tax on all gasoline purchased or con- 
sumed as fuel in Wyoming to propel airplanes flying be- 
tween the said State and neighboring states in interstate 
commerce, and denies that said tax is enacted as the price 
of the privilege of using an instrumentality of interstate 
commerce and thus evading the exclusive power of Con- 
gress to regulate commerce between the several states. 


11. This defendant, for his answer to Paragraph 11 of 
Plaintiff’s Bill of Complaint, admits that the said defend- 
ant, the City of Cheyenne, and the said defendant, the City 


of Rock Springs, and each of tl. m, are municipal corpora- 
2 tions organized and existing under the laws of the State of 
‘4 Wyoming and each of them is a citizen and resident of the 
* State of Wyoming; that there is at each of the said muniec- 
< ° . ee ® . . 
: [fol. 39] ipal corporations a municipal air field, at each of 
4 which the airplanes used by this plaintiff land more or less 


q regularly and more or less regularly are supplied with gas- 
: oline to be used as fuel in propelling its airplanes in inter- 
1 state commerce as aforesaid. Defendant admits that the 
3 said statutes as construed by the defendants, and each of 
them, appropriate to the said defendant, the City of Chey- 
enne, all funds received from the said gasoline license tax 
on gasoline taken into the airplanes of the plaintiff at 
Cheyenne for use by the plaintiff in such interstate com- 
merce, and admits that such statutes direct such fund to 
be paid over to the said City of Cheyenne, and likewise 
that all of the said taxes for gasoline taken into the plain- 
tiff’s airplanes at Rock Springs for use in the said inter- 
state commerce are to be paid to the said City of Rock 
Springs, by reason whereof the said defendant, The City of 
Cheyenne, is not only claiming the sums, and each of them 
that have been paid by this plaintiff to the defendant, 
Edelman, for gasoline so put into its airplanes at Cheyenne 


Pititicicriiramimncar gustan amr ae 


STE ae 


- SEM PES a RS EIT AEE SE TS OE er 


39 


for use in said interstate commerce, but is also claiming 
that the plaintiff be compelled to continue such payments 
indefinitely for the future; and in like manner the said 
City of Rock Springs is not only claiming the sums, and 
each of them, that have been paid by this plaintiff to the 
defendant, Edelman, for gasoline so put into its airplanes 
at Rock Springs for use in said interstate commerce, but 
is also claiming that the plaintiff be compelled to continue 
such payments indefinitely for the future, and by reason 
of the said construction of the said statutes and the claims 
so as aforesaid made by and on behalf of the said City of 
Cheyenne and of the said City of Rock Springs, each of 
the said municipalities is a necessary party to the full 
determination of the constitutionality of the said statutes 
as so as aforesaid applied to this plaintiff; and the said 
City of Cheyenne is a necessary party to any full settle- 
ment and disposition of so much of this cause as applies 
to the taxes already paid by the plaintiff for gasoline placed 
in its tanks at Cheyenne and used in interstate commerce 
as aforesaid, and the said City of Rock Springs is a neces- 
sary party to any full settlement and disposition of so much 
of this cause as applies to the taxes already paid by the 
plaintiff for gasoline placed in its tanks at Rock Springs 
and used in interstate commerce as aforesaid. 


12. This defendant, for its answer to Paragraph 12 of 
[fol. 40] plaintiff’s Bill of Complaint, denies that if the ex- 
actions made from the plaintiff, as in said petition alleged, 
be held to be exactions of ordinary taxation upon the gas- 
oline, as property owned by plaintiff, in order to produce 
revenue for public purposes, State, County and municipal, 
that such taxation would be illegal and void as violating the 
second provision of Section 28 of Article 1 of the Constitu- 
tion of the State of Wyoming, which is in the following 
words: 


‘* All taxation shall be equal and uniform.”’ 
and denies that such taxation is illegal and void as violat- 


ing Section 11 of Article 15 of the Constitution of the State 
of Wyoming, which is in the following words: 


‘All property, except as in this constitution otherwise 
provided, shall be uniformly assessed for taxation, and the 


: 
4 
: 
£ 
f 


Fa FPR NES BS TRF SEN 


40 


legislature shall prescribe such regulations as shall secure 
a just valuation for taxation of all property, real and per- 
sonal.”’ 


denies that said tax upon gasoline, as property owned by 
the plaintiff, is illegal and void because as to all other per- 
sonalty within the State of Wyoming, the owner thereof, 
under the provisions of Section 2762, Wyoming Compiled 
Statutes, 1920, is taxed only upon the value of so much 
thereof as is owned by such owner on the first day of April 
of the then current year, while on the gasoline used by 
plaintiff as aforesaid the said license tax exacted from this 
plaintiff, as herein averred, is levied upon all gasoline 
bought or used by plaintiff during the year, although the 
plaintiff did not on April Ist, or on any other day, own as 
much as one-tenth part of the gasoline upon which the said 
tax is exacted as in this bill alleged. 

Defendant admits that the highest amount of the ordi- 
nary tax for all purposes levied upon other personalty in 
any year in Cheyenne or in the county in which it is located, 
or in Rock Springs or in the county in which it is located 
or at any other place in Wyoming, does not exceed four 
per centum of the value of such personalty, yet the license 
tax levied as herein alleged against the gasoline used by 
this plaintiff in interstate commerce, as herein shown, ex- 
ceeds twenty per centum of the value of all gasoline, not 
only all that owned by the plaintiff on any one day but 
twenty per centum of all of that from time to time bought 
or used by the plaintiff in its said interstate commerce busi- 
{fol. 41] ness in Wyoming; but denies that said license tax 
exacted from said plaintiff is illegal and void by reason 
thereof. 


13. This defendant, for its answer to Paragraph 13 of 
Plaintiff’s Bill of Complaint, denies that each and every of 
the payments of said tax by the plaintiff has been paid 
solely in order that the plaintiff might be permitted to 
continue to use gasoline in propelling its said artplanes in 
such interstate commerce and business and in order to 
avoid irreparable loss and injury by the imposition upon 
the plaintiff and its officers, agents and employees of the 
penalties, civil and criminal, imposed by said acts, each 
and every of which penalties the said defendant, his depu- 


41 


ties, agents, assistants. servants, ete., has threatened and 
still threatens to enforce and each of which the said de- 
fendant personally and through his said agents, deputies, 
officers and assistants will enforce unless restrained and 
enjoined from so doing. 


14. This defendant, for answer to Paragraph 14 of plain- 
tiff’s Bill of Complaint, denies that under the provisions 
of said statutes the wholesale distributors or consignees 
of gasoline are made agents of the State of Wyoming for 
the purpose of collecting said gasoline tax, said agents 
acting under the direction of the defendant, State Treas- 
urer, and while the said distributors and/or consignees 
of gasoline actually collect, return and remit said tax to 
the State of Wyoming and to the defendant, the State 
Treasurer, and denies that said gasoline tax is in law and 
in practice levied and imposed against the consumer of 
said gasoline within the State of Wyoming and not against 
the wholesale distributor or consignee, and such tax is paid 
by all such consumers, ordinarily direct to the defendant, 
the Treasurer of the State of Wyoming; and admits that 
said plaintiff has paid tax in order to purchase or con- 
sume any gasoline in the State of Wyoming, and will here- 
after be forced to pay until defendant, his agents, serv- 
ants, employees, workmen and other persons acting by and 
through him, are enjoined and restrained from collecting 
the same by order of this court. 


15. This defendant, for its answer to Paragraph 15 of 
Plaintiff’s Bill of Complaint, admits that under the laws 
of the State of Wyoming relief by injunction is a remedy 
afforded all persons as a remedy to enjoin the enforcement 
and/or collection of any illegal levy of any tax, charge or 
[fol. 42] assessment and of any proceedings to enforce the 
same, and further alleges that the remedy by injunction 
sought by the plaintiff herein alone will afford to the plain- 
tiff complete or speedy relief; that the plaintiff has no ade- 
quate remedy at law; that the entire controversy involved 
herein can be settled in one suit in equity in which much 
time and great expense will be saved and a multiplicity of 
suits prevented, and that such results cannot, nor can any 
reasonable relief, be obtained by any remedy at law, either 
in a single suit brought by the plaintiff, or otherwise. 


Ky 4 
2 
% 
4 
a 
ve 
Se 
2 
* 
q 


a ee 
Ly italian. an ay 


Bieta Bile abt 


eee 


This defendant denies that under the provisions of said 
statutes the distributors of such gasoline, and each of 
them is charged with the duty, as agents of the State of 
Wyoming, of collecting and returning the tax to defend- 
ant, State of Wyoming; admits that the plaintiff in order 
to continue to operate its said airplanes in the conduct of 
its said business is compelled to purchase from time to 
time and from day to day large quantities of gasoline in 
the State of Wyoming and that no such distributor or any 
other dealer in gasoline in said state will sell such gasoline 
to the plaintiff unless the plaintiff so purchasing the same 
shall make payment of said tax levied and assessed thereon 
at the time of the purchase thereof; and admits that plain- 
tiff is unable to purchase any gasoline in the State of Wyo- 
ming for the operation or propulsion of its said airplanes 
without at the time paying the said tax thereon, and plain- 
tiff alleges that by the express provisions of said acts 
and/or by the practical operation thereof by the defendant 
and the legal effect thereof the said tax is absorbed in the 
price paid for all gasoline purchased in Wyoming for use 
or consumption in the said state by the purchaser, includ- 
ing this plaintiff; and denies that under the provisions of 
said act the said tax, as so collected and returned to the 
state by the distributor of or dealer therein is both in 
practice and in legal effect a tax on the consumer of such 
gasoline; and denies that unless the injunctive relief herein 
sought by the plaintiff be granted the said interstate busi- 
ness of the plaintiff herein will be daily and constantly 
burdened, interfered with and damaged to its great and 
irreparable injury; and denies that by reason of the facts, 
as set forth in plaintiff’s petition, it has no clear, adequate 
or complete remedy at jaw and denies that it will suffer 
irreparable damage and injury and be subject to a multi- 
[fol. 43] plicity of vexatious suits and litigation unless the 
enforcement and collection of said tax insofar as it applies 
to gasoline purchased and/or consumed by the plaintiff in 
the State of Wyoming as fuel for the operation of its said 
airplanes in interstate commerce and business, as afore- 
said, is tmmediately enjoined and restrained by a tempo- 
rary interlocutory injunction granted by this court, as 
prayed for in plaintiff’s petition, and unless defendant be 
upon final hearing of said cause perpetually enjoined and 
restrained from the collection and enforcement of said tax. 


ee ee 
i es 


43 


Defendant admits that the plantiff has paid to the proper 
officers in Wyoming all license taxes justly and properly 
due from it upon all gasoline used by it locally in Wyoming. 


Wherefore, this defendant respectfully prays that the 
relief herein asked by the plaintiff be denied; that the col- 
lection of license tax upon the gasoline purchased and/or 
used by the plaintiff in its intrastate commerce and busi- 
ness and its interstate commerce and business in accord- 
ance with the provisions of the statutes of the State of 
Wyoming levying and authorizing the collection of said 
tax be decreed constitutional and legal, as against this de- 
fendant; that the petition of the plaintiff be dismissed; 
and this defendant recover its costs herein and have such 
other and further equitable relief as to this court may ap- 
pear proper. 

William O. Wilson, Attorney General of the State of 
Wyoming. J. A. Greenwood, Deputy Attorney 
General of the State of Wyoming. Richard J. 
Jackson, Assistant Attorney General of the State 
of Wyoming. P. S. Garbutt, Assistant Attorney 
General of the State of Wyoming. 


Duly sworn to by Charles B. Morgan. Jurat omitted m 
printing. 


[fol. 44] In Unrrep States District Court 
[Title omitted] 
SuprPLEMENTAL Bitt or CompLtaint—Fiied May 26, 1931 


Comes now the plaintiff, Boeing Air Transport, Inc., and 
for its Supplemental Bill of Complaint, withdrawing no 
part of its original Bill of Complaint nor its action as to 
any of the defendants named therein, complaining of 
Harry R. Weston in addition to the matters charged 
against the several defendants as shown in its original bill 
of complaint, alleges that since the commencement of this 
action and during its progress, to-wit, on the 5th day of 
January, 1931, the said defendant, Harry R. Weston, hav- 
ing been duly elected thereto, took the office of State Treas- 
urer of the State of Wyoming, which office he now lawfully 


and duly holds. 


costreemenaed 


v penaiaiiy iis NPS Baa AS SR ENR Rates AR ES Ein IN EERE A oI NI ‘ 


ied SPAREN TM ARE TEED LED BLD EO RE TE SBOE 


44 


And the plaintiff now alleges against said Harry R. 
Weston each and every matter in the said original Bill 
of Complaint alleged against the said defendant, William 
H. Edelman, save the allegations in said original Bill con- 
tained in tables on pages 6 and 7 of said Bill stating the 
dates and amounts of money received by the said William 
H. Edelman. 

And plaintiff alleges that the plaintiff to avoid on its 
part and that of its employees and officers the great pen- 
alties, civil and criminal, denounced by said statutes, has 
paid to the defendant, Harry R. Weston, as such, claimed 
gasoline tax, under proper and sufficient protest, the fol- 
lowing sums for gasoline put into its airplane tanks at 
Cheyenne and used in its interstate commerce, to-wit: 


[fel. 45] January 9, 1931.............. _...... $762.68 
February 14, 1931... oe I Be 2d BR ... 820.12 
March 9, 1931..... ap eo _ 707.28 
April 13, 1931....... - 806.16 
May 12, 1931.... L1nss. 108M 


And the defendant, Harry R. Weston, his deputies, em- 
ployees, agents, ete., have likewise under the said statute 
demanded and exacted from the plaintiff under the said 
statute, and the plaintiff to escape the extreme civil and 
criminal penalties of said statute, has paid to the defendant, 
Harry R. Weston, under proper and sufficient protest, for 
gasoline placed in its airplanes at Rock Springs, used in 
such interstate commerce, the following sums, to-wit: 


Bemmery 9, WOOL. ............... ae ..... $488.48 
February 14, 1931 ; ... 492.00 
March 9, 1931. . RAL egoreT 
April 18, 1931 SOR ee 490.84 
May 12, 1931..... . 550.32 


Wherefore, plaintiff prays that each and every relief by 
plaintiff asked against the original defendants in its origi- 
nal Bill may be granted not only as against the said original 
defendants but also as against the said defendant, Harry 
R. Weston, and all other proper relief. 

John W. Lacey, Attorney for Plaintiff. 


Dily sworn to by D. B. Colyer. Jurat omitted in printing. 


1 PO Nt et PERE 


45 
[fol. 46] Ix Unitep States District Court 


GripuLATION RE SUPPLEMENTAL Bitt or Compiarnt—Filed 
May 26, 1931 


It is hereby consented to and agreed by and between 
counsel in said cause subject to the approval of the court 
that the plaintiff may file a supplemental Bill of Complaint 
in said cause, setting out payments of the gasoline tax com- 
plained of, made to Harry R. Weston, State Treasurer, 
and alleging against said Weston by reference to the origi- 
nal Bill and not by the statement at large such facts as the 
plaintiff may desire to allege against the said Weston. 

It is further stipulated and agreed that the answer here- 
tofore filed in said cause by the defendant Edelman may 
stand and be taken also as an answer by the defendant 
Weston. 

Dated this 25th day of May, A. D. 1931. 

John W. Lacey, Attorney for Plaintiff. J. A. Green- 
wood, Attorney General of the State of Wyoming, 
Attorney for defendants Edelman and Weston. 


In Unirep States Districr Court 


Orper Permittinc PLAINTIFF To FILE A SUPPLEMENTAL BILL 
or CompLaint Maxine Harry R. Weston, TREASURER OF 
THE STaTeE oF Wyominec, a Party DEFENDANT—Filed May 
26, 193 


Comes now said plaintiff and files its application for 
leave to make Harry R. Weston, State Treasurer of the 
State of Wyoming, a party defendant, and therewith pre- 
sents a Supplemental Bill of Complaint, making its allega- 
tions of fact against the said Harry R. Weston by referring 
to the allegations of fact in said original Bill of Complaint. 

And the court being sufficiently advised does now give 
leave to file said Supplemental Bill of Complaint in the form 
presented. 

Dated this 26 day of May, A. D. 1931. 

T. Blake Kennedy, Judge. 


6 eT 


ALAS HEAP SA A PTL TIS FEI —— 


x 
4 


Col 
3 
& 
& 
Be 
3 
? 
: 
4 
fs) 
| 
¢ 
so 


46 
[fol. 47] In Untrep States District Court 


Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and Decree—Filed 
July 23, 1931 


The above entitled cause was heretofore heard by the 
Court upon the pleadings, the evidence and the arguments 
of counsel and taken under advisement by the court. 

And the court having heard and considered the said 
pleadings and evidence and the arguments of counsel, and 
being now sufficiently advised, does upon the matters in- 
volved make the following findings of fact, conclusions of 
law and decree. 


I 


FINDINGS or Facr 


1. The court finds that no application was made by any 
party to this cause for any hearing upon the prayer for an 
interlocutory injunction, and further finds that the case pro- 
ceeded to final hearing before a single judge, without objec- 
tion on the part of any party to the cause, and that the 
plaintiff waived its application for an interlocutory injune- 
tion as contained in its bill of complaint, which waiver was 
consented to and acquiesced in by all of the defendants. 

And the court finds that the plaintiff is a corporation 
organized and existing under the laws of the State of 
Washington and duly authorized to do business of the kind 
mentioned in the Bill of Complaint, in and through the 
State of Wyoming, and is a citizen and resident of said 
State of Washington. 


2. That the defendants William H. Edelman and Harry 
R. Weston are citizens and residents of the State of Wyo- 
ming, and that at the time of the filing of the Bill of Com- 
plaint the defendant William H. Edelman was an officer of 
the State of Wyoming, namely, the duly elected, qualified 
and acting State Treasurer of the State of Wyoming, and 
that later, to-wit, on the 5th day of January, 1931, the said 
defendant Harry R. Weston, having theretofore been duly 
elected, became the qualified and acting State Treasurer of 
the State of Wyoming. 

3. That the defendant, The City of Cheyenne, and the de- 
fendant, The City of Rock Springs, and each of them, are 
municipal corporations, organized and existing under the 


Di tele 


ee ea 


a 2 


47 


laws of the State of Wyoming, and each of them is a citizen 
[fol. 48] and resident of the State of Wyoming; that at 
Cheyenne there is a municipal air field owned by Cheyenne, 
at which the airplanes used by the plaintiff land more or 
less regularly, and more or less regularly are supplied with 
gasoline to be used as fuel in propelling its airplanes in its 
interstate commerce; that at Rock Springs there is a mu- 
nicipal air field leased by said last named City from the 
United States of America at a rental of $10.00 per annum, 
at which the airplanes used by the plaintiff land more or 
less regularly, and more or less regularly are supplied with 
gasoline to be used as fuel in propelling its airplanes in its 
interstate commerce. 

That the State of Wyoming, through its State Treas- 
urers, is insisting upon payment of all the taxes in con- 
troversy in this cause, and the said City of Cheyenne is 
claiming the taxes paid by the plaintiff for gasoline put 
into plaintiff’s airplanes at Cheyenne for use in its inter- 
state commerce, and is insisting that the collection of the 
same for the use of said City be continued. Likewise the 
City of Rock Springs is claiming the taxes paid by the 
plaintiff for gasoline put into plaintiff’s airplanes at Rock 
Springs for use in its interstate commerce, and is insisting 
that the collection of the same for the use of said City be 
continued. And the said City of Cheyenne and the said 
City of Rock Springs are proper and necessary parties to 
this action. 

4. That the plaintiff’s suit exhibited by its Bill of Com- 
plaint and by its evidence is a suit of a civil nature and 
arises under the Constitution and laws of the United States, 
and the matter in controversy exceeds, exclusive of interest 
and costs, the sum and value of Three Thousand Dollars. 

That the action is one in which the plaintiff seeks to en- 
join the defendant William H. Edelman and the defendant 
Harry R. Weston, State officers of the State of Wyoming 
as above found, from collecting a tax which plaintiff claims 
is an unconstitutional and illegal tax levied and imposed 
by the State of Wyoming upon the plaintiff in violation of 
Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article 1 of the Constitution of the 
United States, and that the value of the alleged right of 
the plaintiff to transact interstate business and commerce 
in and through the State of Wyoming without being sub- 
jected to such tax is in excess of Three Thousand Dollars 


48 


exclusive of interest and costs; that unless the defendants 
be restrained from the collection of such tax, plaintiff 
[fol. 49] would be forced to pay to the defendants William 
EK. Edelman and his successor, Harry R. Weston, such taxes 
at each of said fields in an amount in excess of Three Thou- 
sand Dollars exclusive of interest and costs, in order to 
carry on its interstate business and commerce as herein- 
after found. 


5. That the plaintiff is now and for a long time hitherto 
has been engaged in, and intends to continue to carry on 
and transact interstate commerce and business in transport- 
ing passengers, express and United States mail by airplane, 
for hire and profit, into, across and through the State of 
Wyoming from points outside the boundaries thereof, and 
from points within the State of Wyoming to points outside 
the boundaries thereof, with a small amount of similar 
business, hereinafter referred to, from points inside said 
State of Wyoming to other points within said State. 


6. That the fuel used in propelling the plaintiff’s air- 
planes is gasoline exclusively; that the substantial portion 
of plaintiff's business is interstate; that the Wyoming in- 
trastate transportation of mails, passengers and express is 
an insignificant percentage of its entire business, so that 
it would be impractical and impossisble to determine or 
estimate the relative amount of gasoline which would be 
consumed in carrying on its intrastate business. 


7. That the plaintiff owns, operates and maintains air- 
planes in said interstate commerce and business upon regu- 
larly defined routes and schedules, the motive power used 
by its airplanes, and each of them, being exclusively the 
use of gasoline as fuel, as aforesaid. 


8. That part of such gasoline used by the plaintiff is 
purchased by and delivered to plaintiff in the State of 
Wyoming; that a part thereof is purchased outside of said 
State, and all thereof as purchased is deposited in tanks at 
said municipal airports in Wyoming, and that such gasoline 
as is used and consumed by plaintiff as fuel for the propul- 
sion of its said airplanes in its said interstate commerce 
and business is an instrumentality of interstate commerce. 
To which finding the defendants, and each of them, now 
object and except. 


a SOEBIE SRA CF EM SPALL DY SPL AIEEE LD AAAI, SESSA PION we 


49 


9. That the said interstate business and commerce and 
the said intrastate business and commerce are carried in 
[fol. 50] the same planes, and that the said intrastate busi- 
ness could not be pratically or economically carried in sepa- 
rate planes. 


10. That the plaintiff offers for sale and sells gasoline at 
retail prices to customers desiring to purchase the same at 
either of the municipal landing fields here involved and 
collects from such customers so purchasing gasoline the 
retail price charged therefor, including the amount of the 
State tax levied under the statute of the State of Wyoming. 

That the plaintiff has paid without protest the tax of four 
cents per gallon on all gasoline sold by it in Wyoming and 
on all gasoline used by it in Wyoming other than that used 
in its said interstate commerce, and the said taxes so paid 
without protest have been paid over to the said City of 
Cheyenne and the said City of Rock Springs in accordance 
with their respective rights therein. 

That plaintiff’s unpretested payments of such taxes on 
gasoline sold and/or used by plaintiff in Wyoming, are as 
follows, to-wit: 


On that sold and/or used at Cheyenne: 


i as es i 8s eee eens .. 1... 0G 
April 12, 1930 oe Oh eee Nes ae ae | 
May 10, 1930 ig ae eee Lee 
June 4, 1030 A Biaeaceawes ec 54.76 
July 15, 1930 ak a x 144.72 
Aug. 13, 1930 yeahs eee cats 98.88 
Sept. 11, 1930 a POI ar Apis lyre See ... 204.00 
hs Te ee coe ea ys oes erate? -. 381.88 


Nov. 15, 1930 Bers ; 310.88 


i See So hase da si ee ks tat pees Pen .... 847.40 
a SS 2 ccc ko eo Ree owes fo ile Geers an 
Feb. 14, 1931. Prema engl Ue. ee 
Ee an ee ey arrears Or rear wip ae 
pT ee Re itl ois ... Beo04 
Re eres aes ere Men 276.56 
June 5, 1931 Pe here eres 310.60 


4—571 


€ 
E 
a 
ye 
= 
& 


AI Yat EY ODE IIS 


50 
[fol.51] On that sold and/or used at Rock Springs: 


eG wv ong anes ne ob ees _... $7.44 
PEE EEE EE ERO EE PLETE LO Ee 12.52 
I eres Cr i ers nea sea ene lee 25.24 
I es eae eg are wee Eee ad ets hw wae 19.96 
an ee igs en at ae ee ot WAS 41.76 
August 13, 1930... ... pate AN EN AP a I 41.16 
Sept. 11, 1900... .... eR ete ie esas = ... sore 
ee Se gnc 2a a Cake ce a's eae eh aise oo 
Genk ease ea) + ae oo .... 28.44 
Dee. 13, 1930... eae § Art rset aoe ... 22.64 
Jan. 9, 1931....... cel in kta ed ree _.. 20.56 
Feb. 14, 1931...... Eee oa Ne ice nom, Wehner 
March 9, 1931....... Re pe ok aN Be. 5 ane .... Same 
Fo 3 OC A ees erence ee 
aes sin dias a data So ma ae 
I oo ese asa ales =i, i 


The plaintiff has likewise paid all ordinary taxes that 
have accrued on all its property within the State of Wyo- 
ming. 


11. That on the 1st day of July, A. D. 1929, the said City 
of Cheyenne and the plaintiff herein entered into a contract 
in writing concerning the Cheyenne airport and landing 
field, which provided, among other things, 


(a) That the said City let to the plaintiff for the term of 
twenty-five years from the date of said contract four 
hangars and a control house at said airport, described in 
said contract, and the plaintiff agreed to pay for the use of 
said buildings the sum of $3,000.00 per year, and to keep 
said buildings insured at its own expense. 


(b) That said City let to the plaintiff for the term of 
twenty-five years from the date of said contract, a certain 
rectangular tract of land described in said contract as 
hangar space, and the plaintiff agreed to erect thereon a 
building to cost not less than $50,000.00, in connection with 
which the City also let to the plaintiff certain described faxi- 
ways in connection with the said buildings and the said 
hangar space, and the plaintiff agreed to maintain, repair, 
| fol. 52] and, if necessary for its use, improve the said taxi- 


51 


ways, and at its own expense furnish such light thereon as 
might be necessary for its own use. 

And the plaintiff further agreed to pay to the said City 
an annual rental of $1,050.00 for said hangar space and taxi- 
ways. 


(c) In and by said contract the plaintiff and the said City 
of Cheyenne agreed that all of the space at said municipal 
air field, after excluding therefrom that portion covered by 
the buildings, hangar-space and taxi-ways aforesaid, should 
constitute a landing field, and the City agreed to keep the 
said landing field during the term of said agreement and 
during the entire period in which the plaintiff might occupy 
any portion of said municipal field as a tenant of said City, 
as a suitable, well-maintained and well regulated airplane 
landing field for the reasonable use of any and all planes 
and/or airships operated by the plaintiff. And the said 
City further agreed that the plaintiff should have rights on 
said landing field and on the municipal field equal to those 
granted to any other user. 


(d) In and by said contract it was further agreed that the 
said landing field as it had theretofore existed should be 
enlarged by adding a new area already owned by the City, 
and that the plaintiff and the said City should proceed to 
grade and prepare said new area to be included, and extend 
the lighting system around the same, and agreed that the 
cost of all the work of preparing and grading the said new 
area and the cost of the new lighting equipment and the in- 
stallation thereof should be divided equally between the 
parties, the total cost not to exceed $7,000.00. 


(e) In and by said contract the City further agreed to use 
all reasonable efforts to acquire, at its own expense, the land 
included within an additional area described in said con- 
tract, ar 1 after acquiring the same and during the entire 
period in which the plaintiff might make any use of said 
municipal field under the provisions of said contract, agreed 
that it would keep all of said new area, or as much thereof as 
it might acquire free from all buildings and obstructions. 
And the said defendant, the City of Cheyenne, by the said 
contract obligated itself to provide and maintain its said air- 
port landing field and permit the plaintiff unlimited, but not 


Bayt Re S od 


oressenn ORAM NTE 


52 


exclusive use thereof in connection with its business; and the 
[fol.53] defendant, the City of Cheyenne, has expended 
substantial sums of money in improving said airport land- 
ing field and maintaining the same, and will be compelled 
to spend additional substantial sums for the same purpose, 
and that the plaintiff is the chief user of said field at Chey- 
enne. 


(f) And in and by said contract the City of Cheyenne 
further agreed that the plaintiff should be entitled to the 
full, but not exclusive use of said municipal field and land- 
ing field during the term of said agreement on terms as 
favorable as might be granted by the City to any other 
used thereof, and that no charge for any use which it might 
make thereof should be exacted from the plaintiff additional 
to that in said contract specifically provided. 


(g) And that the plaintiff should receive in full for all 
services performed by it in superintending the municipal 
field and landing field and in directing traffic thereon and 
in providing supervising officers and caretakers and in full 
for all office expense and time of officers and accounting, 
and in full for operating and lighting equipment, and in 
full for directing the maintenance and upkeep of the munici- 
pal field, the sum of twenty-four hundred dollars ($2,- 
400.00) per year. 


It was further agreed in said contract that the plaintiff 
should, under the City’s direction, perform all of the actual 
work of maintaining the municipal field, including the grad- 
ing, dragging, conditioning and leveling of the landing field 
and the maintenance and repair of the lighting equipment, 
and that the City should pay to the plaintiff the actual cost 
thereof to the plaintiff, excluding all charges for services 
performed by the plaintiff in superintendence, ete., the pay- 
ment for such superintendence, ete., being $2,400.00 per an- 
num, as above stated. 


12. On the 21st day of July, 1930, the said City of Rock 
Springs and the plaintiff herein entered into a contract in 
writing, which provided, among other things, 

(a) That the City let to the plaintiff for the period of 
twenty vears the non-exclusive use of its municipal airport 
and landing field, the plaintiff to pay to the said City 


a Piatt ps 


03 


$600.00 per year for use of the said air field and of a parcel 
of land 300 feet by 150 feet on which the plaintiff was to 
erect a building or hangar for its use in handling its busi- 
ness on said airport, the plaintiff also to keep the buildings 
[fol. 54] thereon insured for and on behalf of the City at 
eighty per cent of the value thereof; to operate at its own 
expense and without cost to the City all lighting equipment 
on said field; to keep all such lighting equipment in good, 
serviceable condition at its own expense; to operate and 
maintain at its own expense all additional lighting equip- 
ment placed upon said air field with the consent of the City; 
to supervise, manage and maintain said airport and air 
field and the improvements and equipment thereon without 
expense to the City. é' 


And it was further agreed in the contract with each of 
said cities that the City should impose no charges of any 
kind or character upon materials and/or products fur- 
nished or otherwise acquired by the plaintiff for use on said 
airport, nor should any charge be imposed by said City for 
materials and/or products prior to their acquisition by the 
said lessee, 

By said contract the said City of Rock Springs further 
agreed that it should bear all expense incident to the main- 
tenance and upkeep of said airport and the improvements 
and equipment thereon except as otherwise in said con- 
tract specifically provided. 

Said contract also contains the following specific pro- 
visions: 


‘*The lessee (the plaintiff here) agrees to supervise and 
manage said landing field for and on behalf of the lessor 
and under the direction of said lessor. The lessee further 
agrees to supervise and manage on behalf of the lessor and 
under the direction of the lessor the maintenance and up- 
keep of said landing field and the improvements and equip- 
ment thereof; said supervision and management to be 
without cost to the said lessor. 

‘Tt is agreed that the lessee may at its option and after 
giving the lessor 90 days notice, terminate its obligation 
and duty to supervise and manage said landing field and 
airport and the maintenance and upkeep thereof. It is 
agreed that if the lessee shall terminate its obligation and 
duty to supervise and manage said landing field and air- 


a ta _— 


a! 


54 


port, as aforesaid, that the annual rental to be paid by the 
lessee hereunder shall be increased not more than Thirty- 
six Hundred Dollars ($3,600.00), during entire term of 
lease.’’ 


13. And the court finds that the charge for gasoline taxes 
[fol. 55] against the plaintiff for gasoline placed in its air- 
planes at Cheyenne and used in interstate commerce as 
aforesaid, was not in any wise, nor was any part thereof 
exacted from the plaintiff in or by the said contract be- 
tween the plaintiff and the City of Cheyenne, nor were the 
same or any part thereof chargeable against the plaintiff 
at the time when said contract was made with the City of 
Cheyenne. To which finding the defendants, and each of 
them, now object and except. 


14. On December 21, 1929, the Legislature of the State of 
Wyoming enacted the statute which (if the same be valid 
against the plaintiff in relation to the matters here in- 
volved) for the first time required the payment of such 
taxes on the gasoline placed in plaintiff’s airplanes at Chey- 
enne and used by plaintiff as aforesaid in interstate com- 
merce, which statute, if valid as against plaintiff as to said 
gasoline used in interstate commerce, made such taxes col- 
lectible for the use and benefit of the defendant, the City of 
Cheyenne. 

And the court finds that the said plaintiff has in all re- 
spects performed its said contracts, and each of them, and 
that the same, and each of them, are in full force. To 
which finding the defendants, and each of them, now object 
and except. 


15. And the court finds that the said plaintiff, to avoid on 
its own part and on that of its employees and officers the 
penalties, civil and criminal, denounced by the Wyoming 
statute against those failing to pay the said taxes, paid to 
the defendant, William H. Edelman, under full, proper and 
sufficent protest the following sums for gasoline put into 
its airplane tanks at Cheyenne, and used as aforesaid in the 
said interstate commerce, to-wit: 


| ae enh ean $424.08 
April 12,1930 ...... Sane, 455.96 
Soca 3 a Oe es ny. ees) 651.68 
ge eee oak 549.64 


55 
eos ae 6 ores Pan doe a nak oe es 666.24 
August 13, 1930 ....... Ey ee ne Ce Lat 698.40 
SS ee eee 724.48 
I yi os any gine wre eee 668.92 
I go sc wek ws vy elk Wave - 689.88 
A I ne on ek oe .... 661.80 


[fol.56] And likewise, to escape the said penalties, civil 
and criminal, paid to the defendant, William H. Edelman, 
under full, proper and sufficient protest, for gasoline placed 
in its airplanes at Rock Springs, used in such interstate 
commerce, the following sums, to-wit : 


I ogo a a ty oat Rees ees .. $181.00 
I a rer gr a ca ere et bie e 240.28 
May 10, 1930 . Ree rhe ae eee ... ema * 
al, FI a Ar om eal a i a al 275.00 
suly 3, TONS ...i#«#isi# ij # N tee ee J. See 
August 13, 1930 _. ee 322.32 
September 11, 1930 RR EE es: 363.04 
October 13, 1930 fa RR A RAI ent ei ot OES A 355.60 
November 15, 1930 . 418.72 


specomeeer 10, Wee ....... cs eee ees 


And in like manner the plaintiff paid to the defendant, 
Harry R. Weston, after he became State Treasurer, solely 
for the purpose of avoiding the aforesaid penalties, and 
under proper and sufficient and full protest, the following 
sums for gasoline put into its airplane tanks at Cheyenne 
and used in its said interstate commerce, to-wit: 


January 9, 1931 _. OTRAS Fie: CLIVE AE ies $762.68 
February 14, 1931 See 820.12 
Mareh 9, 1931, . ae 707.28 
RE ose cesar ys Siw oe sd bac ees 806.16 
ME FS ir xe a cee os ere 1,002.44 


And likewise, in order to escape the said penalties, the 
plaintiff, under proper, full and sufficient protest, paid to 
the defendant, Harry R. Weston, after he became State 
Treasurer, for gasoline placed in its airplanes at Rock 
Springs, used in such interstate commerce, the following 
sums, to-wit : 


oe | 


3 
4 
j 
i 
wy 
| 


56 


January 9, 1931 ........... ae _ $488.48 
I sg vv ea fais wees one Sees 492.00 
NE tore ON en) Sete Elle 2 ae 507.20 
April 13, 1931 ..... hs Sanc Seca hE Den rect rd 490.84 
eee Ape are ee Oh . 550.32 


16. And the court finds that during the period when these 
taxes were so as aforesaid collected the highest amount of 
ordinary tax for all purposes levied upon other personalty 
[fol. 57] in any year in Cheyenne, or in the County in which 
it is located, or in Rock Springs, or in the county in which 
it is located, or at any other place in Wyoming, did not ex- 
ceed four per centum of the value of such personalty as was 
owned on April Ist of the year of such levy by the person 
against whom the tax was levied, but the license tax against 
the gasoline used by the plaintiff in interstate commerce as 
above found exceeds twenty per centum of the value of all 
gasoline, not only all that owned by the plaintiff on any one 
day but twenty per centum of all that from time to time 
bought or used by the plaintiff in said interstate commerce 
business in Wyoming, although the plaintiff did not on 
April first of any year, or on any other day, own as much 
as one-tenth part of the gasoline upon which the said tax 
was exacted. 

That the said State of Wyoming by virtue of the provi- 
sions of Chapter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923; 
Chapter 89, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1925; Chapter 70, 
Session Laws of Wyoming, 1927; Chapter 139, Session 
Laws of Wyoming, 1929; Chapter 14, Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1929, Special Session, to the extent that the same 
are valid concerning the gasoline used in interstate com- 
merce, as herein found, through the State Treasurers of the 
State of Wyoming imposes and collects a tax per gallon 
upon all gasoline used by plaintiff at the municipal air field 
at Rock Springs and on all that used by plaintiff at the 
municipal air field at Cheyenne, Wyoming, including the 
gasoline placed by plaintiff in its airplanes at said fields 
used in both interstate and intrastate business. 

That the plaintiff has segregated that portion of the gaso- 
line used by it in propelling its airships in interstate com- 
merce from the gasoline used and/or sold by it for other 
purposes at said municipal air fields. 


—ooOoorr,— rh 


57 


17. The protested taxes here involved are still retained 
by the Treasurers to whom paid, that is to say, those paid 
to the defendant Edelman are still retained by him, and 
those paid to the defendant Weston are still retained by 
him. 

The non-protested taxes on gasoline, being taxes on gaso- 
line used otherwise than in interstate commerce, have been 
paid to the said cities respectively, the amount of such non- 
protested taxes upon gasoline used at the municipal air- 
port at Cheyenne being by the Treasurer paid over to the 
[fol. 58] said City of Cheyenne, and the amount of such 
non-protested taxes upon gasoline used at the municipal 
airport at Rock Springs being by the Treasurer paid over 
to the said City of Rock Springs. The amount of sueh 
money so received by the City of Cheyenne is retained in a 
separate fund for the use of the said air field. During the 
years last past not all of the money so received and so re- 
tained in this separate fund by the City of Cheyenne has 
been expended, but all of the same that was actually ex- 
pended was expended in connection with its said airport. 
The amount of such non-protested taxes received by the 
City of Cheyenne when added to the rentals received by 
said City from the plaintiff under the aforesaid contract 
exceeded the expense to said City of the maintenance of 
said air field and its supervision, during the specific time 
covered by the evidence in this cause. 

The municipal airport at the City of Rock Springs was 
maintained and supervised at the sole expense of the plain- 
tiff and without expense to said City of Rock Springs, and 
the plaintiff in addition has paid to the said City of Rock 
Springs for the use of said airport at the rate of $600.00 
per annum. During the specific time covered by the evi- 
dence in this cause the amount of such non-protested taxes 
received by the City of Rock Springs, when added to the 
rentals received by the said City from the plaintiff under 
its aforesaid contract, exceeded the expense to said City of 
the maintenance of said air field and its supervision. 


18. At the recent popular election in Cheyenne a bond 
issue was voted upon and approved by the people, authoriz- 
ing the expenditure of $15,000.00 for various purposes in 
connection with the improvement of its municipal air field. 


58 


19. That the gasoline upon which the tax was paid under 
protest was held in storage tanks owned by the plaintiff at 
said municipal airports, and the gasoline thus stored was at 
all times subject to such use as plaintiff might desire to 
make thereof. 


20. That the plaintiff, in the operation of its air trans- 
port line operates upon regular schedule between Chicago, 
Illinois, and San Francisco, California, and enjoys in con- 
nection with such operations a contract with the United 
States Government for the transportation of United States 
mail and also transports in its airplanes upon such regular 
[fol. 59] schedule between said designated points and inter- 
mediate points, passengers and express for hire. 


21. That in the operation of its airlines, it makes use of 
the municipal air landing fields located at Cheyenne, Wyo- 
ming, and at Rock Springs, Wyoming, at which points its 
planes are landed on schedule for discharge and reception 
of mail, passengers and express and to be refueled, ex- 
amined and conditioned. 


22. That the defendants, City of Cheyenne and City of 
Rock Springs, have each entered into agreements with the 
plaintiff whereby they have obligated themselves to provide 
and maintain said airport landing fields and to permit the 
plaintiff unlimited but not exclusive use thereof in connec- 
tion with its business. 


23. That said tax of four cents per gallon on gasoline 
imposed upon the plaintiff, is likewise imposed upon other- 
similarly situated, with the uniform application. To which 
finding, and to each separate matter therein, the plaintiff 
now at the time when the same is made excepts. 


24. That the plaintiff’s gasoline upon which such tax is 
imposed, has not previously been subjected to such tax, 
either within or without the State of Wyoming. To which 
finding, and to each separate matter therein, the plaintiff 
now at the time when the same is made excepts. 


II 
Conciusions or Law 


And upon the facets found as aforesaid the court makes 
the following conclusions of law, to-wit: 


PHU TA PNY, fe TIN 90 . y 


LT 


—, 1 gE NMI ON FELINE SE Pr BD EOL EOLA FOIE a ON POMS. 
2 


1. That the statute of December 21, 1929, so far as the 
same levies, or attempts to levy a tax of four cents per ~ 
gallon on gasoline taken into plaintiff’s airplanes at _ 
Cheyenne, and used as an instrumentality of interstate — 
commerce in propelling plaintiff’s airplanes in such com- ~ 
merce, was and is constitutional and valid under the facts 
and circumstances above found. To which finding and con- 
clusion of law the plaintiff now at the time excepts. 

And the court finds that the statute of December 21, 1929, 
so far as the same levies, or attempts to levy a tax of four 
cents per gallon on gasoline taken into plaintiff’s airplanes 
[fol. 60] at Rock Springs, and used as an instrumentality ; 
of intersiate commerce in propelling plaintiff’s airplanes 
in such commerce, was and is constitutional and valid under 
the facts and circumstances above found. To which find- 
ing and conclusion of law the plaintiff now at the time 
excepts. 


oh SERRE 


2. (a) That this action by the plaintiff so far as relates 
to the collection and threatened collection under the Wyo- 
ming Statute of December 21, 1929, of the tax of four 
cents per gallon on gasoline taken into plaintiff’s airplanes 
at Cheyenne and used in propelling said airplanes in plain- 
tiff’s interstate commerce, should be dismissed on the 
merits. To which finding and conclusion of law the plain- 
tiff now at the time excepts. 


(b) That this action by the plaintiff so far as relates to 
the collection and threatened collection under the Wyoming 
Statute of December 21, 1929, of the tax of four cents per 
gallon on gasoline taken into plaintiff’s airplanes at Rock 
Springs and used in propelling said airplanes in plaintiff’s 
interstate commerce, should be dismissed on the merits. 
To which finding and conclusion of law the plaintiff now 
at the time excepts, 


Ill 
DECREE 


It is therefore considered, ordered and adjudged by the 
court that as to the taxes on gasoline complained of taken 
into plaintiff’s airplanes at Cheyenne as an instrumental- 
ity of interstate commerce, the injunction prayed for is 


‘ : ' . . . = ™ ~ooteey Leen 


ee as 


& 


LEAR SOR Git s 


Bs 


60 


denied, and this cause is dismissed on the merits at the 
cost of the plaintiff. To which decree and order of the 
court, and to each matter therein, the plaintiff now at the 
time excepts. 

It is further considered, ordered and adjudged by the 
court that as to the taxes on gasoline complained of taken 
into plaintiff’s airplanes at Rock Springs as an instrumen- 
tality of interstate commerce, the injunction prayed for is 
denied, and this cause is dismissed on the merits at the 
costs of the plaintiff. To which decree and order of the 
court, and to each matter therein, the plaintiff now at the 
time excepts. . 

It is further ordered and decreed that the defendants, 
and each of them, do go hence without day and do have and 
recover of and from the plaintiff their costs herein, to be 
[fol.61] taxed. To which order and decree and to each 
part thereof the plaintiff now at the time excepts. 

And the plaintiff now prays an appeal herein to the 
United States Circuit Court for the Tenth Judicial Circuit, 
which prayer is now granted by the court. 

And the court now fixes the sum of $500.00 as the amount 
in which the plaintiff shall file its undertaking and bond, 
with proper surety, to be approved by this court, for the 
payment of costs on said appeal. 

Dated this 23d day of July, A. D. 1931. 

T. Blake Kennedy, Judge. 


Q. K. J. A. Greenwood, Atty. Gen., one of Attys. for 
Deft. State Treasurer of Wyo. 


In Unitrep States Districr Court 
Statement of Evidence—Filed Oct. 14, 1931 
Under Federal Mquity Rule No. 75 (b) 
Lodged with Clerk Aug. 20, 1931 
The following is appellants condensed statement in nar- 


rative form of the evidence given upon the trial of said 
cause. This is made pursuant to Equity Rule No. 75 (b) 


ee 


eae eee 


61 


and lodged in the Clerk’s office for examination by defend- 
ants as provided by said Rule. 


EVIDENCE 


For the purpose of this trial the defendants admit that 
the plaintiff is a corporation authorized to do business in 
Wyoming, as alleged in the petition. 


Testimony of Huan CorrmMan, a witness called on behalf 
of plaintiff: 


Direct examination: 


IT am Transfer Clerk on behalf of the United States Gov- 
ernment at the air field at Cheyenne and know what mail is 
handled by plaintiff through that field. The mail delivered 
at Rock Springs and taken up at Rock Springs for de- 
[fol. 62] livery elsewhere runs from one letter to twelve by 
each plane. Twelve would be a very large amount. Noth- 
ing originates at Rock Springs for Cheyenne. Practically 
all from Cheyenne to Rock Springs comes from outside of 
Wyoming and is interstate. The Rock Springs mail comes 
from Chicago, Omaha, Lincoln and North Platte, and I 
put it into a small pouch for Rock Springs. The pouch 
with its contents averages a pound and four ounces in 
weight. The pouch with its lock weighs thirteen ounces. 
The mail for Rock Springs and that for Los Angeles are 
put in the same compartment. 


Cross-examination: 


The Rock Springs mail is in the same mail pit with other 
mail going to other points but is in a separate pouch. I 
deliver the mail to the employee of the Boeing Company. 
No other mail goes to Rock Springs except that in the Rock 
Springs pouch. I know nothing about the express going to 
Rock Springs from other points. No mail goes east from 
Rock Springs. The only mail to Rock Springs is sent from 
Cheyenne. None is from other points in the State. It is 
from Cheyenne and from points south and east. There is 
no mail pouch from Rock Springs to Cheyenne. The mail 
from Rock Springs is never handled by the Boeing Com- 
pany until it reaches Cheyenne. It comes to Cheyenne by 


BOP A dy NEE TS ieddeiateaeaii, 


> PRIS FOES RI tet 


. 


62 


eastbound trains and is sent to the field at Cheyenne. No 
mail from Rock Springs addressed to points east is received 
at Rock Springs by the Boeing Company and carried to 
Salt Lake for transfer. Trains coming from the north and 
from Denver to Cheyenne and all trains centering at Chey- 
enne send all of their mail to the air field, and this pouch 
with Rock Springs mail as made up never exceeds twelve 
letters. Practically all of that comes from the east and 
south interstate. The Boeing planes going east do not stop 
at Rock Springs and carry no mail east from Rock Springs. 


D. B. CoLyer, a witness called on behalf of the plaintiff, 
testified : 


I am Vice-President in charge of operations of the plain- 


tiff. 


Witness identifies the Certificate with the Government 
under which plaintiff carries mail and said Certificate was 
[fol.63] admitted in evidence, marked Exhibit A. The 
same, omitting the recitals of statutes, authority, ete., and 
omitting signatures, is as follows: 


Exuisir A 


‘*‘Now, Therefore, pursuant to the authority in me vested 
by the provisions of said Act, I hereby certify that said 
Boeing Air Transport, Incorporated, of Seattle, Washing- 
ton, shall have the right, so long as it complies with all 
rules, regulations, and orders that may be issued by the 
Postmaster General for meeting the needs of the Postal 
Service and adjusting mail operation to advances in the 
art of flying and passenger transportation, to carry air 
mail over the route hereinafter set out or any modification 
thereof, at rates of compensation fixed herein, or to be 
fixed from time to time, at least annually, by the Postmas- 
ter General, provided that such rates shall not exce-d $1.25 
per mile for a period ending not more than ten years from 
the date of beginning service under said contract, to-wit, 
on the Fifth day of April, 1936; subject to the following 
conditions: 


Pe 


DUSTED ADMIT LOM AEN 


Terms and Conditions 


‘*1, The issuance of this certificate by the Postmaster 
General and its acceptance by the Carrier as hereinafter 
provided shall be deemed a full mutual release of the United 
States and the said Carrier from all the terms, conditions, 
and obligations of the air mail contract hereinbefore re- 
ferred to, dated the twenty-ninth day of January, 1927, from 
the date of the acceptance of this certificate, except com- 
pensation due for services performed prior to the date 
hereof, and upon the acceptance thereof the said Carrier 
shall surrender the said contract to the United States. 


‘*2. The route over which the Carrier shall have the right 
to carry air mail shall be from Chicago, Illinois, by Certain 
Designated Points, to San Francisco, California, and Re- 
turn, including any extension or other modification of said 
route that may be made as hereinafter provided. 


**3. Upon 60 days’ notice to the Carrier, the Posimaster 
General from time to time may modify said route by an ex- 
tension or extensions thereof, including lateral extensions 
or consolidations, and prescribe the schedule therefor in- 
| fol. 64] cluding the stops thereon, and determine the mile- 
age upon which the compensation of the Carrier is to be 
based, 


‘*4. For the purposes of this certificate the distance be- 
tween the terminal points of the route hereinbefore pre- 
scribed shall be deemed to be 2,025 miles. 


**5. The aireraft employed by the Carrier in the service 
authorized hereby shall be manufactured in the United 
States. They shall be of modern design, airworthy, and 
suitable for the service prescribed; the design and capacity 
of such aircraft, and the location, size and construction of 
the mail compartments therein, shall be subject to the ap- 
proval of the Postmaster General. 

‘*The following service may be prescribed by the Post- 
master General: 


A—Night Mail Service, 

B—Night Mail and Passenger Service, 
(‘—Day Mail Service, 

D—Day Mail and Passenger Service. 


% 
3 
é 
3 
& 
k 


64 


“6. Until and including the 31st day of December, 1930, 
or until otherwise directed by the Postmaster General, the 
Carrier shall provide the following service over said route: 


“*1. One flight by a plane having not less than 125 eubie 
feet of space for 2,000 pounds of air mail, and aeecommoda- 
tions for not less than eight passengers, departing from 
Chicago, Il., at 8 a. m., daily except Monday, to be classi- 
fied as Class D service, and payment made therefor at the 
rate of one dollar and eighteen and one-half cents ($1.1814) 
per mile, between Chicago, Tll., and Salt Lake City, Utah, 
until otherwise ordered. 

**2. One flight by a plane having from 80 to 100 eubie feet 
of space for 1,600 pounds of air mail, departing from Chi- 
cago, Ill., at 8 p. m., daily, to be classified as Class A serv. 
ice, and payment made therefor at the rate of one dollar 
and eighteen cents ($1.18) per mile, between Chicago, Til., 
and Salt Lake City, Utah, until otherwise ordered. 

“*3. One flight by a plane having from 80 to 100 cubic 
feet of space for 1,600 pounds of air mail, departing from 
Salt Lake City, Utah, eastbound, at 4 p. m., daily exeept 
Monday, to be classified as Class ( service, and payment 
[fol. 65] made therefore at the rate of one dollar and three 
cents ($1.03) per mile, between Salt Lake City, Utah, and 
Chicago, IIl., until otherwise ordered. 

**4. One flight by a plane having not less than 125 cubie 
feet of space of 2,000 pounds of air mail, and accommoda- 
tions for not less than eight passengers, departing from Salt 
Lake City, Utah, eastbound, at 4 a. m., daily, to be classified 
as Class B service, and payment made therefor at the rate 
of one dollar and eighteen and one-half cents ($1.18!) per 
mile for day flying and one dollar and twenty-five cents 
($1.25) per mile for night flying, between Salt Lake City, 
Utah, and Chicago, Ill., until otherwise ordered. 

‘*3. One flight by a plane having from 80 to 100 cubie feet 
of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, and accommodations 
for not less than ten passengers, departing from Salt Lake 
City, Utah, westbound, at 9 p. m., daily except Monday, to be 
classified as Class B service, and payment made therefor at 
the rate of one dollar and twenty-five cents ($1.25) per mile 
for night flying and one dollar and sixteen cents ($1.16) per 
mile for day flying, between Salt Lake City, Utah, and San 
Francisco, Calif., until otherwise ordered. 


a 


TT 


65 


**6. One flight by a plane having not less than 62.5 eubic 
feet of space for 1000 pounds of air mail, departing from 
Salt Lake City, Utah, westbound, at 9 a. m., daily to be 
classified as Class C service, and payment made therefor at 
the rate of ninety-five and one-half cents ($0.95'%) per mile, 
between Salt Lake City, Utah, and San Francisco, Calif., 
until otherwise ordered. 

**7. One flight by a plane having not less than 62.5 eubie 
feet of space for 1000 pounds of air mail, departing from 
San Francisco, Calif., at 8 a. m., daily except Monday, to be 
classified as Class C service, and payment made therefor 
at the rate of ninety-five and one-half cents ($0.95%2) per 
mile, between San Francisco, Calif., and Salt Lake City, 
Utah, until otherwise ordered. 

**8. One flight by a plane having from 80 to 100 eubic feet 
of space for 1600 pounds of air mail, and accommodations 
for not less than ten passengers, departing from San Fran- 
ciseo, Calif., at 8 p. m., daily, to be classified as Class B serv- 
ice, and payment made therefor at the rate of one dollar and 
twenty-five cents ($1.25) per mile for night flying and one 
| fol. 66] dollar and sixteen cents ($1.16) per mile for day 
fiving, between San Francisco, Calif., and Salt Lake City, 
Utah, until otherwise ordered. 


‘**7. Upon 60 days notice to the Carrier, the Postmaster 
General may increase, diminish, or modify the service above 
prescribed, and make such adjustments in the compensation 
of the Carrier as he may deem proper. 


**8. The Carrier shall transport the mails of the United 
States offered for carriage over the route hereinbefore set 
out with due celerity, in a safe and secure manner, free from 
wet or other injury, receiving and delivering the same at 
fields and points therein designated on schedule prescribed 
by the Postmaster General. 


‘*9. Payments shall be made to the Carrier monthly upon 
evidence that the service authorized hereby has been well 
and faithfully performed in accordance with the provisions 
hereof. 


‘10. The Carrier shall keep and maintain an accurate 
system of accounting in accordance with regulations pre- 


o—9d71 


66 


scribed by the Postmaster General. These accounts shall in- 
clude a record of all obligations, investments, expenditures, 
receipts and earnings from any source whatsoever, and shall 
be subject at all reasonable times to inspection and audit by 
the Post Office Department. The Carrier shall furnish to 
the Postmaster General such information regarding the ac- 
counts and operations as he may from time to time require. 


**11. The Carrier shall not directly, or indirectly, promote 
the use of the air mail over the route hereinabove set out, or 
any other air mail route, except in accordance with regula- 
tions prescribed by the Postmaster General. 


‘*12. This certificate is issued upon the express conditions 
that the said Carrier will hold itself subject to all the condi- 
tions imposed by the several Acts of Congress relating to the 
Air Mail Service and to all the provisions of the law relating 
to Post Offices and the Postal Service generally in so far as 
they are applicable to the Air Mail Service; that no Member 
of or Delegate to Congress shall be admitted io any share or 
part of the benefits accruing to it hereunder; and that it has 
not employed a third person to solicit or obtain the same, or 
to cause or procure the same to be obtained upon compensa- 
{fol. 67] tion in any way contingent, in whole or in part, 
upon such procurement; and that it has not paid, or prom- 
ised or agreed to pay, to any third person, in consideration 
of such procurement, or in compensation for service in con- 
nection therewith, any brokerage, commission, or percent- 
age, upon the amount receivable by it thereunder, and that 
it has not, in estimating the price at which it undertakes 
hereunder to carry the mail, included any sum by reason of 
any such brokerage, commission, or percentage, and that all 
money payable to it hereunder is free from obligation to 
any person for services rendered, or supposed to have been 
rendered, in the procurement of this certificate. And it is 
understood that a breach of this condition shall constitute 
adequate cause for the cancellation of this certificate by the 
Postmaster General, and that the United States may retain 
to its own use from any sums due or to become due there- 
under an amount equal to any brokerage, commission, or 
percentage so paid or agreed to be paid. 


**13. The said Carrier shall be responsible for the per- 
sons to whom it commits the custody and transportation of 


NF STN REPS ROA yet ee RAT URES TAN 


a 


SPD AT ot OORT a ede Ot. TTR 439 


f 
= 
4 
4 
+ 
£ 
% 


67 


the mails, and the observance of the law by such persons 
and the faithful performance of the duties required by it 
of them; and shall not commit the custody or transporta- 
tion of the mails to any person under sixteen years of age, 
nor to any person under sentence of imprisonment at hard 
labor imposed by a court having criminal jurisdiction, nor 
to any person not authorized by law to be concerned in con- 
tracts for carrying the mail. 


‘*14, The said Carrier shall be answerable in damages to 
the United States for any breach by it, or by its officers or 
agents, of the terms and conditions set out herein; and for 
such a breach, or for inferior service, or for loss of or dam- 
age to the mail through its fault or that of its officers or 
agents, the Postmaster General may make such deductions 
from the pay of the said Carrier as he may deem proper. 


‘*15. The Carrier shall be required to provide necessary 
workroom space in its buildings on the field, or fields, to 
permit proper handling and distribution of mails by Post 
Office Department employees. 


‘*16. This certificate may be cancelled by the Postmaster 
General at any time for willful neglect on the part of the 
holder to carry out any rules, regulations, or orders made 
[fol. 68] for its guidance, notice of such intended cancella- 
tion to be given in writing by the Postmaster General and 
forty-five days allowed the holder in which to show cause 
why the certificate should not be cancelled. 


‘*17. By agreement of the Postmaster General and the 
Carrier, the life of this certificate may be curtailed, said 
certificate may be cancelled, or any other modification may 
be made herein not inconsistent with law. 


“18. The Postmaster General shall have the right at any 
time during the period of service authorized hereby to 
require the Carrier to furnish surety other than that for 
which provision is hereafter made, and in his discretion to 
increase or reduce the amount of the bond that has been fur- 
nished by the Carrier. 


‘19. The delivery to and acceptance and approval by the 
Postmaster General of a bond in the sum of $251,000.00 con- 
ditioned upon the faithful and efficient performance in 
accordance with the terms and conditions hereinbefore set 


resets | 


EE EPER EEG LILY LG OLE ILE TEI AE RAEI ORAS RN ELA NT Pf 


68 


out, of the service intended to be authorized by this certifi- 
cate, duly executed by a surety acceptable to the Postmas- 
ter General; and the acceptance of this certificate upon the 
said terms and conditions, evidenced by the counter-signa- 
ture of the said carrier, shall be conditions precedent to 
the vesting of any right in the said Carrier by virtue 
hereof. 


Witness my hand and seal this 21st day of October, 1930, 
(Sgd.) Walter F. Brown, Postmaster General. 


Witness to signature of the Postmaster General: 
(Seal.) 


Accepted upon the terms and conditions above set out 
this 29th day of October, 1930. 
(Sgd.) Boeing Air Transport Inc., by James P. 
Murray. (Seal.) 


Bond 
(Corporate Surety) 


Know All Men By These Presents, That Boeing Air 
Transport, Inc., Principal, and U. 8S. Fidelity & Guaranty 
[ fol. 69] Co., as Sureties, are held and firmly bound unto the 
United States of America in the just and full sum of Two 
Hundred and Fifty-one Thousand ($251,000) lawful money 
of the United States, to be paid to the said United States of 
America or its duly appointed or authorized officer or 
officers to the payment of which, well and truly to be made 
and done, we bind ourselves, our heirs, executors, admin- 
istrators, successors and assigns, jointly and severally, 
firmly by these presents. 

Whereas, Boeing Air Transport, Inc., has executed a 
route certificate with the United States to carry the mail 
by aircraft on Route No. M 18, between Chicago, IIl., via 
certain designated points, and San Francisco, Calif., in ae- 
cordance with the stipulations and agreements contained 
in said certificate. 

‘‘Now, The Condition of The Said Obligation Is Such, 
That if the said Boeing Air Transport, Inc., carrier, shall 
perform said service according to the certificate aforesaid, 


- OF IS 


. Pe ee ae 
aa icin adeiaiieeaniinde 


FAN pis SEE ROY cnet ARRON MRT 


69 


then this obligation shall be void; otherwise to be in full 
force and obligation in law.”’ 


Witness then identified the contract made between the 
plaintiff and the City of Rock Springs. The same was in- 
troduced in evidence as Exhibit B. Said contract, includ- 
ing the contract between Rock Springs and the United 
States of America made a part thereof, and omitting signa- 
tures and parts merely formal, is as follows: 


Exuisir B 
‘*Lease 


‘This Indenture, made and entered into this 21 day of 
July, 1930, by and between The City of Rock Springs, a 
municipal corporation of the State of Wyoming, party of 
the first part, hereinafter called the lessor, and Boeing Air 
Transport, Ine., a corporation organized and existing under 
the laws of the State of Washington, party of the second 
part, hereinafter called the lessee, 

‘“Witnesseth: 

‘That in consideration of the mutual covenants herein 
contained, the parties hereto agree as follows: 


(fol. 70] Airport Landing Field 
Additional Ground and Privileges 


‘*The lessor does hereby grant to the lessee, during the 
term of this agreement, the non-exclusive use of the munici- 
pal airport of The City of Rock Springs, Wyoming, as 
shown on the blueprint hereto attached and more particu- 
larly described as follows: 


The N. ¥%, and the N. % of the S. % of Section Ten (10), 
Township Nineteen (19), North Range 105 West of the 
Sixth Prircipal Meridian, containing approximately 480 
acres, 


together with all improvements and equipment thereon, and 
in addition, leases a part or parcel of ground not smaller 
than 300’ x 150’ belonging to said airport, on a portion of 
which said lessee agrees to erect a building or hangar, for 


g 


RNG FOE BMT AGED ~ 


any and all uses of said lessee, in the handling of its busi- 
ness on said airport. Said tract or parcel of ground to be 
located on the field at a place to be mutually agreed upon by 
and between the parties hereto. 

‘‘The lessee agrees to pay the lessor, the sum of Five 
Hundred Dollars ($500.00) a year, for the use of said air- 
port and ground as described above upon which the build- 
ing to be erected by the lessee will be located. Said yearly 
payments shall be payable at the beginning of each year of 
the term of this agreement. The first payment, under this 
agreement, shall become due on the 21st day of July, 1930. 

‘‘The lessor further agrees to lease, from time to time, 
unto said lessee, any and all additional land or lands, not 
already under lease, forming a part of said airport, that 
said lessee may need for the erection of a building, or build- 
ings, thereon; said building or buildings to be used in con- 
nection with said lessee’s business, and said lessee agrees 
to pay as rent, for said additional land or lands, so leased 
and used as above set forth, the sum of one cent (1c) per 
square foot per annum in advance. 

‘‘The lessor agrees to use all funds collected from lessee 
for ground or building rental for improvement and enlarge- 
ment of landing field or facilities pertaining thereto. 
[fol.71] ‘‘The lessor further agrees that the lessee is to 
have the exclusive right and privilege of selling all gaso- 
line and oils to all itinerant flyers using said airport, it be- 
ing understood, however, that all persons using said air- 
port in regular transcontinental service or in regular serv- 
ice from point to point, and under an agreement with the 
lessor, shall have the privilege of furnishing their own 
gasoline and oils to their own ships, if they so desire. It 
being further understood, that said exclusive privilege for 
the sale of gasoline and oils, shall be, considered as a lease 
privilege, and shall be in full force and effect during the 
pendency of this lease and agreement. The lessee agrees 
to have and maintain at said field men and equipment for 
the servicing and repairing of aircraft, but the lessee shall , 
not be required to service or repair aircraft when such F 
servicing or repairing calls for facilities that would not in 
the usual course be maintained on said airport under the 
existent circumstances. The lessor does hereby grant to 
the lessee the exclusive privilege of servicing and/or re- 
pairing aircraft on said airport at reasonable rates. 


ATE ISELIN ALD ATI DE. BHI . * _— . CERAM — ae 


ae ABE th AE RA BUEN SAS NEI ONSE SEE NEES TARPS 


“The lessor agrees to cooperate with lessee in further 
grading and leveling of present field and to further enlarge 
the present field where possible. The lessor further agrees 
to keep said landing field, and the approaches to said land- 
ing field, clear of obstructions. 

‘‘The lessee agrees to supervise and manage said land- 
ing field for and on behalf of the lessor and under the di- | 
rection of said lessor. The lessee further agrees to super- ~ 
vise and manage on behalf of the lessor and under the di- 
rection of the lessor the maintenance and upkeep of said 
landing field and the improvements and equipment thereon; 
said supervision and management to be without cost to the 
said lessor. 

‘It is agreed that the lessee may at its option and after 

giving the lessor 90 days’ notice, terminate its obligation 
and duty to supervise and manage said landing field and 
airport and the maintenance and upkeep thereof. It is 
agreed that if the lessee shall terminate its obligation and 
duty to supervise and manage said landing field and air- 
port, as aforesaid, that the annual rental to be paid by the 
lessee hereunder shall be increased not more than Thirty- 
six Hundred Dollars ($3,600.00) during entire term of 
lease. 
[fol. 72] ‘*The lessor shall bear all expense incident to the 
maintenance and upkeep of said airport and the improve- 
ments and equipment thereon except as otherwise herein 
specifically provided. 

‘‘The parties hereto agree each with the other to exert 
their best efforts to preserve the present airport intact and 
prevent the erection of improvements or obstructions 
thereon or nearby that will detract from the value of the 
field. It is further agreed that this agreement shall cover 
all additional real property acquired by the lessor for the 
purpose of adding to and/or enlarging or improving said 
airport. 


Hangar and Office Building 


‘“‘The lessor does hereby grant to the lessee during the 
term of this agreement the exclusive use of the hangar and 
office building now on said airport. The lessee shall have 
the privilege of renting space in said building at reason- 
able rates and said rentals shall become the property of the 
lessee. 


TOE POR —" 


ee eka eR 


72 


‘*The lessee agrees to use reasonable efforts to keep said 
present hangar and office building in a reasonable state of 
repair during the term of this agreement, provided, how- 
ever, that if said building should become obsolete or 
generally decayed or unsound, the lessee shall be relieved 
of its obligation to repair said building. The lessee agrees 
to keep said hangar and office building insured for and on 
behalf of the lessor, at eighty per cent (80%) of its then 
value, and to pay the premiums of said insurance. 


Future Buildings and Improvements 


‘‘The lessor may enter into agreements with third per- 
sons, which provide for the privilege of using said air field 
and for the construction of buildings or other improve- 
ments, for the use of said third persons, on or adjacent to 
said airport, provided, however, no buildings shall be 
erected or improvements made which will detract from the 
value of said airport and/or interfere with the use or en- 
joyment of said airport by the lessee. 


Lighting 


‘‘The lessor agrees to improve and extend the present 
landing field lighting system, should it later become neces- 
[fol. 73] sary, so as to include and cover all of said landing 
field, and to provide all necessary extensions due to field 
changes, and the lessee agrees at the option of the lessor, 
to install said extended and improved lighting system, so 
that the same meets with the approval of the Department 
of Commerce of the United States, at the cost and expense 
of said lessee and the lessor agrees with said lessee, to re- 
imburse said lessee by permitting said lessee to deduct said 
expenses and costs from the rents due or to become due. 

‘“The lessee agrees to operate all lighting equipment now 
used in lighting said landing field at its own expense and 
without cost to the lessor, including electric current; said 
operation to be for the benefit of all planes that may travel 
the airways at night. The lessee also agrees to keep all 
such lighting equipment in good, serviceable condition at 
its own expense. The lessee further agrees to operate and 
maintain at its own expense ali additional lighting equip- 
ment placed upon said airport with the consent of the 
lessor. 


es 


SA SPS OYA NAIR RIAD ARENA COATES SV EURO 


73 
Water 


‘‘The lessor agrees to run a 2” water line from the most 
adjacent point on the present Green River water supply 
system supplying the City of Rock Springs and Reliance 
to a point designated by lessee adjacent to said proposed 
buildings at the cost and expense of said lessee, to reim- 
burse said lessee by permitting said lessee to deduct said 
expenses and costs from the rents due or to become due, 
at an amount of Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00) per annum. 
Lessee agrees to pay all regular water charges for water 
used by them. It being agreed by the lessor that said water 
supply system will be completed within fifteen (15) days 
after the date of signing the lease in order to permit !essee 
to start building construction. 


Regular Users 


‘“‘The lessor may make agreements with regular users 
of said landing field covering the use of said landing field 
by said regular users, provided, however, that said agree- 
ments shall in no wise infringe upon rights and/or privi- 
leges herein granted to the lessee. 

‘‘The lessee may charge regular users of said airport 
reasonable rates for the use of the field lighting equip- 
[fol.74] ment, and/or other improvements constructed 
and/or maintained by the lessee. 


Itinerant Flyers 


‘*No charge shall be assessed by the lessee against itiner- 
ant flyers for the use of lighting equipment and/or other 
improvements constructed and/or maintained on said land- 
ing field at the expense of the lessee. By ‘Itinerant flyer’ is 
meant a non-commercial flyer who is not a regular user of 
the airport and uses it on infrequent occasions. 


Radio 


‘*The lessee is hereby given the privilege of installing in 
the present hangar or new buildings any radio equipment 
it may desire, or of building a radio plant to be used in 
connection with the lessee’s business at said field. 


: 
e 
P 3 
§ 


y 


74 
Liability 


‘“‘The lessee agrees to hold the lessor harmless of and 
from any and all liability arising from injuries to persons 
or damage to property caused by aircraft of the lessee or 
otherwise caused by the lessee when acting in the capacity 
of a user of said airport. 

‘“‘The lessor agrees to hold the lessee harmless of and 
from any and all liability incurred by the lessee by reason 
of the supervision and management of said airport by the 
lessee for and in behalf of the lessor. 

‘‘The lessor agrees to secure agreements from all regular 
users of the airport releasing the lessor and the lessee from 
all liability arising from injuries to the persons or prop- 
erty of said users and indemnifying the lessor and lessee 
against all liability arising from injuries to persons or 
property caused by said users while using said airport. 


Policing of Field 


‘*In the event of the existence of unusual conditions the 
lessor agrees to request necessary policing for said airport 
from County upon request by the lessee. 


Lessor to Prescribe and Enforce Rules and Regulations 


‘‘The lessor agrees to adopt and to enforce rules and 
regulations governing the proper use of said airport and 
[fol. 75] its facilities. The lessor agrees that said rules 
and regulations shall give the right of way to inbound or 
outbound transport and mail planes and that said rules 
and regulations shall not conflict with the rules and regula- 
tions of the Department of Commerce of the United States 
Government. 


Additional Charges 


‘‘The lessor agrees that it will impose no charge of any 
kind or character upon materials and/or products pur- 
chased or otherwise acquired by the lessee for use on said 
airport, nor shall a charge be imposed by said lessor upon 
materials and/or products prior to their acquisition by the 
said lessee. 

‘“‘The lessor agrees that all other companies affiliated 
with the lessee may use said airport under the terms and 


EEN TENE EER REY RE GO ET IRM YEE Ey INTIS AED TI EY MIE ENTER TPN PU 


ae KP Suet SRP LR 


conditions herein provided and that no rents or charges 
need be paid by said affiliated companies for said use. 


Removal or Disposal of Improvements 


‘¢All buildings erected by the lessee on said airport and 
all equipment heretofore and/or hereafter installed on said 
airport by the lessee, and all field equipment furnished by 
the lessee at its expense, shall remain the property of the 
lessee, and upon the termination of this agreement, may be 
removed from said airport by said lessee or otherwise dis- 
posed of within six months after the termination of this 
agreement. 


Termination of Existing Agreement 


“‘That certain contract dated April 5, 1927, between the 
parties hereto and relating to the use and occupation of the 
City of Rock Springs airport is hereby terminated. The 
rights of the parties hereto prior to the date hereof shall 
be determined by the provisions of said contract of April 
5, 1927, and the rights of the parties hereto shall be here- 
after defined by the terms of the herein agreement. 


Equality of Users 


‘‘The lessor agrees that it will not, during the existence 
of this lease, permit any other person any use of all or any 
portion of said airport on terms more favorable than those 
herein provided for the lessee. 

‘“‘Tt is agreed that the term of this lease and agreement 
[fol. 76] shall be for a period equal to the period granted 
by the United States Department of Interior to the City of 
Rock Springs for said airport, copy of which is attached. 
An option to the lessee by the lessor to renew said lease is 
granted, providing the City of Rock Springs is successful 
in renewing its lease for said airport with the United States 
Department of Interior; it being understood that the period 
of lease be equal to the period granted in the new lease by 
the United States Department of Interior to City of Rock 
Springs. Rental charges shall be adjusted by and between 
the lessor and the lessee for the purpose of establishing the 
amount of the rents to be charged and paid for the new 
period ensuing. In the event said lessor and said lessee 


75 


25 Lh OAS ORT 


76 


cannot agree, then and in that event said matter shall be 
decided by a Board of Arbitration consisting of three (3) 
members chosen in the following manner: The lessor shall 
select one (1) member, the lessee shall select one (1) mem- 
ber, and the two (2) members, so selected, shall select a 
third member. Said arbitrators shall meet within a reason- 
able time and without delay and promulgate such rules as 
they deem necessary for their procedure, and shall make 
findings as to the amount of rent to be charged and paid for 
the next period ensuing for all of the privileges and prop- 
erty leased herein or hereafter leased in accordance with 
the terms of this agreement, and their findings shall be 
binding upon the parties hereto and the amount established 
by said arbitrators shall be the amount charged and paid as 
rent for the next ensuing period. 

“*It is agreed that upon the termination of the carriage of 
United States Air Mail by the lessee, the lessee shall have 
the right at its option to terminate this agreement upon 
first giving to the lessor six (6) months’ notice, in writing, 
of its intention so to do. 

‘It is further agreed that if the United States Govern- 
ment should eliminate the City of Rock Springs as a stop- 
ping point upon the air mail route covered by the lessee, the 
lessee may at its option terminate this agreement upon first 
giving to the lessor 90 days’ notice, in writing, of its inten- 
tion so to do. 

‘*It is agreed that in the event of a breach of any of the 
covenants of the lessee herein contained the lessor may 
serve notice, in writing, that if said breach is not cured 
[fol. 77] within 60 days after the service of said notice this 
said agreement shall be terminated. If said breach has not 
been cured within said 60 day period the lessor may declare 
this lease and agreement at an end, and of no force and 
effect, and said lessor may recover possession of said air- 
port privileges and leaseholds, as if held by forcible de- 
tainer, and said lessee hereby waives notice or demand for 
the possession of the same and agrees to vacate the prem- 
ises, provided that lessee may nevertheless remove build- 
ings and personal property from said airport as heretofore 
set forth. 

‘‘The lessor agrees that the lessee may assign this lease, 
provided, however, that upon the assignment thereof the 
lessor may terminate that portion of this agreement which 


GEE AE DOP ILE EEL ELLE EIEIO LEOE LG EL ELEN IT —————— 


77 


provides that the lessee shall supervise and manage said 
airport, and the assignee of said lease shall thereupon as- 
sume the management of said field or pay an additional 
rental of Thirty-six Hundred Dollars ($3,600.00) per 
annum. 

‘It is further agreed by the parties hereto that the terms 
of this lease are all subject to the terms, covenants and 
agreements contained in that certain lease granted to the 

lessor herein by the United States of America, by and 
through the Department of the Interior, a copy of which 

| last said lease shall be recorded in the office of the County 

Clerk and Ex-Officio Register of Deeds of Sweetwater 3 

. 

| 


County. 

‘And the City of Rock Springs hereby agrees to do and 
perform each and every act binding upon the City of Rock 3 
Springs by said last named lease, and upon the failure of x 
the City of Rock Springs to perform said obligations con- 
tained in said last named lease, or any of them, then and in 
that case, the lessee herein shall have the right, for and in 
behalf of the City of Rock Springs, of performing all such 
obligations, as fully, and with the same force and effect, as 
though the lessor, the City of Rock Springs, had performed 
those things incumbent therein upon it to perform. 

“Tt is further agreed by and between the parties hereto 
that the conditions, covenants and agreements herein con- 
tained to be performed by the lessee are to be construed as 
conditions subsequent in contract, and which it shall be in- 
cumbent upon the lessee to do and perform, according to 
the letter and spirit thereof.’’ 


[fol. 78] **4-455 (March, 1930) 


United States Department of the Interior, General Land 
Office 


Lease of Lands for Use as a Publie Airport 
Act May 24, 1928, Public No. 499 
(To be executed in quadruplicate) 
Evanston 016842. Serial No. ‘‘*K’? MKH 


* RL Ce ee 


WAP ER Tee oe et 


We 


aa ape 4 ols SD 


maT RE MAGTE 


‘“‘This Indenture of lease entered into this — day of 

, 19—, by and between the United States of America, 
party of the first part, hereinafter called the lessor, acting 
in this behalf by the Assistant Secretary of the Interior, 


Pere PP REREEY Let PEPE ITS LE 


PIMPIN ILI SIE ULF 


- “a 
eae KOSS —< 


78 


and the City of Rock Springs, a municipal corporation, of 
the County of Sweetwater, State of Wyoming, party of the 
second part, hereinafter called the lessee, under, pursuant, 
and subject to the terms and conditions of the act of Con- 
gress of May 24, 1928 (Public No. 499), entitled ‘An Act 
to authorize the leasing of public lands for use as public 
aviation fields,’ and the regulations thereunder: 
‘*Witnesseth : 


*‘Section 1. That the lessor, in consideration of rents to 
be paid and the covenants to be observed as herein set 
forth, does hereby grant and lease to the lessee the exclu- 
sive right and privilege of maintaining an airport on the 
following described tract of land, to-wit: The N. ™%, and 
the N. \% of the S. % of Section Ten (10), Township Nine- 
teen (19), North Range 105 West Sixth P. M. containing 
approximately 480 acres, together with the right to con- 
struct and maintain thereon all buildings or other improve- 
ments necessary as an airport for the accommodation of 
the public for a period of 20 years and if at the end of said 
period the Secretary of the Interior shall determine that a 
new lease should be granted, the lessee herein will be ac- 
corded a preference right thereto upon such terms and for 
such duration as may be fixed by the lessor. 


‘Section 2. For and in consideration of the foregoing, 
the lessee hereby agrees: 


{fol.79] ‘‘(a) To establish a public airport on said tract 
and to maintain same during the life of this lease. 


‘*(b) To pay the lessor a yearly rental of ten dollars. 


‘*(¢) To complete the construction of facilities for serv- 
ice, fuel and other supplies necessary to make the land 
available for public use as an airport within six months 
from the execution of this lease. 


‘*(d) That he will at all times keep the airport equipped 
and maintained in accordance with the ratings set by the 
Department of Commerce. 


‘“(e) That all departments and agencies of the Govern- 
ment operating aircraft shall have free and unrestricted 
use of the airport and with the approval of the lessor shall 
have the right to erect and insta!! thereon such structures 


a ———————— 
79 


and improvements as the heads of such departments and 
agencies deem advisable including facilities for maintain- 
ing supplies of fuel, oil, and other materials for operating 
aircraft. 


‘*(f) That whenever the President may deem it neces- 
sary for military purposes, the Secretary of War may as- 
sume full control of the airport. 


**(g) Not to allow the use of the premises included in 
this lease for unlawful purposes, or for any purpose not in 
harmony with the proper use as an airport. 


‘*(h) That authorized representatives of the lessor or of 
the Department of Commerce shall at any time have the 
right to enter the leases premises for the purpose of in- 
spection and shall have free access to the books containing 
records of operations under authority of this lease. 


‘*(i) Not to assign this lease without the consent of the 
Secretary of the Interior first had and obtained. 


**Section 3. It is further understood and agreed that 
rates and prices for accommodation and service may be 
fixed by the Secretary of the Interior whenever it is deemed 
necessary. 


‘*(a) That if the lessee shall fail to use the premises or 
any part thereof, or shall use it or any part thereof for- 
eign to the proper use, or shall fail to pay the annual rental 
or any part thereof, or shall fail to comply with the pro- 
visions of this lease or shall fail to maintain the premises 
[fol. 80] according to the ratings set by the Department of 
Commerce, the lessor may, in his discretion, terminate and 
cancel this lease. 


‘*(b) That upon the termination of this lease by expira- 
tion or forfeiture thereof, or whenever the United States 
may claim the right of possession as herein provided, the 
lessee agrees to surrender possession of the premises to 
the United States and to comply with such provisions and 
conditions respecting the removal of the improvements 
and equipment on the property as may be made by the Sec- 
retary of the Interior.’’ 


The witness then identified the contract between the 
plaintiff and the City of Cheyenne, which was then intro- 


ETI LIL RE BPS LCS 


0 


duced in evidence as Exhibit C. The said agreement with 
the City, omitting the testamonium clause and signatures 
and acknowledgments, is as follows: 


Exuisir C 
‘* Agreement 


‘‘This Agreement, Made in duplicate this first day of 
July, A. D. 1929, by and between the City of Cheyenne, a 
municipal corporation located and existing in the County 
of Laramie and State of Wyoming, hereinafter called the 
‘City,’ party of the first part, and Boeing Air Transport, 
Inec., a private corporation organized and existing under 
and by virtue of the laws of the State of Washington and 
authorized to transact business within the State of Wy- 
oming, hereinafter called ‘Boeing Company,’ party of the 
second part, 

‘*Witnesseth: 

‘‘That whereas, the City is the owner of a municipal 
airplane field located within the corporate limits of Chey- 
enne, which it desires and intends to develop in an effort to 
establish Cheyenne as a center of airplane traffic; and, 

‘‘Whereas, the Boeing Company now operates an air- 
plane line extending from Chicago, in the State of Illinois, 
to San Francisco, in the State of California, passing 
through Cheyenne, which transports passengers, mail and 
express, and hopes to continue such operations; and, 

‘*Whereas, the Boeing Company believes that the provi- 
sions hereof make it advantageous for it to center the op- 
erations of said Chicago-Francisco line at Cheyenne as 
{fol. 81] herein set forth, and the City believes that induc- 
ing the Boeing Company to so center its operations will aid 
in the development of said field as an aviation center, and 
that such development would tend to materially increase the 
prosperity of Cheyenne, 

‘‘Now, Therefore, in consideration of the premises and 
the mutual covenants and agreements herein made and of 
the benefits and advantages which will be obtained by each 
of the parties hereby it is agreed as follows: 


**1, That said municipal airplane field is located in the 
northeast portion of Cheyenne, and that its exact location, 


wel 


———— 
2 YR ARPES SE EEL RL ILO NIRS 


81 


boundaries, etc., are shown by the map ‘Exhibit A’ which 
is hereto attached and hereby made a part hereof. 


‘*2. That said municipal airplane field is at the date 
hereof bounded and surrounded by a line of field lights, 
which are shown on ‘Exhibit A’ and that said field shall 
be immediately enlarged to include all of the area indicated 
on ‘Exhibit A’ as included within the red line, and that the 
words ‘municipal field’ where hereinafter used shall mean 
and denote said enlarged field and all of the portion within 
said red line. That the parties immediately after the en- 
sealing hereof shall proceed to grade and prepare all of 
the new area to be included in said municipal field, and as 
soon as said new area has been properly graded and pre- 
pared shall install a new lighting system marking the 
boundary of said municipal field. The cost of all of the 
work of preparing and grading the new area and the cost 
of the new lighting equipment and the installation thereof 
shall be divided equally between the parties, the total cost 
not to exceed Seven Thousand Dollars ($7,000.00). 


‘*3. The City agrees to use all reasonable efforts to ac- 
quire at its own expense the land included within the area 
which is indicated on ‘Exhibit A’ by the No. 12, and after 
acquiring the same and during the entire period in which 
the Boeing Company shall make any use of said municipal 
field under the provisions hereof that it will keep all of 
said area, or as much thereof as it may acquire, free from 
all buildings and/or obstructions. 


‘4. That those areas indicated on ‘Exhibit A’ by the num- 
bers 11 and 14 are now owned by the City, and that the City 
shall retain title to the same during the entire period in 
[fol. 82] which the Boeing Company shall make any use of 
said municipal field under the provisions hereof, and dur- 
ing all of said period the City will keep all of each of said 
areas free from all buildings and/or obstructions. 


‘5. That the City will permit the United States Weather 
Bureau to use and occupy that building located on the mu- 
nicipal field as shown by Number 7 on ‘Exhibit A’ and 
known as the Weather Bureau Building, on such terms as 


6—571 


a 
& 
& 
= 
é 
t 


82 


may be mutually agreeable to the City and the Weather Bu- 
reau during the entire term hereof. 


‘*6. That that certain building known as the Administra- 
tion Building and located on the said municipal field as indi- 
eated by Number 6 on ‘Exhibit A’ shall be used as an 
administration building during the entire term hereof 
under the direction of the City, and that the Boeing Com- 
pany may for the considerations herein mentioned, use and 
occupy that portion of said building which it now uses and 
occupies during the period it shall manage the field. 


“‘7. The City agrees that that certain space and area 
on the westerly boundary of said municipal field indicated 
on ‘Exhibit A’ by the number 15 shall be kept free and 
open during the entire term hereof as a taxi-way and as an 
approach and exit for planes landing on said field or taking 
off therefrom. 


**8. That the City has leased and let and does hereby 
lease and let to the Boeing Company for the term of twenty- 
five (25) years from the date hereof the four hangars and 
the control house belonging to the City located on said field, 
the exact location being shown on ‘Exhibit A’ by the num- 
bers 1, 2, 3 and 4, and by the letter C. The Boeing Company 
agrees to pay as rental for the buildings leased to it by this 
paragraph the sum of Three Thousand Dollars ($3,000.00) 
per year, the said rental to be first paid one year from the 
date hereof, that is to say, on July 1, 1930, and to be pay- 
able on July Ist in each and every year thereafter during 
the continuance hereof. The Boeing Company shall also 
during all of said term at its own expense keep the said 
hangars insured at eighty per cent of their value in the 
name of the City and in reasonable repair. 


‘*9. The Boeing Company agrees during the entire period 
of its lease of said City hangars, to provide reasonable me- 
[fol.83] chanical service to visiting airplanes and to fur- 
nish visiting airplanes with supplies at prices not exceeding 
those charged at other fields similarly located, the Boeing 
Company, however, shall not be obliged to provide either 
mechanical service or supplies at a price less than the cost 
thereof. The Boeing Company also agrees to furnish 
hangar space at reasonable prices to visiting airplanes 
when it shall have such hangar space available. 


ERE SS GEE REIL EE PES I LIS SB PE PEANIETEE SEV TSS ES Sy 


aa 


83 


**10. That the City has leased and let and does hereby 
lease and let to the Boeing Company for the term of twenty- 
five (25) years from the date hereof that rectangular tract 
of land located easterly from the said hangars, and shown 
on ‘Exhibit A’ by the number 8, and more particularly 
hereinafter described as a site on which it may construct 
hangars and/or buildings useful to it in connection with its 
airplane operations. The said rectangular tract of land 
referred to in this paragraph as ‘hangar space’ is two hun- 
dred (200) feet in depth measured in an easterly and west- 
erly direction and seven hundred (700) feet in width meas- 
ured in a northerly and southerly direction. The metes and 
bounds description of said hangar space is as follows: 


‘‘Beginning at a point 490.5 feet west and 117.2 feet north 
of the center of Section 30, T. 14 N., R. 66 W., of the 6th 
P. M., thence west on first course, parallel to the north and 
south center line of said section 30, 200 feet, thence north E 
on second course, and at right angles to the aforesaid line, i 
700 feet, thence east on third course, parallel to the center 
line of Section 30, 200 feet, thence south, parallel to second 
course, 700 feet to point of beginning. 


f 
e 
= 
* 
* 


‘“‘The Boeing Company agrees to begin within ninety 
(90) days from the date hereof the construction of a hangar 
on said hangar space to cost not less than Fifty Thousand 
Dollars ($50,000.00). The said hangar shall have masonry 
walls, with steel frames. 

‘‘The City also leases to the said Boeing Company as 
taxi-ways for said hangar space and for the four hangars 
leased to the Boeing Company by paragraph numbered 8 
herein, all of that space marked ‘Taxi-way’ east of the said 
hangar space number ‘8’ and all of the space between said 
hangar space number ‘8’ and the said hangars leased to the 
Boeing Company by said paragraph number ‘8’. The City 
[fol. 84] aiso leases to the Boeing Company the easterly 
half of the space between hangar space number ‘8’ and the 
space numbered ‘5’ already leased by the City. The Boeing 
Company shall maintain, repair, and, if necessary for the 
use of the Boeing Company, improve the said taxi-ways 
herein leased to it, and at its own expense shall furnish 
such light therein as may be necessary for its own uses. 

‘*The Boeing Company shall pay Ten Hundred and Fifty 
Dollars ($1050.00) as annual rental for said hangar space 


© 
ee 


ose . , - — — — - — 
RAL ADRS ngs a aacniayt Petar RRR RE METRE EL PNET E DLE ESL TELE LOEDSIIS IIE OE EA TR ION ee | 


CREEL IE EER EE FI ILRI PIONS SIPS 


84 


and taxi-ways, the first payment to be due one year after 
the date hereof, to-wit, on July 1, 1930, and except as here- 
inafter limited the Boeing Company shall pay said annual 
rental on July 1st of each and every year thereafter during 
the period it shall occupy any portion of said hangar space 
as a tenant of the City. Should the Boeing Company fail 
to begin the construction of a second building on said 
hangar space within five (5) years from the date hereof, 
then and in that event the lease shall terminate as to the 
northerly third of said hangar space, but remain in full 
force and effect as to the southerly two-thirds thereof. 

‘‘Should the Boeing Company fail within ten (10) years 
from the date hereof to begin the construction of two build- 
ings additional to the said hangar to be begun within 
ninety days the lease shall terminate as to each third of 
said hangar space (the said thirds to be measured in a 
northerly and southerly direction) which does not contain 
a building of the Boeing Company but shall remain in full 
force and effect as to the balance of said hangar space. In 
the event of the termination of the lease as to any portion 
of the hangar space the annual rental shall be proportion- 
ately reduced. The Boeing Company agrees that airplanes 
properly using the municipal field may taxi across any one 
of the said thirds of the said hangar space prior to the con- 
struction of a building thereon by the Boeing Company. 
On the final termination of the lease of any of the said 
thirds of said hangar space which contains a building or 
buildings constructed by the Boeing Company the City will 
either extend the period of the lease to said third or thirds 
containing a building of the Boeing Company for an addi- 
tional period of fifteen (15) years upon the terms herein 
provided or it will cause such building ildings to be 
purchased from the Boeing Company af their then value. 
[fol. 85] The said value shall be determined by three ap- 
praisers. Each of the parties shall appoint one of said 
ay praisers and the two so appointed shall choose the third 
appraiser. 


**11. The City agrees that that certain area shown on 
‘Exhibit A’ by the number 10 shall be kept and maintained 
by the City as a site for additional hangars, the hangars 
erected thereon to be erected under regulations prescribed 
by the City but in no case to exceed twenty-five (25) feet 
in height over all. 


: 
: 


85 


‘*12. That there are now located on the municipal field 
four hangars owned by the City, indicated on ‘Exhibit A’ 
by the numbers 1, 2, 3 and 4, and an additional hangar 
within that general area indicated on ‘Exhibit A’ by the 
number ‘5’, and that said area number ‘5’ is now under 
lease by the City, and that there is now located on the 
municipal field an administration building, indicated on 
‘Exhibit A’ by the number 6, and that there is a weather 
bureau building on the municipal field indicated on ‘Ex- 
hibit A’ by the number 7, and a control house indicated on 
‘Exhibit A’ by the Letter ‘C’, and that said ‘Exhibit A’ also 
indicates a hangar space marked number 8, which is herein 
leased to the Boeing Company, and that an additional 
space set apart for hangars is indicated on ‘Exhibit A’ 
by the number 9. The City agrees that no additional or 
further obstructions will be permitted on the municipal 
field during the term hereof except those already thereon 
as in this paragraph indicated and except those which may 
be erected on the area number 5 now under lease by the 
City and on the area number 8 herein leased to the Boeing 
Company, and on the area number 9 reserved for future 
hangars. The City agrees that all buildings to be con- 
structed on the said municipal field or adjacent thereto on 
property owned by the said City shall have masonry walls 
with steel frames, and that such spaces will be provided 
between buildings as may be necessary for reasonable fire 
protection. The City agrees that all spaces indicated on 
‘Exhibit A’ as taxi-ways shall be kept free and open for 
the use of persons (including the Boeing Company) having 
buildings served by such taxi-ways. The portion of said 
municipal field remaining after excluding therefrom that 
portion covered by the buildings and by the hangar spaces 
in this paragraph above specifically described, and the taxi- 
ways, indicated on ‘Exhibt A’, is hereinafter referred to 
as ‘landing field.’ The Boeing Company shall have full 
[fol. 86] but not exclusive use of the said landing field. 


‘*13. The City agrees to keep the said landing field dur- 
ing the term of this agreement end during the entire period 
in which the Boeing Company shall oeceupy any portion 
of said municipal field as a tenant of the City as a suitable, 
well maintained and well regulated airplane landing field 
for the reasonable use of any and all planes and/or air 


os 
4 
eee ea eee RR OR Te ee | 


OY 
86 


ships operated by the Boeing Company. While the City 
does not agree that the planes of the Boeing Company shall 
have any greater or better right to make use of the land- 
ing field than it grants other users, yet the City agrees 
that the Boeing Company shall have rights on the landing 
field and on the municipal field fully equal to that granted 
to any other user. The City also agrees that during the 
entire term hereof it will prescribe and enforce on said 
landing field, and municipal field reasonable and efficient 
regulations governing the use thereof, and the City agrees 
that such regulations shall give the right of way to inbound 
or outbound transport and mail planes, provided that such 
regulations shall not conflict with the Department of Com- 
merce regulations. 


“14. The City agrees that the Boeing Company shall be 
entitled to the full use of said municipal field and landing 
field during the term hereof on terms as favorable as may 
be granted by the City to any other user thereof, and that 
no charge shall be exacted from the Boeing Company for 
any use which it may make thereof additional to that herein 
specifically provided. 


‘15. The Boeing Company shall superintend, manage and 
operate the said municipal field and landing field for and 
on behalf of the City and under its direction, throughout 
the period during which it shall hold a contract with the 
United States of America to carry mail through Cheyenne 
on the transcontinental route. The term and period of 
said management shall not exceed twelve (12) years from 
the date hereof. The Boeing Company shall during the 
period of such management keep and maintain at said mu- 
nicipal field continuously throughout the entire twenty-four 
hours of each and every day an officer to superintend and 
direst the management of said municipal field and landing 
field and caretakers to assist in such management and direc- 
tion. The Boeing Company under the City’s direction shall 
superintend the maintenance and upkeep of the municipal 
[fol.87] field and landing field and its equipment, includ- 
ing ‘he lighting equipment and, under the City’s direction 
shal. superintend and direct the traffic on the landing field, 
and operate the lighting equipment. The Boeing Company 
shal’ under the City’s direction perform all of the actual 
work of maintaining the municipal field, including the 


LEE LEE OIE TT ENS PLEO LE CLI IE OY IO RTS? 


grading, dragging, conditioning and leveling of the land- 
ing field, and the maintenance and repair of the lighting 
equipment. The City shall pay to the Boeing Company 
for the services thus rendered to the City the actual cost 
thereof to the Boeing Company, excluding all charges for 
superintendence, directing the municipal field and traffic 
thereon, accounting, office expense and time of officers and 
excluding all charges for operating the lighting equipment 
and directing the maintenance and upkeep of the munici- 
pal field and/or the lighting equipment. Electric current, 
labor, materials and supplies shall be charged to the City 
at the actual price paid therefor by the Boeing Company. 
The Boeing Company, however, shall at its own expense 
equip and light its own and leased buildings and its taxi- 
ways. The Boeing Company shall receive in full for all 
services performed by it in superintending the municipal 
field and landing field and in directing traffic thereon and 
in providing supervising officers and caretakers and in full 
for all office expense and time of officers and accounting, 
and in full for operating the lighting equipment, and in 
full for directing the maintenance and upkeep of the mu- 
nicipal field, the sum of Twenty-four Hundred Dollars 
($2,400.00) per year, payable annually on July Ist of each 
year, the first payment to be due on July Ist, 1930. 


‘*16. Beginning on July Ist, 1930, and beginning annually 
on the same day of each following year during the con- 
tinuance hereof the parties shall audit and balance their 
accounts and payments shall be made in accordance with 
such balances. During said audit each of the parties and/or 
their representatives shall have full access to the books and 
accounts of the other party relating fo the matters covered 
by the audit. 


‘17. The City agrees that it will not during the continu- 
ance hereof permit any person other than the said Boeing 
Company any use of any portion of said municipal field 
on terms more favorable than the terms herein stipulated 
for said Boeing Company. 


‘18. The City agrees at the request of the Boeing Com- 
[fol. 88] pany to detail such policemen in uniform for duty 
on the field as may be necessary to assist in enforcing the 
City regulations governing the use of the field. 


¥ 
By 
= 
H 
e 
E 


San aE Cg 


oy ae | 


> “aa 


Wie 


88 


‘19. Neither said City nor said Boeing Company shall 
be liable for any loss, damage or injury occurring in or on 
said municipal field, except such as shall be caused by its 
own officers, agents and/or employees. And the said City 
shall hold the said Boeing Company harmless of and from 
any and all loss and damage through any and all injuries 
to person or property eaused by the officers, agents and/or 
employees of said City, and the said Boeing Company shall 
hold the said City harmless of and from any and all loss 
and damage through any and all injuries to persons or 
property caused by the officers, agents, and/or employees 
of said Boeing Company. 


**20. The City agrees that it will impose no charge of 
any kind or character upon materials and/or products 
purchased or otherwise acquired by the Boeing Company 
for use on the premises herein leased, nor shall a charge 
be imposed by said City upon materials and/or products 
prior to their acquisition by the Boeing Company. 


‘21. It is agreed that the companies affiliated with the 
Boeing Company may use the premises herein leased under 
the terms and conditions herein provided and that no rents 
or charges need be paid by said affiliated companies for 
said use. 


‘*22. The Boeing Company agrees that it will, so long as 
the same shall in its opinion be practicable, make Cheyenne 
the operating center of its Chicago-San Francisco line, es- 
tablish at Cheyenne its general shops for the repair and 
overhauling of planes used by it on said line and centralize 
at Cheyenne the repairs, overhauling and rebuilding of 
the airplanes used on said Chicago-San Francisco line 
and/or the motors of said planes. The Boeing Company 
further agrees that it will, so long as the same shall in its 
opinion be practicable, establish at Cheyenne the operating 
headquarters, the traffic headquarters and the supply depot 
for such line and make Cheyenne the principal maintenance 
point of said line. 


‘*23. That that certain contract dated July 1, 1927, be- 
tween the parties hereto and relating to the use and occu- 
pation of the Cheyenne municipal airplane field, by the 
[fol. 89] Boeing Company which leased the hangars located 
thereon to said Boeing Company, be and the same is hereby 


ESAS LDL LENO LET LES LE LIE LLG LL SEE LENE OEE REE LENO FLEET 


89 


terminated and ended and that the rights of the said par- 
ties prior to the date hereof shall be determined by the 
provisions of said contract of July 1, 1927, and that the 


rights of the parties shall be hereafter defined by the terms 
of this instrument. 


‘694. That the term of this agreement shall extend for the 


period of twenty-five (25) years from and after the date 
hereof. 


‘695. The Boeing Company shall not assign this instru- 
ment or any part or portion thereof, nor shall it sublease or 
sublet any portion or part of the premises herein leased to 


it without the written consent of the City first had and ob- 
tained.”’ 


The Witness continuing: 


I have general supervision over the operations of the 
plaintiff from Chicago to San Francisco. I have general 
supervision over the maintenance of the field at Cheyenne, 
as well as all the other fields on our line. 

Plaintiff is engaged in the business of carrying mail, ex- 
press and passengers for hire between Chicago and San 
Francisco and intends to continue in that business. This 
business is carried on by the use of airplanes travelling 
through the air. The fuel used in propelling these air- 
planes is gasoline. We know of no other fuel that could 
be used. A mail compartment is provided in each plane 


3. 
3 
x 
“ 
F 
F 
Ea 
é 
& 
t 
k 
&, 
t 


* 

in which all of the mail is carried. The mail to Rock Springs E 
is carried in the same compartment with the other mail. = 
The gasoline used in carrying the interstate mail could t 
not be separated from that used in carrying the intra- & 
state mail. Each plane carries about 2,000 times as much = 
interstate mail as it carries mail from Cheyenne to Rock E 
Springs. In that statement I include all of the mail car- 4 
ried from Cheyenne to Rock Springs, both interstate and ° 
intrastate mail. I do that because I do not have knowl- e 
edge of the amount of that Rock Springs mail that is inter- : 
state. ® 
We operate on regular schedules over regular routes : 
and could not get business otherwise, especially with the = 
mail contracts. : 
Stem rence EPIL ISTE LL EE NLS FR DEL Ee | 


90 
I personally made, under protest, payments to Mr. Edel- 
E {[fol.90] man while he continued as State Treasurer, on 
2 behalf of the plaintiff, on gasoline used in interstate com- 
: merce, as follows: 
: On that put into the tanks at Cheyenne: 
: eS ae are 455 96 
g May 10, 1930 ...... | = 651 68 
4 August 13, 1930 698 40 
4 September 11, 1930 | 724 48 
5 October 13, 1930 : 668 92 
g November 15, 1930 .. 689 88 
y December 13, 1930 | 661 80 
: On that put into the tanks at Rock Springs: 
: April 12, 1930 | , 240 28 
4 May 10, 19380 ._.. 256.32 
g August 13, 1930. 322 32 
a September 11, 1930 | 363 04 
: October 13, 1930 399 60 
: November 15, 1930 .. 418 72 
3 December 13, 1930 386 20 


I personaliy made payments to Mr. Edelman while he 
continued as State Treasurer, on behalf of the plaintiff, of 
four cents per gallon on gasoline used otherwise than in 
interstate commerce, as follows: 


On gasoline sold and or used at Chevenne: 


April 12, 1930 . KISO Sv 
May 10, 1930 150 08 
August 13, 1930 98 &8 
Sept. 11, 1930 - 204 00 
< Oct. 13, 1930 B81 &8 
Nov. 15, 1930 ; 310 88 


On gasoline sold and or used at Rock Springs: 


May 10, 1930 O95 4 
August 13, 1930 41 16 
Sept. 11, 1930 i 73. 56 


Oct. 13, 1930 70 84 
Nov. 15, 1930 ..... ot. | one 28 44 


‘yi 


91 


When we paid the taxes on the gasoline used in interstate 
commerce, we made the payments to avoid the severe pen- 
[fol.91] alty imposed by the statute of Wyoming if they 
were not made, and we filed a protest with every such pay- 
ment. For example, with the payment made October, 1930, 
we filed a paper in the following words: 


Exuisit D 
Boeing Air Transport, Ine. 
Remittance Advice 


Paid to Treasurer of the State of Wyoming. Date 10/9/30 


Description Item Deduction Amount 


Alleged Gasoline Tax OF ite $355.60 


Monthly Statement of the Number of Gallons of Gasoline 
Used Exclusively in Interstate Commerce 


By Boeing Air Transport, Inc. (From the Rock Springs 
Air Field, within and outside the State of Wyoming during 
the calendar month ending September 30, 1930, rendered to 
the Treasurer of the State of Wyoming pursuant to the 
provisions of Chapter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923. 


Shipped to 
Tank consignee and Gallons Amount 
Date car No. Shipped from destination sold of tax 


The Boeing Air Transport, Inc., during the calendar 
month of September, 1930, used exclusively in interstate 
commerce in planes flying from the Rock Springs Air Field 
a total of 8,890 gallons of gasoline on which no gasoline tax 
had previously been paid to the State of Wyoming. A tax 
of four cents a gallon on such gasoline would amount to 
355.60. 

Each and every portion of said gasoline was used solely 
in propelling the airplanes of the Boeing Air Transport, 
Inc., in interstate commerce. A portion of such gasoline 
was used inside the State of Wyoming and a portion outside 
the State of Wyoming. 


92 


State oF WyomING, 
County of Laramie, ss: 


I, D. B. Colyer, being first duly sworn, depose and say 
upon oath that I am Vice-President in charge of operations 
[fol. 92] of the Boeing Air Transport, Inc., a user of gaso- 
line in the State of Wyoming; that the foregoing statement 
is a full, true and correct statement of the number of gal- 
lons of gasoline used in interstate commerce during the 
calendar month ending September 30, 1930, by said Com- 
pany from the Rock Springs Air Field. 

(S¢d.) D. B. Colyer. 


Subscribed and sworn to before me this 9th day of 
October, 1930. My commission expires Aug. 28, 
1933. (Sgd.) Fred “larcleroad, Notary Public. 
(Seal.) 


The Boeing Air Transport, Inc., is herewith handing to 
you Three Hundred and Fifty-five Dollars and Sixty Cents 
($355.60) claimed by you as taxes on 8,890 gallons of gaso- 
line which was used by said company in flying its interstate 
planes during the month of September, 1930. 

All of the said gasoline was placed by said Company in 
planes engaged in interstate commerce while the planes 
were at the Rock Springs Air Field within the State of 
Wyoming and was used by said planes solely in interstate 
commerce. 

The said Company protests this payment and insists that 
the said taxes are not, nor are any of them due from or 
payable by it, for that all of the said gasoline was used in 
interstate commerce and none of it used for any intrastate 
purpose or otherwise than as above stated. The said Com- 
pany protests that it makes the said payment solely to 
avoid the heavy civil penalties and the heavy criminal 
penalties denounced against it and its officers and servants 
in case of failure to make such payment and only under the 
duress of such heavy liabilities and such penalties. It fur- 
ther gives notice of its intention to bring its action for re- 
covering back each and every amount so paid upon the 
ground that the said tax and every part thereof is an illegal 
exaction from said Company in violation of Article 1, See- 
tion 8 of the Constitution of the United States, being a 
direct burden on interstate commerce, and upon the further 


# 


aii 


RENEW ERI TPIT 


93 


ground that a portion of said gasoline was actually con- 
sumed outside of the State of Wyoming. 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, October 1, 1930. 


Boeing Air Transport, Inc., by (Sgd.) D. B. Colyer. 


[fol. 93] Receipt is acknowledged of a copy of the fore- 
going protest and of the amount of money specified therein 
as paid under protest, and also a copy of the monthly state- 
ment or return accompanying said protest, said statement 
showing the amount of gasoline alleged by the Boeing Air 
Transport, Inc., to have been used by it in interstate com- 
merce from the Rock Springs Air Feld, this 18 day of Oc- 
tober, A. D. 1930. 


(Sed.) W. Hf. Edelman, State Treasurer. E 

(And the defendants, and each of them, by their counsel é 
now in open court admit that protests in similar form were ~ 
made with each payment by or on behalf of plaintiff of = © 
taxes on gasoline claimed to be used in interstate com- ¥ 
merce. ) , 
& 


Witness continuing: 


Coe NEgY 


The gasoline not used in interstate commerce was used 
in the operation of our motor trucks and on our test stand 
for running in of engines, on local flights of the airplanes, : 
and for test flights, and for washing down engine parts and e 


oetaeeneNen (fs SOR 


i 

planes, and so on. " 
The other payments that we made without protest cover 
all of the gasoline used otherwise than in airplanes in inter- : 
state commerce. & 
The plaintiff has property at Cheyenne and has paid all % 
of the taxes on that property each time the taxes were due. fe 
The same things are true at Rock Springs. We owe noth- : 
ing for taxes on property in Wyoming. \ 


The air field at Rock Springs is not within the limits of 
the City. It is some three miles from the City limits. The 8 
tax rate there averaged 1.22% on the assessed valuation e 
during this period. : 


Larwceoytey 


I paid to Mr. Weston after he became Treasurer, under 
similar protests and to avoid the penalties as I have indi- 
eated, the following amounts as the four cents per gallon 
taxes on the gasoline used in interstate commerce: 


SER SO ELE 


2S TENE SOO MSR POLY ELSIE IG ERMC IMTS HA STAR NIE FI NAR RHEE INI DM 


L 


ERNE ALLA BORO ANS SS Eo ema Re? IE 


On That Used from the Cheyenne Air Field 


January 9, 1931............. RAMs 5 _. $762.68 
March 9, 1931. ret ae eae a ey 707.28 
May 12, 1931..... MEER AL teem Shi 8 1,002.44 
[fol.94] On that used from the Rock Springs Air Field: 
January 9, 1931...... 1 pata A Saari tote ee ss... $488.48 
March 9, 1931....... ieee Pee ee _ 507.20 
moey We, Ween... es... i es 


The gasoline used in this interstate commerce was of an 
average value from February 1, 1930, to June 1, 1931, of 
less than 13 cents per gallon. The four cents per gallon 
paid by plaintiff was between 30 and 3314 per cent of the 
value of all the gasoline used. We did not own all of that 
gasoline on April Ist but purchased it during the entire 
period; probably had on hand on April 1st between 5,000 
and 10,000 gallons. We paid the four cents per gallon on 
375,000 gallons of gasoline used in the interstate com- 
merece. We purchased the gasoline. 

The plaintiff pays the administration charges and the 
maintenance charges on the field at Rock Springs. We 
stand al] of the expenses other than any that the City as- 
sumes itself. The City assumes none that I know of. In 
addition to paying the administration and maintenance 
charges at Rock Springs, we pay the City $600.00 a vear 
for the use of the air field and other equipment on the field. 
That is over and above maintaining and administering the 
field and paying all charges. 

The plaintiff does the actual work of administering and 
maintaining the field at Cheyenne. 

In addition to carrying mail and express for hire, plain- 
tiff carries passengers for hire. Plaintiff is a common 
earrier. From February 1, 1930, to June 1, 1931, we have 
earried a total of more than 2,000 passengers through the 
State of Wyoming. During that period there have been 
eighteen passengers between the towns of Rock Springs 
and Cheyenne, some travelling in one direction and some 
in the other. For every passenger within the State of 
Wyoming we have had 131 passengers who passed through 
the State of Wyoming. There is no possibility of appor- 
tioning the gasoline used in these airplanes as between 


is 
P 
- 
tase 


tr, nguite'e 2 aie . A Hs SE NTA NOOSA LLL LL 
AA ens %A 


95 


carrying passengers intrastate and those interstate. The 
additional gasoline required to carry the intrastate pas- i 
sengers is a very small amount, in fact inconsiderable, im- 
possible to determine, 

During the period covered by my testimony, the total 
(fol.95] number of pounds of mail carried into Rock 
Springs from Cheyenne has been 1,173 pounds. That in- 
cludes interstate and intrastate mail. During the same 
period we carried 2,200,000 pounds of mail through the 
State of Wyoming. It was slightly more than that. 

The amount of gasoline required for carrying the addi- 
tional weight of the mail into Rock Springs would be no 
considerable amount. It would be like a man in an auto- 
mobile if he were driving from here to Laramie, if some one 
would hand him a packet of letters and he would stick them 
in his pocket. I do not believe he would burn any move 
vasoline When he got to Laramie on account of the letters 
than if he had not had them. The airplane and the mail and 
the express and the passengers go anyway. 

During the period from February 1, 1930, to June 1, 1931, 
there was no express carried between Cheyenne and Rock 
Springs. 


Cross-examination: 


I have held my position as Vice-President of the plaintiff 
in Charge of Operations, since January, 1929. I was Vice- 
President when the contract between plaintiff and the City 
of Cheyenne was entered into and took part in the negotia- 
tions leading up to it. At the time the contract was dis- 
cussed, it was agreed that we were to pay certain rentals to 
the City of Cheyenne, approximately $3,000.00 for the field 
and a little more than $1,000.00 for the rental of hangar 
space in the vicinity of the administration building. It was 
also provided that a superintendent would be appointed in 
that field at Cheyenne. Our Company acts as a superin- 
tendent in maintenance and upkeey of the field. Mr. Hoare 
has direct charge. I have general charge. Mr. Hoare has 
other duties for the plaintiff besides the maintenance of the 
field. The City pays to the plaintiff $200.00 a month for 
that superintendence, All of our people at Cheyenne, in- 
cluding the pilots, are interested in the fields and anv one 
can suggest anything that ean be done to improve it. These 
suggestions are made to and earried out by Mr. Hoare. 


esha. 


. RMB Fea RAIN HA HR NT AT 


96 


They include lighting, and as to grades, and runways and 
all the various things that have been done up there in the 
last few years. 

This contract provides that the City shall keep the air 
field well maintained and well regulated during the time 
(fol. 96] plaintiff may oceupy any portion of it as a tenant. 
We have had continuous use of the field since the execution 
of the contract. The field has been kept in a well regulated 
and well maintained manner, and adequate accommoda- 
tions have been provided by the City to the plaintiff under 
the terms of the contract, and there is no complaint about 
the way the contract has been carried out. We charged 
the City approximately $1,000.00 during the last sixteen 
months for the maintenance work we have done on the field, 
and I have heard no complaints about that. The City has 
endeavored to provide a field that would be adequate and 
proper in every way and is striving to produce an A1lA 
field. It isa pretty good field. I know the cost of the main- 
tenance work on the field. That has been approximately 
$1,000.00 for the maintenance work done on the field and 
approximately $1,000.00 for electric current, and in addi- 
tion there has been paid to the Superintendent $2,400.00 
to manage the field. That makes $4,400.00. I believe the 
lighting was in the original contract. It was not at our 
request. There was an arrangement made with the City in 
the contract whereby each one of us would spend some 
money to do some improvements or work necessary. When 
it came to having the work done the cost ran considerably 
over and so the viaintiff went along and put in its 50% 
right along with the City. The amount we paid in unpro- 
tested taxes has exceeded the direct maintenance costs of 
the field. There is a lot of expense that the City would 
incur on the field over which we have no control. Some of 
this is for the benefit and improvement of the field. There 
may be a difference of opinion as to whether or not they 
are beneficial. I do not know that the moneys paid without 
protest are taken over to and received by the City and 
expended on the field. 


(‘ross-examination. 
By Mr. Taliaferro on behalf of Rock Springs: 


The contract with Rock Springs provides that the plain- 
tiff shall sell the gas and oils at the air field sold at the air 


: Sere Pos EO Pe 
FEES os 


97 


field, and the plaintiff has exercised that privilege. The 
figures which I have given for a tax of four cents per gal- 
lon on gasoline inelude only the gasoline used in our own 
planes and operations and we collected and have paid the 
four cents from these other people who used the airport, 
paid that into the State and it eventually got to the City. 

We do not have separate receptacles in which we store 
[fol. 97] the gasoline sold to other airships. We have it 
stored at the air field. The tax is not paid until the gaso- 
line is used. It is stored there and is property stored in 
Sweetwater County on that field. Some of it is used by 
our airships drawn from those tanks as stored on the field 
and some of the gas is used by other airships. 


Questions by the Court: 


The gasoline is all stored in one storage tank. When we 
fill a ship engaged in interstate commerce, we have very 
accurate gauges on the pumps, and a very careful record is 
made of the gasoline as drawn out of the tanks. The tax 
is not paid until the gasoline is used. We do not pay on 
what we buy until it is used or disposed of. 


Cross-examination. 


By Mr. Greenwood: 


We procure the gasoline from both inside and outside of 
the State of Wyoming. After we purchase it, part of it is 
brought to Cheyenne and part to Rock Spring. It is stored 
in our tanks at Rock Springs or Cheyenne waiting for use 
at our direction and subject to any use we wish to make of 
it. It is under our control and is property on the field. It 
is not determined at the time it is stored whether it goes 
into interstate commerce or into a ship engaged in that. 
We determine the amount used in interstate and the amount 
applied to other purposes at the time it is used. This 
measurement of the gasoline for the purpose of paying the 
tax is not directed to us by the State. We measure it in 
determining the use it is finally put to, and on that basis 
determine whether we will protest the tax. It is the same 
kind of property, handled in the same way and stored in the 
same place until the final application or use occurs. 


pid 


ne re te ek ee Baa 


98 


Questions by the Court: 


As I understand the State law, the four cent tax goes to 
the town where the gasoline is used. All money collected at 
the Cheyenne airport goes through the State Treasurer’s 
office and then through the City of Cheyenne back to the 
airport. That is my understanding. When we made two 
payments at the same time to the State Treasurer, for ex- 
ample, one of $651.68 and the other of $256.32, one of these 
was for Cheyenne and one for Rock Springs. The reason 
we made the division was because it was two separate ac- 
[fol. 98] counts. We keep a record of the gasoline at Rock 
Springs separately, and Cheyenne the same way, and it is 
a matter of convenience in making our reports to make two 
separate reports. 


Redirect examination: 


The gasoline for which we have accounted as taken at 
Cheyenne is made up of two separate quantities each 
month, one quantity is gasoline put into the tanks in air- 
planes engaged in interstate flying at Cheyenne, and the 
other is gasoline used here at Cheyenne in our automobiles 
and for washing and for running our engines and experi- 
ments and for making experimental flights about the field, 
and things of that kind. 

In like manner the gasoline I have testified about as be- 
ing at Rock Springs is gasoline actually put into the air- 
planes at Rock Springs, that is the one class, and the other 
class is gasoline actually used at Rock Springs. None of 
the gasoline put into any airplane at Cheyenne has been 
credited to Rock Springs, and none put into any tank at 
Rock Springs has been credited to Cheyenne, in this testi- 
mony. 


Cross-examination. 


By Mr. Greenwood: 


The statute in question imposes a burden on us in our 
interstate commerce. The mail contract fixes our compen- 
sation for carrying mail, and plaintiff has certain rates for 
passengers and for express. 

We display at our airport at Cheyenne and also at Rock 
Springs a price sign stating the price of gasoline to be re- 


pos 


tet 


a ——s 


aaa aus 
99 


tailed there, and that includes the gas tax, notwithstanding 
the fact that we have not paid that tax on all the gasoline 
we have there for use. 


Redirect : 


As to other expenditures by the City of Cheyenne out- 
side the maintenance charges of about $1,000.00 a year and 
outside of the lighting charges about the same figure, and 
outside of the superintendent’s charge of $2,400.00, the con- 
tract with the City provides that between the plaintiff and 
the City by spending equal amounts certain improvements 
to the field would be made, at that time estimated to cost 
approximately $7,000.00. That included certain grading 
work upon the field and a new lighting system, that is in the 
boundary lighting and flood lighting, and so on, because 
the old lighting system was practically useless, and the final 
[fol. 99] cost of these improvements was in excess of 
$14,000.00, of which our Company paid $7,000.00 plus to 
make up an exact half of that total cost. That relates to 
Section 2 of the contract, which provides that the cost shall 
be divided fifty fifty. Outside of this gas tax which we 
paid for gas not used in interstate commerce, we paid over 
$7,000.00, fifty per cent of the cost of these matters I have 
mentioned, No other claim was ever made upon plaintiff 
in reference to that. 

As to other expenditures the City put a crushed rock 
circle out in the middle of the field, which would be of abso- 
lutely no benefit to our Company, and we did not pay that. 
There was no agreement in regard to that crushed rock 
circle. I do not believe the City even asked the plaintiff 
to pay half of the cost of that. It would not cost over 
$100.00 at the outside. Those are all of the expenditures 
outside of the maintenance $1,000.00, lighting $1,000.00 and 
superintendence $2,400.00, excepting another addition I did 
not mention that our Company has provided. That is the 
lighted wind tee, that cost us approximately $500.00, but 
the City did not have anything to do with that. 

In addition to the amounts paid by the plaintiff as I have 
stated, we have two buildings of our own out there, which 
have been constructed since the contract was drawn, and in 
addition we have made certain improvements to our leased 
buildings on the air field that belong to the City. Our own 


i 
; 
2 
4 
By 
: 
; 
# 
£ } 
; 


100 


buildings cost in excess of $85,000.00. They are taxed. The 
rate of tax on our property at that air field is less than four 
per cent, just slightly under four per cent. 

The maximum capacity of one of our tanks at the air field 
at Cheyenne is 5,000 gallons and of the other tank 2,000 gal- 
lons. That is the most we can have there at any one time, 
7,000 gallons. And we paid four cents per gallon to the 
two Treasurers on 375,000 gallons. Our method of making 
the payments is as directed by the State. For illustration, 
during the month of June we paid the taxes on gasoline 
used during May, and these were to be paid before the 15th 
of the month subsequent to that in which the gasoline was 
used, None of the tax is paid in advance of the use. It is 
all paid on the 15th of the month after it is used, and plain- 
tiff has paid all of the four cents per gallon not only on that 
used locally at the two places but also on all that used in 
[fol. 100] interstate commerce. The difference between 
our right to conduct this interstate commerce business with- 
out having this tax assessed and the right with the tax 
assessed is at least $50,000.00. We paid to the City of 
Cheyenne under our contract approximately $4,000.00 out- 
side of this tax, and that is outside of maintenance and of 
lighting, and we have paid that. From February 1, 1930, 
to June 1, 1931, we paid over $2,900.00 on the four cents per 
gallon tax on gasoline used locally at Cheyenne. Those are 
the local taxes, the unprotested taxes. That is in addition 
to the $4,000.00 that we paid under the contract for our 
rights there. 

Our use there is not exclusive. There are a number of 
other companies using it regularly, and I believe it is classed 
as a free airport so it can be used by any one who has an 
airplane and eares to use it. That, of course, is controlled 
by the City. There is one local concern located at the field, 
and at the present time there are three regularly operated 
airplanes that use it in addition to ourselves, besides the 
one local concern that does not run any regular schedule. 
All three of these airlines mentioned are interstate oper- 
ators, and IT think they use gasoline locally and in inter- 
state commerce. We do not sell them gasoline, and the com- 
pany that operates here locally sells most of the gasoline 
that is sold on the air field out there. We do not sell much, 
and that local concern operates locally here. 


SA Oe a aad 


101 


JosepH A. Fiynn, a witness called by the plaintiff, 
testified : 


I reside in Cheyenne; am a railway mail clerk, engaged 
at the air mail field Cheyenne, Wyoming. We distribute all 
of the air mail labeled for that field. About one pound of 
mail per ship, including the weight of the equipment, goes 
to Rock Springs by these airplanes of the plaintiff. The 
equipment weighs from twelve to thirteen ounces. I have 
no record of the pounds count of the mail, but believe that 
it would possibly be 40 air mail letters to the pound. Prac- 
tically all of that air mail carried by the plaintiff between 
Cheyenne and Rock Springs is interstate, coming by the 
plaintiff’s airplanes from the outside, from the Omaha and 
Chicago sealed pouches. 


—___-——_ 


[fol. 101] Frank G. Catpweiy, a witness called by the 
plaintiff, testified : 


Since July 1, 1927, I have been and still am general super- 
intendent of the Boeing Air Transport lines. 

The plaintiff's business is to operate airplanes between 
Oakland, California, and Chicago, Illinois, for the purpose 
of transporting mail, passengers and express. The mails 
are carried under the paper Exhibit A over the entire dis- 
tance, operating through Iowa City, Des Moines, Omaha, 
North Platte, Cheyenne, Rock Springs, Salt Lake City, 
Kilko, Nevada, Reno, Nevada, Sacramento, California. 

There is an emergency air field at Laramie. The field at 
Rock Springs is a municipal airport. Our main reason for 
stopping there is for fuel. The business at Rock Springs is 
limited. If it were not for the distance involved, I do not be- 
lieve it would want to step there except for fuel. We stop 
only because of the distanee between Salt Lake and Chey- 
enne, That is an ineidental stop. 


During the period from February, 1930, to June, 1931, we 
carried approximately 1000 pounds of mail for delivery to 
points in Wyoming. That is the whole amount of the mails 
carried for Rock Springs. We also carry express and pas- 
sengers. From February 1, 1930, to June, 1931, there was 


COMME NRE EEE ANSI 


102 


no express carried to or from Rock Springs. During the 
same period there was some eighteen passengers carried 
between Cheyenne and Rock Springs, and some 2300 carried 
through Wyoming as interstate passengers. 

Gasoline is the fuel used in the propulsion of these air- 
planes. No other fuel is available. The mail to Rock 
Springs is in the same compartment with that carried 
through Rock Springs. We do not get compensation by the 
pound for carrying the mail. It would be highly impractic- 
able to fix the value of the gasoline used to carry the Rock 
Springs part of the commerce from the interstate com- 
merce. 

The payments made by me on behalf of the plaintiff on 
the four cents per gallon tax on gasoline used by plaintiff, 
were as follows: 


[fol. 102] To Mr. Edelman, on gasoline used locally at 
Cheyenne: 


March 15, 1930 $158.84 
Ee I Sn ts set eas Se ee 
EE Ns cos Seek rd ou Ce Rh > ci. oo 


To Mr. Edelman, on gasoline used locally at Rock 
Springs: 


Pe Be I sooo oe ek veces ean ae 
WE NE oer sinew asek see a ee .. 41.76 


To Mr. Weston, on gasoline used locally at Cheyenne: 
Penner DG, Games or eS ek es re eae ae $210.56 


To Mr. Weston, on gasoline used locally at Rock Springs: 


peewenry 34, E008 ..............: ee ge eh ey $24.00 


On gasoline put into our planes at Cheyenne and Rock 
. 5 . . 6 
Springs and used in interstate commerce: 


To Mr. Edelman, on that put into the tanks at Cheyenne: 


RR AE ee ner rn MY a Eo $424.08 
I i ite as ok 2 x oe ah 549.64 
eee Ge; Wee ek. Segoe Pads Cee 666.24 


6 ROAI AEE LABIA II ORNS 


a KLARA ERAS SAAR RE EERE NIT PEATE CA ens . 
io | 

To Mr. Edelman, on that put into the tanks at Rock 

A 

t 

& 


Springs: 3 
I NR 2's ccna cn aoes ete os a ee $181.00 — 
Fo ie ae are pare ke aire gt s 275.00 © 
8 | Rees eerie eer re Peer 314.04 © 
To Mr. Weston, on that put into the tanks at Cheyenne: 
I A OE nc cw wan epi spe $820.12 
ME I MIE a oh Ss vie i pon ss ew aa 806.16 
To Mr. Weston, on that put into the tanks at Rock 
Springs: 
February 14, 1931 ............. Were $492.00 
PB Ee ree ee 490.84 


The interstate gasoline placed in the tanks at Cheyenne 
was used between Cheyenne and east to Omaha and North 
Platte, and west to Rock Springs and Salt Lake City, and 
that placed in the tanks at Rock Springs was used to Salt 
Lake City and points west, and to Cheyenne and points east. 

The gasoline other than interstate, otherwise called ‘‘lo- 
eal’? was used in trucks, automobiles and washing planes, 
or airplanes, ete. We do a considerable amount of testing. 
An engine is going for that practically all of the time, and, 
[fol. 103] as required by the Department of Commerce, we 
test each airplane where passengers are to be carried after 
each engine installation. That testing is done at the local 
field. 

Kach payment of the four cents tax on interstate gaso- 
line was made under protest. 


(Counsel for defendants agreed that the protest was in 
the form of that introduced in evidence.) 


The tax paid on gasoline used locally was not paid under 
protest. The reason for the payment of the tax of four 
cents per gallon on gasoline used in interstate commerce 
was because of the civil and criminal penalties involved if 
we should refuse to pay. Plaintiff has not had at any time 
at Cheyenne to exceed 7,000 gallons of gasoline in its sup- 
ply tanks. We have paid about $15,000.00 as the four cent 
tax on the gasoline used by the plaintiff in interstate com- 


104 


merce. That would be several hundred per cent of the 
value of the gasoline which we had on hand at any one 
time. It would be between 30 and 3314 per cent of the 
value of all the gasoline that we used during the entire year. 

The plaintiff pays the administration and the mainte- 
nance charges at Rock Springs, and over and above that 
expense pays to Rock Springs $600.00 per year for the 
use of the air field. The maintenance cost for the air field 
at Cheyenne is about $1,000.00 per year. That includes the 
upkeep of the lighting equipment, as well as the upkeep 
of the actual landing field. Upkeep is keeping the field 
true, free from ruts. The chief cause of these ruts is the 
weather, storm and wind. I would estimate that the 
weather or elements cause 75% of the damage that is done 
to the field, and then the landing of various planes causes 
the other 25%. 

The use of the air field at Cheyenne by the plaintiff is 
not exclusive. Others use gasoline there locally. I would 
estimate that there is more gasoline used locally by these 
others than there is by the plaintiff. 

The difference between the value of the right to use this 
gasoline in interstate commerce without paying the tax and 
the value with paying the tax is not less than $50,000.00. 
This $15,000.00 that we have paid on the interstate gaso- 
line includes the time from February 1, 1930, to May 31, 
1931. 


{fol. 104] Cross-examination. 


By Mr. Greenwood: 


No tax has been paid to any other State on the gasoline 
that plaintiff uses in interstate commerce from Cheyenne. 

The gasoline that we sell at Rock Springs is taken from 
our general storage tanks, and that is true also at Chey- 
enne. In speaking of the $50,000.00, the value of our right 
to carry on the interstate commerce without the tax as 
against the right to carry it on with the tax, that figure was 
based on what we have already been required to pay and on 
continuing the payment. Our rates for transporting every 
bit of the commodities, mail, express and passengers, are 
computed upon the basis of yielding a profit, whether we 
paid the tax or not, but the profit will be greater if we do 
not pay the tax. 


ey ens Cee 


105 


Questions by the Court: 


We segregate this gasoline for the purpose of making 
the computations as interstate or intrastate through the 
use of a metering device. A record is kept of the gasoline 
used in interstate as well as that used locally or intrastate. 
If we are putting the gasoline into a plane that is about to 
start for Oakland, we keep track of what gasoline we put 
in there. And if it is some plane stationed here and we 
are putting it under test, we keep a record of the actual 
amount of gasoline used on the test. 


Mr. Witu1aM B. Hoare, a witness called on behalf of the 
plaintiff, testified : 


Since July 1, 1927, I have been Superintendent of Repairs 
of the plaintiff. I supervise the repairs of airplanes, lay 
out work for the employees, and sub-supervise the repairs 
of engines, planes and the fields. My part of the work in- 
cludes seeing that the fields are always kept in order and 
well graded and all holes filled up, lighting kept in order, 
and the fences and lights in good condition. 

A man is appointed for three shifts a day to watch it, 
night and day. I am in charge of it. The chief changing 
of the surface of the air field is caused by wind, rain, snow 
and animal life. The landing and taking off of airplanes 
does not affect the surface a great deal except when the 
field is bad or wet. Taking it as a whole, 70 to 75% of the 
[fol. 105] damage to the field is caused by wind and 
weather; perhaps 65 to 70%. Some of the balance by ani- 
mal life. About 20% of the damage is caused by landing 
and taking off of planes. 

Plaintiff’s use of the field is not exclusive. There are 
three other airline operators besides the plaintiff, one local 
concern, and several privately-owned, in addition to what- 
ever transients might go through. I should say plaintiff 
uses three times as much gasoline in intrastate operation 
as all of the other local operators. 


Mr. Coryer, recalled on behalf of the plaintiff: 


We paid the tax on this interstate gasoline in order to 
avoid the extreme penalties, both civil and criminal, should 


r 
& 


106 


we refuse to pay. We paid the property tax on all the gaso- 
line on hand April 1st at Cheyenne and at Rock Springs. 


Cuartes B. Morean, a witness called on behalf of the 
defendants, testified: 


I am Deputy State Treasurer of Wyoming and reside at 
Cheyenne. I received the gasoline taxes on gas used or 
sold in Wyoming and have received certain payments from 
the plaintiff, and a part of those payments have been made 
under protest and a part have not. The Treasurer is col- 
lecting four cents a gallon tax on all the gasoline that is 
sold in the State. 


And on cross-examination, the witness testified: 


That tax is not collected as a property tax at all. It is 
not a tax levied on property. 


F. M. Howarp, a witness called on behalf of the defend- 
ants, testified : 


Iam City Clerk and Assistant City Treasurer of the City 
of Cheyenne. Have been such since April, 1924. I have 
entire charge of cash receipts and disbursements and of 
making a proper record if it as Assistant City Treasurer 
and City Clerk. I keep separate accounts for different 
activities of the City and different items that are paid. 
The City has in the books which I keep an account with 
reference to the airport. It shows the receipts and dis- 
[fol. 106] bursements of all cash applicable to the airport 
accounts. This account was established in 1930. Prior to 
that time disbursements were made from an airport budget 
account under the Department. The budget appropriation 
for the vear 1929 was $8,000.00. The expenditures were 
$9,508.12. I do not have the total figures for the vear on 
maintenance. I do not have an item on maintenance. That 
was the year in which the City entered into a contract with 
the plaintiff. I do not have the items that comprise that 
$9,508.12. I do not remember when the superintendency 
disbursements and the rentals did start under that con- 
tract. 


bat oe Ree Shee 


Jr “7 


107 


There is a record in my books of expenditures for pur- 
poses of grading and other work to be done to come to the 
amount of $7,000.00, mentioned in paragraph 2 of the con- 
tract. I cannot tell you now how much was spent. The 
City’s half of leveling and grading the field during the year 
1929 amounted to $2,232.44. The City’s proportion of the 
leveling and grading expenditure during the year 1930 
amounted to $1,780.28. That must be all that was paid out 
by the City for its half of that work. 

My records kept track of the amount that was due from 
plaintiff on these payments for this new area, and a like 
amount was charged to them as was paid by the City of 
Cheyenne. 

On October 2, 1930, the City Treasurer received from the 
State Treasurer $2,845.60 as proceeds of the gasoline tax 
levied on gasoline sold out there at the airport. On Feb- 
ruary 18, 1931, the City Treasurer received $2,099.08, pro- 
ceeds of gasoline tax levied on gasoline sold at the air- 
port. That money was placed in the airport fund. The 
money that is in that fund is used for maintenance and im- 
provement expenses of the airport and for no other pur- 
pose. As against that fund I charge all items that have 
to do with the maintenance and improvement of the air- 
port at Cheyenne. So far this year up to the close of May, 
1931, the airport budget expenditures total $1,488.35. That 
is for the first five months of this year exclusive of the 
plaintiff’s bills for April and May. Settlements between 
the plaintiff and the City are made quarterly. The second 
quarter will not be settled until June. 

I have received no other money from the State Treasurer 
{fol. 107] other than the items mentioned, and that has been 
expended on the field. 

The City has authorized a bond issue of $15,000.00 for 
further improvement, consisting of additional land and 
grading and leveling, and fencing, ete. 


On cross-examination the witness testified: 


These expenditures have been for improvements as well 
as for maintenance. The amount received October 2, 1930, 
from the State Treasurer was $2,845.60. My records show 
the amount October 2, 1930, $2,845.60, and February 18, 
1931, the amount received was $2,099.08. These two 
amounted to $4,944.68. 


Nba dantaieacs cab 8: 8 


ot are) 


eT a A CLALIT PS Ao Be ER 


108 


I have no statement from the State Treasurer as to the 
class of gasoline this tax was on. 


Cat Houuiway, a witness on behalf of the defendants, 
testified : 


I am Mayor of Cheyenne, have been in that office for 
eighteen months. Have had some experience in operation 
of airplanes. Am not a licensed pilot. Am a flyer. I am 
connected with an airplane company in this City, the Chey- 
enne Air Service. Its principal place of business is at the 
Cheyenne airport. I have known the conditions at that 
field for about three years and a half. Have seen plain- 
tiff’s airplanes. There are other companies that operate 
there. 

I am familiar with the general use that is made of the 
field by plaintiff’s airships as compared with the others. 
I would say the plaintiff uses the field the most. 

I would say that the testimony of 70 per cent of the deter- 
ioration of the field requiring maintenance is due to the 
elements, rain, snow and wind, is a little bit strong. The 
wear and tear on the airport is caused from moist condi- 
tions and the landing of planes on that soft ground. The 
field is utilized all of the time, in wet weather as well as dry. 

There is a difference in the damage done by a heavy 
plane and a light one. The plaintiff’s airplanes are 40 B’s 
and 95’s and trimotors. The trimotors are single motors. 
The trimotors are the heaviest of the planes that land out 
there. The effect of the landing of one of these planes 
{fol. 108] when the surface is moist is about the same as if 
the wheel of a heavy truck had crossed there. That causes 
damage to the field. The lighter planes do not cause as 
~ much damage as the heavy ones. No Company using the 

_ field uses airplanes as heavy as those just mentioned. 

& If an air field does not have runways enough it must be 
q smooth enough to have an all-runway field in order to 
* become an A1A field. We will have ours smooth enough so 
~ that you can take off in any direction. That is partly the 
‘a purpose of the new acquisition of land for which the bond 
issue has been voted. The rest of the bond issue was for 
the grading and smoothing up of the field in general. 


£ 
é 
z 
: 
be 
4 
* 
s 


RED LM AEN IP OE 


; — — . 
HRBAR ore 
ns 


T have conferred with the officials of the plaintiff with — 
reference to the conditions of the field. In an off-hand way — 
they have made requests for improvements. If the City — 
says nothing, the plaintiff is allowed to maintain the field 
the way they think it should be. We could protest against 
the expenditure of that money and they would stop. There 
has never been any protest about any expenditures. 


(). And the City pays for all of this maintenance, and 
these improvements, that have been placed upon this field? 
A. They do, now. 


There is a gasoline tax received from the State from the 
use of gasoline used on this field and in the planes of the 
plaintiff. It has received from other companies as well. 
My company pays a tax. And these funds that go to the 
State and then come to the City are included in the airport 
fund. And expenditures made on that field are debited 
and credited to the airport fund. This tax money has come 
into the airport fund of the City and been expended on the 
field and nowhere else. The amount received last vear was 
equal to the amount expended by the City on the field, but 
not this year. In saying that I have in mind the expendi- 
tures of some $7,000.00 in the past for improvements out 
there. IT do not know exactly how much the City has 
received from gasoline tax, 


And on cross-examination the witness testified: 


The gasoline tax received by the City was that part not 
protested by the plaintiff. 

The tax here in controversy, being that on gasoline used 
[fol. 109] in interstate commerce, has not reached the City 
Treasurer, that I know of. 

That $7,000.00 which the City spent in some grading was 
only 50% of the amount that grading cost, and the plain- 
tiff paid the rest, and they both agreed to do just that 
thine as far as I know. 

The time during the course of the year when that field is 
soft from the elements, rain and snow, would probably be 
thirty days ina year. Maybe that is too high, and the rest 
of the time it is not soft at all, and the rest of the time an 
airplane landing there and taking off would make very 
little impression on that surface. T would not say that the 
wind does more damage than the rain to the field. The 


110 


blowing of the wind eddies out holes and makes it rough, 
but not too rough. It makes it rough so that it is not as 
comfortable, and that is one of the things that has to be 
repaired, with loaded ships. For the itinerant flyer it is 
not so bad. The air field is used for the purpose of all 
planes landing and taking off there—Government planes, 
some of them—and some of them are heavier than the plain- 
tiff’s and require the same sort of a smooth air field. 

This maintenance of the field is done in accordance with 
that contract between the City and the plaintiff in carrying 
out that contract, and they have done that. 


O. K. 10-13-31. Richard J. Jackson, Deputy Attorney 
General of Wyoming, one of the attys. for defendant State 
Treasurer. 


O. K. H. B. Henderson, Jr., Atty. for Deft. City of Chey- 
enne, a municipal corpn. 


In Unirep States District Court 


CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL OF STATEMENT OF EVIDENCE 


Be it remembered that the foregoing cause was instituted 
in this court by a Bill in Equity filed by the plaintiff, Boe- 
ing Air Transport, Inc., that the defendants filed Answers 
to said Bill of Complaint, that the cause has been heard 
upon the issues arising on said Bill of Complaint and said 
Answers and the evidence in support thereof. The fore- 
going Statement of Evidence was duly lodged in the office 
of the clerk of this court by the solicitors for the plaintiff 
and notice of such lodgment duly given the solicitors for 
[fol. 110] the defendants as provided by Federal Equity 
Rule No. 75 (b), and the court having considered the same 
now finds the Statement of the evidence as above set forth 
to be true, correct, complete and properly prepared. 
Wherefore the same is hereby approved this 14th day of 
October, A. D. 1931. 


By the Court: 


T. Blake Kennedy, United States District Court 
Judge, District of Wyoming. 


laa 


111 
To the Honorable T. Blake Kennedy, judge of said court: 


The defendant, The City of Rock Springs, has no re- 
quest to make for an amendment or addition to the tran- 
script, filed by the plaintiff, setting forth in narrative form 
the evidence given upon the trial of said cause. 

Dated October 13th, 1931. 


The City of Rock Springs, by T. S. Taliafero, Jr., 
Its Special Attorney. 


In Unitrep Starts Disrricr Courr 
Petition FoR AppEAL—Filed Oct. 14, 1931 


To the Honorable T. Blake Kennedy, district judge in and 
for said district: 


The above named plaintiff, Boeing Air Transport, Inc., 
being aggrieved by the decree made and entered in this 
cause heretofore, to-wit, on the 23rd day of July, 1931, does 
hereby appeal from said decree to the Circuit Court of Ap- 
peals of the United States for the Tenth Circuit, for the 
reasons specified in the Assignments of Error filed here- 
with, and the said Boeing Air Transport, Ine., prays that 
its appeal be allowed and that citation issue as provided by 
law and that a transcript of the record, proceedings and 
papers upon which said decree was based, duly authenti- 
cated, be sent to the United States Circuit Court of Appeals 
for the Tenth Circuit. 

{fol.111] This petitioner further prays that an order be 
entered fixing the amount of the bond for costs to be given 
by this plaintiff upon such appeal. 


John W. Lacey, John U. Loomis, Solicitors and Of 
Counsel for Plaintiff. 


In Unitep States District Court 
ASSIGNMENTS OF Error—Filed Oct. 14, 1931 


Comes now the said plaintiff, Boeing Air Transport, Inc., 
the appellant herein, and says that the decree entered in 
this cause heretofore, to-wit, on the 23rd day of July, A. D. 


112 


1931, is erroneous and against the just rights of said plain- 
tiff, for the following reasons: 


1. The court erred in its finding of fact to the effect that 
the City of Cheyenne has expended substantial sums of 
money in improving its airport landing field and maintain- 
the same, and will be compelled to spend additional sub- 
stantial sums for the same purpose, for that 


(a) The said finding of fact is not sustained by sufficient 
evidence. 


(b) Said finding of fact is so indefinite and uncertain 
that no conclusion of law could be based upon it. 


2. The court erred in its finding of fact ‘‘that said tax of 
four cents per gallon on gasoline imposed upon the plain- 
tiff is likewise imposed upon others similarly situated, with 
the uniform application,’’ for that 


(a) Said finding of fact is upon matter outside the issues 
in said cause and is irrelevant. 


(b) Said finding of fact is not sustained by sufficient 
evidence. 


3. The court erred in its finding of fact to the effect 
‘‘that the plaintiff’s gasoline used as an instrumentality of 
Interstate Commerce for the use of which the four cents 
per gallon tax is imposed has not previously been subjected 
to such tax either within or without the State of Wyom- 
ing,’’ for that 


[fol.112] (a) Said finding of fact is outside the issues in 
said cause and is irrelevant. 


(b) The said finding of fact is not sustained by sufficient 
evidence. 


4. The court erred in its conclusion of law ‘‘that the stat- 
ute of December 21, 1929, so far as the same levies or at- 
tempts to levy a tax of four cents per gallon on gasoline 
taken into plaintiff’s airplanes at Cheyenne and used as an 
instrumentality of interstate commerce in propelling plain- 
tiff’s airplanes in such commerce, was and is constitutional 
and valid under the facts and circumstances’’ found by the 
court, for that under the pleadings and the facts and cir- 
cumstances found the said statute, so far as the same levies 


ed Pl ae cee 


— YR REN ORTRAENE, TH ORAM HYPER AAP END 


115 


or attempts to levy said tax on or for the use of gasoline 
taken into plaintiff’s airplanes at Cheyenne and used as an 
instrumentality of interstate commerce in propelling plain- 
tiff’s airplanes in such commerce, unlawfully imposes a 
burden upon interstate commerce in violation of Clause 3 
of Section 8 of Article I of the Constitution of the United 
States. 


d. The court erred in its conclusion of law ‘that the stat- 
ute of December 21, 1929, so far as the same levies or at- 
tempis to levy a tax of four cents per gallon on gasoline 
taken into plaintiff's airplanes at Cheyenne and used as an 
instrumentality of interstate commerce in propelling plain- 
tiff’s airplanes in such commerce, was and is constitutional 
and valid, for that as applied to said gasoline as so used as 
an instrumentality of interstate commerce the said statute 
under the pleadings and the facts shown by the evidence 
was and is unconstitutional and void, in that it unlawfully 
imposes a burden on interstate commerce in violation of 
Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article I of the Constitution of the 
United States. 


. 


SPSL SP 


6. The court erred in its conclusion of law ‘‘that the stat- 
ute of December 21, 1929, so far as the same levies or at- 
tempts to levy a tax of four cents per gallon on gasoline 
taken into plaintiff’s airplanes at Cheyenne and used as an 
instrumentality of interstate commerce in propelling plain- 
tiff’s airplanes in such commerce, was and is constitutional 
and valid under the facts and cireumstances’’ found by the 
court, for that under the pleadings and the facts and cir- 
cumstances found by the court the said statute, so far as 
[fol. 113] the same levies or attempts to levy such tax on 
or for the use of gasoline taken into plaintiff’s airplanes 
at Cheyenne and used as an instrumentality of interstate 
commerce in propelling plaintiff’s airplanes in such com- 
merce if so applied and enforced impairs, in violation of 
Section 10 of Article I of the Constitution of the United 
States, the obligation of the contract of the City of Chey- 
enne with the plaintiff entered into July 1st, 1929, and prior 
to the enactment of said statute, in which contract said City 
agreed that no charge for any use which it might make of 
the municipal field and landing field at Cheyenne should be 


8-571 


- —" 


114 


exacted from the plaintiff additional to that in the said 
contract between the said City and the plaintiff specifically 
provided. 


7. The court erred in its conclusion of law ‘‘That the stat- 
ute of December 21, 1929, so far as the same levies or at- 
tempts to levy a tax of four cents per gallon on gasoline 
taken into plaintiff’s airplanes at Cheyenne and used as an 
instrumentality of interstate commerce in propelling plain- 
tiff’s airplanes in such commerce, was and is constitutional 
and valid for that under the pleadings and the facts shown 
by the evidence the said statute, so far as the same levies or 
attempts to levy such tax on or for the use of gasoline taken 
into plaintiff’s airplanes at Cheyenne and used as an instru- 
mentality of interstate commerce in propelling plaintiff’s 
airplanes in such commerce, if so applied, and enforced, 
impairs, in violation of Section 10 of Article I of the Con- 
stitution of the United States, the obligation of the contract 
of the City of Cheyenne with the plaintiff entered into July 
1st, 1929, and prior to the enactment of said statute, in 
which contract said City agreed that no charge for any use 
which it might make of the municipal field and landing field 
at Cheyenne should be exacted from the plaintiff additional 
to that in the said contract between the said City and the 
plaintiff specifically provided. 


8. The court erred in its conclusion of law that plaintiff’s 
action, so far as relates to the collection and threatened col- 
lection under the Wyoming statute of December 21, 1929, of 
the tax of four cents per gallon on gasoline taken into plain- 
tiff’s airplanes at Cheyenne and used in propelling said air- 
planes in plaintiff’s interstate commerce, should be dis- 
missed on the merits, for that under the pleadings and the 
facts and circumstances found by the court (and likewise 
|fol. 114] under the pleadings and the facts shown by the 
evidence) plaintiff was and is entitled to the conclusion of 
law that the pleadings and the facts require an injunction 
against the City of Cheyenne and against the State Treas- 
urer acting for its benefit enjoining the collection of such 
taxes as unlawfully burdening interstate commerce and 
unlawfully impairing the obligation of the contract of Chey- 
enne under its contract of July 1, 1929. 


9. The court erred in its conclusion of law ‘‘that the 
statute of December 21, 1929, so far as the same levies or 


/ 


atti 
e 
aS 


—— 


POR Dh IDA RINNE REINA DUN RAILING ERAS SATE SURE SLATE MEN RG ELE ATPG — 


115 


attempts to levy a tax of four cents per gallon on gasoline 
taken into plaintiff’s airplanes at Rock Springs and used 
as an instrumentality of interstate commerce in propelling 
plaintiff’s airplanes in such commerce, was and is consti- 
tutional and valid under the facts and circumstances,”’ 
found by the court for that as applied to said gasoline as 
so used as an instrumentality of interstate commerce the 
said statute under the pleadings and the facts found (and 
likewise under the pleadings and the facts shown by the 
evidence) was and is unconstitutional and void, in that it 
unlawfully imposes a burden on interstate commerce in 
violation of Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article I of the Consti- 
tution of the United States. 


10. The court erred in its conclusion of law to the effect 
‘*That this action by the plaintiff, so far as relates to the 
collection and threatened collection under the Wyoming 
statute of December 21, 1929, of the tax of four cents per 
gallon on gasoline taken into plaintiff’s airplanes at Chey- 
enne and used in propelling plaintiff’s airplanes in inter- 
state commerce, should be dismissed on the merits,’’ for 
that instead of the conclusion of law last aforesaid, the 
pleadings and the facts found by the court (and likewise 
the pleadings and the facts shown by the evidence) required 
a conclusion of law that the injunction as to said taxes 
should be granted as prayed for. 


11. The court erred in its conclusion of law to the effect 
‘that this action by the plaintiff, so far as relates to the col- 
lection and threatened collection under the Wyoming statute 
of December 21, 1929, of the tax of four cents per gallon on 
gasoline taken into plaintiff’s airplanes at Rock Springs and 
used in propelling plaintiff’s airplanes in interstate com- 
merce, should be dismissed on the merits,’’ for that instead 
of the conclusion of law last aforesaid, the pleadings and 
the facts found by the court (and likewise the pleadings and 
[fol. 115] the facts shown by the evidence) required a con- 
clusion of law that the injunction as to said taxes should be 
granted as prayed for. 


12. The court erred in its deeree. 


(a) In so far as the said decree denied the injunction 
prayed for in relation to the taxes complained of on gasoline 


FPO DEMATTEIS “ 


116 


taken into plaintiff’s airplanes at Cheyenne and used as an 
instrumentality of interstate commerce. 


(b) In so far as the said decree dismissed on the merits 
plaintiff’s cause so far as relates to the taxes complained of 
on gasoline taken into plaintiff’s airplanes at Cheyenne and 
used as an instrumentality of interstate commerce. 


(c) In so far as the said decree denied the injunction 
prayed for in relation to the taxes complained of on gasoline 
taken into plaintiff’s airplanes at Rock Springs and used as 
an instrumentality of interstate commerce. 


(d) In so far as the said decree dismissed on the merits 
plaintiff’s cause so far as relates to the taxes complained of 
on gasoline taken into plaintiff’s airplanes at Rock Springs 
and used as an instrumentality of interstate commerce. 


Wherefore, plaintiff prays that the said decree and order 
of the court may be reversed and for such other and fur- 
ther relief as to the court may seem just and proper. 


John W. Lacey, John U. Loomis, Attorneys for 
Plaintiff. 


In Unitep States District Court 
Orper ALLowIne ApPpEAL—Filed Oct. 14, 1931 


This cause coming on now to be lieard this 14th day of 
October, 1931, upon the petition of the plaintiff for an ap- 
peal to the United States Cireuit Court of Appeals for 
the Tenth Circuit, and the Court being fully advised, does 
hereby grant said petition and allow said appeal, and does 
hereby fix the sum of Five Hundred Dollars ($500.00) as 
the amount of the bond for costs to be given by said plain- 
tiff on said appeal. 


{fol.116] Dated this 14th day of October, A. D. 1931. 
T. Blake Kennedy, Judge. 


[ Bond on appeal in the sum of $500, approved by the Dis- 
trict Judge, with Appellant as principal and Fidelity & 


See ere VE Phony PON tera 
ili 


Deposit Company of Maryland as surety, was filed in the — 
District Court on Oct. 14, 1931.] 


[Citation in proper form, directed to Appellees, with ac- 
ceptance of service by counsel for said Appellees, was filed 
in the District Court on Oct. 24, 1931.] 


_———— 


In Unitep States District Court 
Pracipr ror Transcripr—Filed Oct. 20, 1931 


To Charles J. Ohnhaus, Clerk of the District Court of the 
United States for the District of Wyoming: 


You are hereby requested to prepare a transcript on ap- 
peal in the above entitled case and to include therein the 
following portions of the record, to-wit: 


1. Bill of Complaint, filed November 25, 1930, omitting 
therefrom the statutes appearing as Exhibits. 

2. Separate Answer of the Defendant, The City of Rock 
Springs, filed December 18, 1530. 

3. Separate Answer of the defendant, The City of Chey- 
enne, filed December 27, 1930, omitting therefrom the Ex- 
hibit A, being the contract between the plaintiff and the 
City of Cheyenne, and in connection with said Answer refer 
to the copy of said contract as set out in the narrative 
statement of the evidence. 

+. Separate Answer of the Defendant, W. H. Edelman, 
State Treasurer, filed December 16, 1930. 

3. Supplemental Bill of Complaint, filed May 26, 1931. 

6. Stipulation re Supplemental Bill of Complaint, filed 
May 26, 1931. 

7. Memorandum opinion by Judge Kennedy, filed June 
27, 1931. 

[fol. 117] &. Findings of Fact, Conclusions of Law and 
Decree, filed July 23, 1931. 

9. Narrative Statement of Evidence, including approval 
by court, filed August 20, 1931. 

10. Petition for Appeal, filed October 14, 1931. 

11. Assignment of Errors, filed October 14, 1931. 

12. Order allowing appeal, filed October 14, 1931. 

13. Bond, filed October 14, 1931. 


ACS WE EAST LATENT A ay DORAEE INT 


118 


14. Citation, including proof of service, dated October 
14, 1931. 


John W. Lacey, John U. Loomis, Attorneys for 
Plaintiff. 


Service of the attached Precipe for Transcript by copy 
is acknowledged this 16th day of October, 1931. 


J. A. Greenwood, Attorney General of Wyoming and 
Attorney for Defendants, William H. Edelman, 
State Treasurer, and Harry R. Weston, State 
Treasurer. H. B. Henderson, Jr., Attorney for 
Defendant, The City of Cheyenne. T. S. Talia- 
ferro, Jr., Attorney for Defendant, The City of 
Rock Springs. 


a 


In Unitep States District Court 


SuPPLEMENTAL Pr2&cIPE ror TranscriptT—Filed Oct. 24, 
1931 


To Charles J. Ohnhaus, Clerk of the District Court of the 
United States for the District of Wyoming: 


You are hereby requested to prepare a transcript on 
appeal in the above entitled case and to include therein the 
following portions of the record, to-wit: 


[fol.118] 1. Order entered on Stipulation re Supple- 
mental Bill of Complaint. 

2. Election as to printing transcript. 

3. Precipe and Supplemental Precipe for record. 


John W. Lacey, John U. Loomis, Attorneys for 
Plaintiff. 


Service of the attached Supplemental Precipe for Tran- 
seript by copy is acknowledged this 20th day of October, 
1931. 

Richard J. Jackson, Dep. Attorney General of Wyo- 
ming and One of the Attorneys for Defendants, 
William H. Edelman, State Treasurer, and Harry 
R. Weston, State Treasurer. H. B. Henderson, 
Jr., Attorney for Defendant, The City of Chey- 
enne. T.§. Taliaferro, Jr., Attorney for Defend- 
ant, The City of Rock Springs. 


Lin 


119 
In Unitep States District Court 


John W. Lacey of Cheyenne, Wyo., for Plaintiff. 

James A. Greenwood, Attorney General of Wyoming, 
and Richard J. Jackson, George W. Ferguson and Philip 
S. Garbutt, Assistant Attorneys General, all of Cheyenne, 
Wyo., for Defendant State Treasurer. 

Harry B. Henderson, Jr., of Cheyenne, Wyo., for De- 
fendant City of Cheyenne. 

T. S. Taliaferro, Jr., and F. D. Johnson of Rock Springs, 
Wyo., for Defendant City of Rock Springs. 


JupGE’s MemoranpumM—Filed June 27, 1931 


Kennepy, Judge: 
Decided June 27, 1931. 


[fol. 119] This is a suit in equity in which the plaintiff 
seeks to restrain the enforcement of a state law in regard 
to the collection of a gasoline tax upon the gasoline used 
hy the plaintiff in its operation of an air line in interstate 
commerce in connection with the use of airports at the 
Cities of Cheyenne and Rock Springs in the State of 
Wyoming. The prayer of the bill seeks an interlocutory 
injunction and upon final hearing a permanent injunction 
against the collection of such tax. 

The set-up of the case is one which would seem to bring 
it within the purview of a statutory court of three judges 
(28 U.S. C. A. 380), but as no action was taken by the 
plaintiff to move for a hearing upon an interlocutory 
injunction, the case proceeded to final hearing before a 
single judge without objection on the part of the defend- 
ants and we assume therefore, that the court has juris- 
diction of the proceeding. Seaboard Air Line Railway v. 
Railroad Commission, 213 Fed. 27 (C. C. A. 5). 

The substance of the statutory enactment challenged by 
the plaintiff as being unconstitutional in regard to the 
interstate business of the plaintiff is found in Chapter 14 
of the Session Laws of Wyoming, 1929, Special Session, 
reading as follows: 


‘On and after April 1, 1929, each and every wholesaler 
as defined in this Act, who is now engaged or who may 
hereafter engage in his own name, or in the name of others, 


pM AK Mh tere bages 2 ol 


2 
& 
: 


120 


or in the name of his representatives or agents in this 
State, in the sale or use of gasoline as herein defined shall 
not later than the fifteenth of each month, render to the 
State Treasurer a statement of all gasoline sold or used by 
them in the State of Wyoming during the preceding calen- 
dar month, and pay to the State Treasurer at the same 
time, the license tax of four cents per gallon on all such 
gasoline. Said statement to the State Treasurer shall be 
upon blanks furnished by him, and shall be sworn to by the 
owner or managing agent in the case of an individual, 
firm or association, by the resident general agent or attor- 
ney, in the case of a foreign corporation or by one of the 
principal officers in the case of a domestic corporation. 
Every person, firm or corporation, who shall use any gas- 
oline in this state upon which the said tax has not been 
paid by any wholesaler in this state, shall, on or before 
the 15th day of each calendar month, beginning with the 
[fol. 120] first calendar month after this Act has become 
effective, render a true statement to the State Treasurer, 
duly signed and sworn to, and accompany such statement 
with the payment of a tax of four cents per gallon on all 
gasoline as shown by such statement to have been used by 
him; provided that before making the distribution of funds 
provided for in Section 1 hereof the State Treasurer shall 
pay over all funds received from the gasoline license tax 
on gasoline used at any municipal air field to the city or 
town where such air field is located, to be used for the 
maintenance and improvement of such air field.”’ 


Upon the final hearing testimony was adduced by the 
parties and the following may be considered as a sketchy 
outline of the facts in the ease. 

The plaintiff is a corporation organized and existing 
under the laws of the state of Washington and engaged in 
the operation of an air transport line upon regular 
schedule between Chicago, Illinois, and San Francisco, 
California. In such operation it enjoys a contract with the 
United States government in the transportation of United 
States mails and likewise transports passengers and ex- 
press for hire over its entire line. The substantial portion 
of its business is interstate, in fact the testimony shows 
that its transportation of mails, passengers or express 
within the state of Wyoming is an insignificant percentage 


Ul 
“ 


oF 
S 
Ss 
= 
Re 


a 


of its entire business so that it would be impractical and 
impossible to determine or estimate the relative amount of 
gasoline which would be consumed in carrying on its intra- 
state business. In the operation of its air line it makes 
use of two landing fields owned by the defendant Cities of 
Cheyenne and Rock Springs, respectively, at which points 
its planes are regularly landed on schedule for the dis- 
charge and reception of mail, passengers and express. At 
these points its planes are refueled, examined and condi- 
tioned. Some time after the passage and operation of the 
law which the plaintiff challenges, it began a segregation 
of the gasoline used by it by tolling the amount of such 
gasoline which was used for the operation of its ships, 
traveling in interstate commerce, as distinguished from 
the gasoline which was used in the testing of airships at 
the field, conditioning its motors and sales made to other 
airplane users. As to the first mentioned gasoline, the tax 
of four cents per gallon was paid to the State Treasurer 
[fol.121] under protest in consideration of the high 
penalties fixed for a violation of the statute, but as to the 
latter classification of gasoline the said tax was paid 
thereon to the State Treasurer without protest. During 
the period covering substantially eight months, from the 
15th of March, 1930, to the 15th of November, 1930, the 
plaintiff paid to the State Treasurer in the amount of this 
protested tax, the sum of $5,529.28, representing the tax 
upon gasoline used in interstate commerce at the Cheyenne 
tield and during the same period it paid to the State Treas- 
urer $2,726.32 as representing the tax upon gasoline used 
in interstate commerce at the Rock Springs field. Testi- 
mony was likewise offered as to the continuing payments 
of said protested and unprotested amounts after the filing 
of the bill and substantially up to the final hearing. The 
amount testified to as having been paid of the unprotested 
tax is considerably less than that paid as the protested tax 
at both airports. The City of Cheyenne entered into a 
contract with the plaintiff Company some time in the year 
of 1929 which provided for the use of the municipal air 
field by the plaintiff in the operation of its transcontinental 
air line. The provisions of such contract are numerous 
and not all of them are material to the matter here being 
considered. Among other provisions of the contract it 


aa re Pog OES 


122 


may be said that the plaintiff and the city were to share 
the expense of grading additional land and building a new 
outlining lighting system at a cost of $7,000.00. The city 
agrees to acquire additional land for the airport for which 
it should pay the expense and that it should keep the field 
during the term of the lease (designated as twenty-five 
years), as a well maintained and well regulated airplane 
landing field for the reasonable use of any and all planes 
and airships operated by the paintiff. Im addition, the 
plaintiff agrees to pay the city an annual rental of $1,050.00 
for hangar space and taxi-ways and $3,000.00 for rental of 
several hangars located on the field and owned by the city. 
The city agrees to pay the plaintiff $2,400.00 a vear for the 
general supervision of the field, under the general direction 
of the city. Similar contract relations exist between the 
plaintiff and the city of Rock Springs but of less magni- 
tude owing to the smaller business of the Company at that 
point, but involving a rental there paid by the plaintiff of 
$600.00 per year. At both ports the plaintiff has the privi- 
lege of selling gasoline to the public for airplane purposes. 
As to the city of Cheyenne, the money received from the 
[fol. 122] State Treasurer representing this tax on gaso- 
line used at the airport is placed in an airport fund and 
used exclusively for the purpose of improving and main- 
taining the airfield. During the vear last past not all of 
the money so received and maintained in this separate fund 
had been expended but all of which had been expended was 
expended in connection with the airport. No direct testi- 
mony was offered by the city of Rock Springs as to its 
segregation of this money received from the State Treas- 
urer, except as it may be inferred that the general purpose 
of the law would be carried out by that municipality. In 
Cheyenne, at a recent popular election, a bond issue was 
voted upon and approved by the people authorizing the 
expenditure of $15,000.00 for various purposes in con- 
nection with the improving of its municipal airfield. 
Under these circumstances the plaintiff contends that 
the law requiring the payment of the tax of four cents per 
gallon so segregated and used by it in the operation of its 
air line in interstate commerce is unconstitutional as 
applied to the plaintiff, in that it is in direct contravention 
of the commerce clause of the constitution. Counsel in 


LOO R Sy TTDIIES 


LENE AOSD PTR EINE DLN PIE DAE, 


123 


such contention rely principally upon the case of Helson v. 
Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245, where the state of Kentucky at- 
tempted to tax 75% of the gasoline consumed within the 
limits of Kentucky by a ferry boat operating exclusively 
in interstate commerce. The court through Mr. Justice 
Sutherland at page 248 expresses the gist of the decision 
in the following language: 


‘‘The claim under the commerce clause of the federal 
Constitution was denied on the ground that the tax was 
confined to gasoline used within the limits of the state and 
the commerce clause was not affected. It is with the latter 
question only that we are here concerned. 

Regulation of interstate and foreign commerce is a 
matter committed exclusively to the control of Congress, 
and the rule is settled by innumerable decisions of this 
court, unnecessary to be cited, that a state law which 
directly burdens such commerce by taxation or otherwise, 
constitutes a regulation beyond the power of the state 
under the Constitution.’” * * * ‘The power vested in 
Congress to regulate commerce embraces within its control 
all the instrumentalities by which that commerce may be 
carried on. Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra, 
[fol. 123] p. 204. A state cannot ‘lay a tax on interstate 
commerce in any form, whether by way of duties laid on 
the transportation of the subjects of that commerce, or on 
the receipts derived from that transportation, or on the 
occupation or business of carrying it on.’ Leloup v. Port 
of Mobile, 117 U. 8S. 640, 648; Lyng v. Michigan, 135 U. S. 
161, 166; Ozark Pipe Line v. Monier, 266 U. S. 555, 562. 
While a state has power to tax property having a situs 
within its limits, whether employed in interstate commerce 
or not, it cannot interfere with interstate commerce 
through the imposition of a tax which is, in effect, a tax for 
the privilege of transacting such commerce. Adams Ex- 
press Company v. Ohio, 166 U. S. 185, 218.”” 


Later in the decision at page 252 the following language 
is used: 

‘The statute here assailed clearly comes within the prin- 
ciple of these and numerous other decisions of like charac- 
ter which might be added. The tax is exacted as the price 
of the privilege of using an instrumentality of interstate 


page rosea 


124 


commerce. It reasonably cannot be distinguished from a 
tax for using a locomotive or a car employed in such com- 
merce. A tax laid upon the use of the ferry boat, would 
present an exact parallel. And is not the fuel consumed in 
propelling the boat an instrumentality of commerce no less 
than the boat itself? A tax, which falls directly upon the 
use of one of the means by which commerce is carried on, 
directly burdens that commerce. If a tax cannot be laid 
by a state upon the interstate transportation of the sub- 
jects of commerce, as this court definitely has held, it is 
little more than repetition to say that such a tax cannot be 
laid upon the use of a medium by which such transportation 
is effected. ‘All restraints by exactions in the form of taxes 
upon such transportation, or upon acts necessary to its 
completion, are so many invasions of the exclusive power 
of Congress to regulate that portion of commerce between 
the States.’ Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra, 
p. 214.’’ 


In U. S. Airways v. Shaw, 43 Fed. (2) 148, a statutory 
court in the Tenth Circuit sitting in the Western District 
of Oklahoma decided a case similar in many respects to the 
[fol. 124] case at bar, by declaring the statute invalid. The 
substance of the decision is fairly set forth in paragraphs 
one and two of the syllabus, which read as follows: 


‘State statute levying excise tax on gasoline held in- 
valid as interference with interstate commerce as applied 
to air transportation companies engaged in interstate trans- 
portation business (Const. art 1, * 8, cl. 3; Laws Okl. 1923, 3 
ec. 239, as amended by Laws 1923-24, ec. 101, Laws 19235, e¢. : 
198, and Laws 1929 (Sp. Sess.) ee. 278, 279). 

Complaining parties are engaged in the transportation 
by airplane of passengers, freight, express, and mail from 
points outside to points within the state and vice versa. 
Gasoline used as motor power in airplanes in question is 
purchased largely within state, and tax in question is paid 
through consignees and distributors of gasoline.’’ 

‘*Intrastate operation of air transportation company held 
interdependent with interstate commerce, rendering gaso- 
line used in intrastate business not subject to excise tax 
(Const. art. 1, * 8, el. 3; Laws Okl. 1923, ¢. 239, as amended 
by Laws 1923-24, ec. 101, Laws 1925, ¢. 198, and Laws 1929 
(Sp. Sess.) ec. 278, 279). 


4 


es IIOP nS LLL TINO ME : ed 


Airway companies engaged in interstate transportation 
business carrying passengers, freight, express, and mail 
from points outside to points within state, and vice versa, 
conducted a like intrastate transportation business without 
which interstate transportation business could not be effi- 
ciently and economically conducted.’’ 


: 


Later a statutory court again in the Tenth Circuit sitting 
in the District of New Mexico rendered a similar decision 
in Midcontinent Air Express Corp v. Lujan, 47 Fed. (2) 
266, holding that a tax upon gasoline used by a transport 
corporation in interstate commerce where it was likewise 
engaged in intrastate commerce and incidental to the ‘ 
former, made the entire tax bad. The gist of the decision ; 
is fairly suggested in the second paragraph of the syllabus 
reading as follows: 


‘*Eixcise tax upon all gasoline used by air transport cor- 

poration engaged in interstate commerce and intrastate 
commerce incident») thereto held direct burden on inter- 
state commerce, . therefore invalid (Comp. St. N. M. 
1929, ** 60-101, 60-203). 
[fol.125] Air transport corporation operated from point 
in Texas through state of New Mexico to point in Colorado, 
and engaged in transporting passengers, freight, and ex- 
press for hire. It also carried on intrastate business, but 
such business was merely incidental to interstate business. 
Two classes of business were so interdependent and so com- 
mingled, both with reference to receipts and expenses, that 
amount of gasoline used in each could not be determined 
and apportioned.”’ 


It is not contended that.the entire tax on gasoline used at 
the airports in this ease is invalid, for the reason that it is 
capable of segregation and actually has been segregated as 
to its use in interstate commerce and intrastate commerce 
and only the enforcement of the law which purports to levy 
and collect the tax upon gasoline used in interstate com- 
merce is challenged. 

Were the situation in the case at bar in all respects anal- 
ogous to the cases last cited, it would require no further 
comment from this court as to those decisions ruling this 
case, especially in view of the fact that three of the dis- 
tinguished present Circuit Judges (Cotteral, Phillips and 


aire 


APE PONANL Saal Abc BES AINE P GRRL, NEES 


126 


McDermott) of the Tenth Circuit sat upon the statutory 
courts. But there is another angle of the case which makes 
it less clear to me on account of a peculiar feature of the 
statute in question. The last paragraph of the statute pro- 
vides in substance, that the tax received from gasoline 
used at any municipal airfield be paid by the State Treas- 
urer receiving the same to the city where such airfield is 
located to be used for the maintenance and improvement 
of such field. The query in the mind of the court is as to 
whether or not this does not bring the statute in question 
within the scope of another line of cases presenting a dif- 
ferent feature of the law. The thought can be best ex- 
pressed by a reference to some of these. In Hendrick v. 
Maryland, 235 U. 8. 610, which is a case concerning a grad- 
uated license fee on motor vehicles engaged in interstate 
commerce, Mr. Justice MeReynolds in speaking for the 
court at page 623-624 says: 


‘In view of the many decisions of this court there can 
be no serious doubt that where a State at its own expense 
furnishes special facilities for the use of those engaged 
in commerce, interstate as well as domestic, it may exact 
compensation therefor. The amount of the charges and 
[fol. 126] the method of collection are primarily for de. 
termination by the State itself; and so long as they are 
reasonable and are fixed according to some uniform, fair 
and practical standard they constitute no burden on inter- 
state commerce. Transportation Co. v. Parkersburg, 107 
U. S. 691, 699; Huse v. Glover, 119 U. S. 548, 548, 549; 
Monongahela Navigation Co. v. United States, 148 U.S. 
312, 329, 330; Minnesota Rate Cases, 280 U. S. 352, 405; 
and authorities cited. The action of the State must be 
treated as correct unless the contrary is made to appear. 
In the instant case there is no evidence concerning the 
value of the facilities supplied by the State, the cost of 
maintaining them, or the fairness of the methods adopted 
for collecting the charges imposed; and we cannot say from 
a mere inspection of the statute that its provisions are 
arbitrary or unreasonable.”’ 


Og Ee 


In Postal Telegraph Cable Company v. City of Rich- 
mond, 249 U. S. 252, involving a tax to be paid by a tele- 
graph company engaged in interstate and intrastate busi- 
ness, Mr. Justice Clarke at page 259-260, says: 


ER Ridiakes HRs Seb UR oP F oe : Soars) 4 VRE re RACAA KEN CIE ee, | 


127 


‘‘Even if the net returns from the intrastate business 
should not equal such tax aud it must be paid from inter- 
state earnings, this alone would not be conclusive against 
its validity. If the method of doing interstate business 
necessarily imposes duties and liabilities upon a munici- 
pality, it may not be charged with the cost of these with- 
out just compensation. Even interstate business must 
pay its way,—in this case for its right of way and the ex- 
pense to others incident to the use of it. St. Louis v. West- 
ern Union Telegraph Co., 148 U.S. supra, pp. 98, et seq.; 
Atlantic & Pacific Telegraph Co. v. Philadelphia, 190 U. S. 
160, 163; St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 149 
U.S. 465. Such compensation should also inelude the ex- 
pense of inspection of the poles and wires used, and of such 
supervision of the business of the company conducted in 
the streets, as may be reasonably necessary to secure the 
safety of life and property of the inhabitants and of the 
users of the streets; but with the authority in the courts, 
on proper application, to determine whether, under the 
conditions prevailing in a given case, the charge made is 
reasonably proportionate to the service to be rendered and 
{fol. 127] the liabilities involved, or whether it is a dis- 
euised attempt to impose a burden on interstate commerce, 
St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 148 U. S. 92; 
St. Louis v. Western Union Telegraph Co., 149 U.S. 465; 
Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Baltimore, 156 U. S. 210; 
Atlantic & Pacific Telegraph Co, v. Philadelphia, 190 U.S. 
160, 163; Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Pennsylvania 
R. R. Co, 195 U.S. 540, 566; Western Union Telegraph 
Co, v. Richmond, 224 U.S. 160, 169.”’ 


In Kane y. State of New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160, involving 
the registration fee of vehicles of non-residents moving 
in interstate commerce, a paragraph of the syllabus reads 
as follows: . 


‘*As applied to vehicles of non-residents moving in inter- 
state commerce as well as to vehicles of residents, the 
amount of the registration fee may properly be based not 
only on the cost of inspection and regulation, but also on 
the cost of maintaining improved roads.’’ 


In Clark v. Poor, 274 U.S. 554, Mr. Justice Brandeis in 
discussing a tax upon motor vehicles operating as common 


128 


carriers exclusively in interstate commerce, at page 556- 
557, says: 


“The plaintiffs claim that, as applied to them, the Act 
violates the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. 
They insist that, as they are engaged exclusively in inter- 
state commerce, they are not subject to regulation by the 
State; that it is without power to require that before us- 
ing its highways they apply for and obtain a certificate ; 
and that it is also without power to impose, in addition to 
the annual license fee demanded of all persons using auto- 
mobiles on the highways, a tax upon them, under 614-94, 
for the maintenance and repair of the highways and for 
the administration and enforcement of the laws govern- 
ing the use of the same. The contrary is settled. The 
highways are public property. Users of them, although 
engaged exclusively in interstate commerce, are subject 
to regulation by the State to ensure safety and conven- 
ience and the conservation of the highways. Morris v. 
Duby, ante, p. 135; Hess v. Pawloski, ante, p. 352. Users 
of them, although engaged exclusively in interstate com- 
merece, may be required to contribute to their cost & up- 
[fol. 128] keep. Common carriers for hire, who make the 
highways their place of business, may properly be charged 
an extra tax for such use, Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U.S. 
610; Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. 8S. 160. Compare Pack- 
ard v. Banton, 264 U, S. 140, 144.°’ 


Later the same Justice in Sprout v. City of South Bend, 
277 U. S. 168, in discussing a license fee imposed upon 
those engaged in interstate commerce at page 169 says: 


‘Tt is true that, in the absence of federal legislation 
covering the subject, the State may impose, even upon 
vehicles using the highways exclusively in interstate com- 
merece, non-diseriminatory regulations for the purpose of 
insuring the public safety and convenience; that licensing 
or registration of busses in a measure appropriate to that 
end; and that a license fee no larger in amount than is 
reasonably required to defray the expense of administer- 
ing the regulations may be demanded. Hendrick v. Mary- 
land, 235 U. S. 610, 622; Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U.S. 
160; Morris v. Duby, 274 U. S. 185; Clark v. Poor, 274 U. 
S. 554. Compare Hess v. Pawloski, 274 U. S. 352. These 


ASIEN Mar eh TNL Mh. Rig Li aoe tl 


129 


powers may also be exercised by a city if authorized to 
do so by appropriate legislation. Compare Erb vy. Morasch, 
177 U.S. 584, 585; Mackay Telegraph Co. v. Little Rock, 
250 U. S. 94, 99. Such regulations rest for their validity 
upon the same basis as do state inspection laws, Patapsco 
Guano Co. vy. Board of Agriculture, 171 U. S. 345; Red 
“C?? Oil Co. v. Board of Agriculture, 222 U. S. 380, and 
municipal ordinances imposing on telegraph companies, 
though engaged in interstate commerce, a tax to def "ay 
the expense incident to the inspection of poles and wires, 
Western Union Telegraph Co, v. New Hope, 187 U. 8, 419: 
Postal Telegraph-Cable Co. v. Richmond, 249 U. S. 252, 
208; Mackay Telegraph Co. v. Little Rock, 250 U.S. 94, 99.°° 


The most recent pronouncement of the high court called 
to my attention, is that found in Interstate Transit Co., 
Ine. v. Dick Lindsey, decided April 13, 1931. In that case a 
tax imposed by the State of Tennessee on busses engaged 
in interstate commerce was held unconstitutional. The 
basis of the decision, however, is the fact that the Tennes- 
see statute was upon its face not enacted for any purpose 
[fol. 129] looking to the construction and maintenance of 
the state highways, but was merely a privilege tax for the 
carrying on of interstate business. The pertinent portion 
of the opinion setting forth legal principles which may be 
said to apply to the ease at bar is as follows: 


“While a State may not lay a tax on the privilege of en- 
gaging in interstate commerce, Sprout v. South Bend, 277 
U.S. 168, it may impose even upon motor vehicles engaged 
exclusively in interstate eammerce a charge, as compensa- 
tion for the use of the publie highways, which is a fair con- 
tribution to the cost of constructing and maintaining them 
and of regulating the traffic thereon. Kane v. New Jersey, 
242 U.S. 160, 168-169; Clark v. Poor, 274 U. S. 554: Sprout 
v. South Bend, supra, pp. 169-179. As such a charge is a 
direct burden on interstate commerce, the tax cannot be 
sustained unless it appears affirmatively, in some way, that 
it is levied only as compensation for use of the highways or 
to defray the expense of regulating motor traffic. This may 
he indicated by the nature of the imposition, such as a mile- 


9—971 


RIE GER MD PITRE RIN TERE eT 


130 


age tax directly proportioned to the use, Interstate Busses 
Corp. v. Blodgett, 276 U. S. 245, or by the express allocation 
of the proceeds of the tax to highway purposes, as in Clark 
v. Poor, supra, or otherwise. Where it is shown that the 
tax is so imposed, it will be sustained unless the taxpayer 
shows that it bears no reasonable relation to the privilege 
of using the highways or is discriminatory. Hendrick v. 
Maryland, 235 U. 8, 610, 612; Interstate Busses Corp. v. 
Blodgett, 276 U. S. 245, 250-252. Compare Interstate 
Busses Corp. v. Holyoke Street Ry., 273 U.S. 45,51. But 
the mere fact that the tax falls upon one who uses the high- 
way is not enough to give it presumptive validity.”’ 


Applying the principle of these decisions to the facts and 
the statute in the case at bar, it seems to me, it falls within 
such principle and must be ruled accordingly. Certainly 
there can not be said to be substantial distinction because 
in the ease at bar the tax is not assessed by the municipal- 
itv but is assessed under a state law and later turned over 
to the municipality for the particular use designated. The 
result to the plaintiff is, of course, the same. Tere, the 
é tax on the gasoline used by the plaintiff in interstate com- 
merce is returned directly to the municipality for the main- 


3 
3 
x 
« 
: 


Si SRRGEE Saks) 


[fol. 180] tenance and improvements of the air fields which 

the plaintiff is using and in the end results in a benefit to 
# the plaintiff. Under the logic of the decisions above cited, 
¢ even interstate commerce must assist in paying its own 
3 way. The evidence in the case shows beyond peradven- 
g ture, that the much greater portion of the airplane traffic 
i at these municipal ports is that of plaintiff in the operation 
a of its interstate planes. Presumably, therefore, it would 
® secure the greater benefit in the matter of enlargement, im- 
d provement and maintenance of the fields at high standard. 
ia Neither can we see any way to make a substantial dis- 
= tinction for the purposes of the question here, between the 
ae maintenance of city streets or public highways as discussed 
Fs in the Supreme Court cases and an airplane landing field 
a open to all planes for general use. The facility of good 
a operating conditions, although different in the matter of 
~ use, is apparent in both. 
2 The only limitation under such cireumstanees is that the 
N tax should not be discriminatory and that if should be no 
Fe 


eo 


= ~ 


131 


larger in amount than is reasonably necessary to carry on 
the legitimate purpose for which it is intended. Sprout v. 
South Bend, supra. As to the amount of such tax as com- 
pared with its use to the purposes intended, it depends 
largely upon the judgment of the taxing authority, so long 
as the rule of reason is in control. Hendricks v. State of 
Maryland, supra. Neither is reasonableness of the tax to 
he measured merely by the value of the land oceupied, or 
the profits of the business, or by the amount expended in 
any particular year. Western Union Telegraph v. New 
Ilope, 187 U.S. 419. 

Considering the entire evidence in this case, taking into 
account all the expenses that the municipalities have here- 
tofore had, are having and contemplate having in the future 
in the matter of improving their municipal airports, I am 
not prepared to say that the tax so challenged is not fairly 
commensurate with the general purposes for which it is 
intended. We all know that municipalities throughout the 
land are continually expending from time to time many 
thousands of dollars in acquiring, perfecting and improv- 
ing their airports in the matter of keeping pace with the 
great forward strides of air transportation. It seems but 
fair that all this should be taken into consideration in de- 
termining the issues in this state. The airports of the 
future must be made great terminal facilities to acecommo- 
[fols. 131 & 132] date this ever increasing traffic and any 
tax received and devoted exclusively to this purpose will un- 
doubtedly in the stretch of time be inadequate to meet the 
reasonable demands of extension and improvement. 

For the reasons stated, findings, conclusions and a decree 
may be submitted, dismissing the bill at plaintiff's cost and 
reserving to if proper exceptions. 


Clerk’s Certificate to foregoing transcript omitted in 
printing, 


[fol. 183] Appearances of counsel omitted in printing. 


en 
132 


fol.134] Is Unrrep Sratres Circvir Covrr or Appears 
’ 
Tenta Circvir 


Orper or SuBMISSION 
Third Day, April Term, Wednesday, April 13th, A. 1D). 1932 


Before Honorable Robert KE. Lewis, Cireuit Judge, Honor- 
able George T. MeDermott, Cireuit Judge, and Honor- 
able John C. Pollock, District Judge. 


This cause came on to be heard and was argued by coun- 
sel, William M. Allen, Esquire, and John W. Lacey, Es- 
quire, appearing for appellant, and Thomas S. Taliaferro, 
Jr., Esquire, Harry B. Henderson, Jr., Esquire, George W. 
Ferguson, Esquire, and James A. Greenwood, Esquire, 
appearing for appellees. 

On motion, appellant was granted leave to file twenty 
printed copies of a reply brief in this cause, instanter, 
which was accordingly done. 

Thereupon this cause was submitted to the court. 


Ix Unrrep Sratres Circvir or APPEALS 
No. 578—September Term, 1932 


Mr. John W. Lacey and Mr. William M. Allen (Messrs. 
Lacey & Loomis, Mr. Eugene Luecock, and Messrs. Todd, 
Holinan & Sprague were with them on the brief), for ap- 
pellant. 

Mr. Thomas Seddon Taliaferro, Jr. (Mr. Fred W. John- 
son was with him on the brief), for appellee, The City of 
Rock Springs. 

Mr. James A. Greenwood, Attorney General, Mr. George 
W. Ferguson, Assistant Attorney General, and Mr. Harry 
B. Henderson, Jr., Attorney for the City of Chevenne (Mr. 
Richard J. Jackson, Deputy Attorney General, and Mr. 
Philip S. Garbutt, Assistant Attorney General, were with 
them on the brief), for appellees, State Treasurer and City 
of € hevenne. 


COE Eat eT SPS EE Or Ee or 
« 
133 


[fol. 155] Before Lewis and MeDermott, Cireuit Judges, 
and Pollock, District Judge 


Opinion —Oct. 4, 1932 


Lewis, Circuit Judge, delivered the opinion of the court: 


Appellant, a corporation under the laws of the State of 
Washington, brought this suit seeking an injunction 
against the State Treasurer of Wyoming restraining him 
from collecting from appellant a license tax imposed by 
the statutes of Wyoming on gasoline to be used by appel- 
lant in its airplanes in the transportation of passengers, 
express and United States mail in interstate commerce, 
and to recover the tax theretofore paid. In appellant’s 
business its planes, carrying both intrastate and interstate 
commerce, ply between Chicago, Illinois and Oakland, Cali- 
fornia, and by written agreements with Cheyenne, Wyom- 
ing, and Rock Springs, Wyoming, the planes land on mn- 
nicipal fields, at each of those places and take on gasoline, 
that being the fuel used to generate the needed power in 
flights. 

The bill charges that the Wyoming statute is an-inter- 
ference with and a burden on that commerce in violation 
of Clause 3, Section 8, Article I of the Constitution of the 
United States, and is therefore illegal and void, ‘‘in that 
the said statutes purport to impose and levy, and do im- 
pose and levy a tax on all gasoline purchased or consumed 
as fuel in Wyoming to propel airplanes flying between the 
said State and neighboring States in interstate commeree, 
thus exacting the said tax as the price of the privilege of 
using an instrumentality of interstate commerce and thus 
evading the exclusive power of Congress to regulate com- 
merece between the several states.’’ It is further charged: 


‘that under the provisions of said statutes the wholesale 
distributors or consignees of gasoline are made agents of 
the State of Wyoming for the purpose of collecting said 
vasoline tax, said agents acting under the direction of the 
defendant, State Treasurer, and while the said distributors 
and or consignees of gasoline actually collect, return and 
remit said tax to the State of Wyoming and to the de- 
fendant, the State Treasurer, said gasoline tax is in law 
and in practice levied and imposed against the consumer of 


134 


said gasoline within the State of Wyoming and not against 
the wholesale distributor or consignee, and such tax is paid 
[fol. 136] by all such consumers, ordinarily direct to the 
defendant, the Treasurer of the State of Wyoming, which 
said tax this plaintiff has been forced to pay in order to 
purchase or consume any gasoline in the State of Wyo- 
ming, and will hereafter be forced to pay until defendant, 
his agents, servants, employees, workmen and other per- 
sons acting by and through him are enjoined and re- 
strained from collecting the same by order of this court. 
. * * 

‘*Plaintiff further avers that * * * the plaintiff in 
order to continue to operate its said airplanes in the con- 
duct of its said business is compelled to purchase from time 
to time, and from day to day, large quantities of gasoline 
in the State of Wyoming, and that no such distributor or 
any other dealer in said State will sell such gasoline to the 
plaintiff unless the plaintiff so purchasing the same shall 
make payment of the said tax levied and assessed thereon 
at the time of the purchase thereof and that hence the 
plaintiff is unable to purchase any gasoline in the State of 
Wyoming for the operation or propulsion of its said air- 
planes without at the time paying the said tax thereon, 
and plaintiff alleges that by the express provisions of said 
Acts and or by the practical operation thereof by the de- 
fendant and the legal effect thereof the said tax is ab- 
sorbed in the price paid for all gasoline purchased in 
Wyoming for use or consumption in said State by the pur- 
chaser, including this plaintiff, and that under the provi- 
sions of said Acts the said tax, although required to be 
collected and returned to the State by the distributor of 
or dealer therein as the agent of the State, is both in prae- 
tice and in legal effect a tax on the consumer of such gaso- 
line re ee 


It is further alleged in the bill: 


‘That a part of such gasoline used by the plaintiff is 
purchased by and delivered to the plaintiff in the State of 
Wyoming; that a part thereof is purchased outside of said 
State; and that such gasoline purchased and delivered to 
the plaintiff either in or outside of said State of Wyoming 
is used and consumed by it as fuel for the propulsion of its 


Spel RONDO SAL UM ICS PRY Se COTTA a 


yas 


ro" 
w 
oh | 


said airplaines in its interstate commerce and business as 
aforesaid, and is an instrumentality of interstate com- 
merce.”’ 


[fol. 137] That there has been exacted of it, and it has paid 
said tax amounting to several thousand dollars on gasoline 
so used by appellant in interstate commerce, whether pur- 
chased or delivered to it in the State of Wyoming or else- 
where, under protest, because of threatened criminal and 
civil penalties authorized by the statute for non-payment. 

The statute was first passed in 1923. It levied a tax 
of one cent on each gallon of gasoline sold or used within 
the state. It has been amended at every subsequent session. 
We think it plain that the original act and as amended 
imposes the tax only against wholesalers as that term is 
defined in the original act. Section 1 of the original act 
(Session Laws, Wyoming, 1923, Chapter 73) defined whole- 
salers thus: 


‘¢*Wholesaler’? is hereby defined as any person, firm, or 
corporation who imports or causes to be imported gasoline, 
as herein defined, for sale in the State of Wyoming to the 
jobber or consumer, or to the persons, firms, corporations, 
or associations of persons, who, in turn, sell to the jobber 
or consumer. The term ‘wholesaler’ is further defined to 
mean any person, firm, or corporation who produces, re- 
fines, manufactures, blends, or compounds gasoline in the 
State of Wyoming for use, sale or distribution in this 
State.”’ 


Section 3 required that every wholesaler, as defined in 
the act, who was then engaged or should engage in the sale 
or use of gasoline, should not later than the fifteenth of 
each month render a statement to the State Treasurer show- 
ing the amount of gasoline sold or used in the state during 
the preceding calendar month, and to pay to the State 
Treasurer at the same time the license tax of one cent 
per gallon on all such gasoline. That act also required 
that every wholesaler should keep a record of all purchases, 
receipts, sales, and distribution of gasoline, and that the 
funds received from the license tax by the State Treasurer 
should be used for the maintenance of highways. Section 6 
of the original act made it unlawful for any wholesaler to 


: 
| 


cF6s PANY 


7 RP GE Te ame 
1: . 
e 


sell or offer gasoline for sale while delinquent in the pay- 
ment of the tax or any part thereof. It imposed penalties, 
civil and criminal, for violations of that provision. The 
amount of the tax was thereafter raised at subsequent ses- 
mings until it was four cents per gallon prior to and at the 
tim this suit was brought. 

‘fol. 188] Section 3 of the original act was amended at 
the session of 1927. It did not change the requirement of 
the original act that the wholesaler should pay the tax, 
but that amendment further provided: 


‘*Every person who shall use any gasoline in this state 
upon which the said tax has not been paid by any whole- 
saler in this state, shall, on or before the twenty-fifth day 
of each calendar month * * * render a true statement 
to the State Treasurer duly signed and sworn to, and ac- 
company such statement with the payment of the tax of 
three cents per gallon on all gasoline, as shown by such 
statement to have been used by him.”’ 


OR eR lie nae pele | 


Section 4 of the amendatory act of 1927 required that 
every person or corporation who should have in his posses- 
sion for the purpose of sale, or should sell or offer for 
sale, gasoline for motor vehicles, should display in a con- 
spicuous place a sign showing the price at which said gaso- 
line would be sold and the amount of tax thereon, and that 
neglect in that respeet would constitute a misdemeanor 

; subjecting the offender to fine or imprisonment. 

; At the general session of 1929 the legislature provided 
% that reports to the State Treasurer of all gasoline sold or 
used during the preceding month should be made by whole- 
salers, and that the wholesaler should at the same time 
pay to the State Treasurer a license tax of four cents per 
gallon on all such gasoline. Thereafter at a special session 
in 1929 the legislature again amended section 3 of the origi- 
nal act so that it read thus: 


RP ese are 


“On and after April 1, 1929, each and every wholesaler 
_ as defined in this Act, who is now engaged or who may 
hereafter engage in his own name, or in the name of others, 
or in the name of his representatives or agents in this 
State, in the sale or use of gasoline as herein defined shall 
not later than the fifteenth of each month render to the 


Pitiewesecsay 


ae 


4 
i 
E 
5 
E 
4 


WK 


ie 


DRL Teck be a 


SPLAT EOD 


State Treasurer a statement of all gasoline sold or used 
by them in the State of Wyoming during the preceding 
‘valendar month, and to pay to the State Treasurer at the 
same time, the license tax of four cents per gallon on all 
such gasoline. Said statement to the State Treasurer shall 
be upon blanks furnished by him, and shall be sworn to 
by the owner or managing agent in the case of an indi- 
{fol. 139] vidual, firm or association, by the resident gen- 
eral agent or attorney, in the case of a foreign corporation 
or by one of the principal officers in the case of a domestic 
corporation, Every person, firm or corporation, who shall 
use any gasoline in this State, upon which the said tax 
has not been paid by any wholesaler in this State, shall, 
on or before the 15th day of each calendar month, be- 
vinning with the first calendar month after this Act has 
become effective, render a true statement to the State 
Treasurer, duly signed and sworn to, and accompany such 
statement with the payment of a tax of four cents per 
vallon on all gasoline as shown by such statement to have 
been used by him; provided that before making the dis- 
tribution of funds provided for in Section 1 hereof the 
State Treasurer shall pay over all funds received from 
the gasoline license tax on gasoline used at any municipal 
air field to the city or town where such air field is located, 
to be used for the maintenance and improvement of such 
air field.’? 

The latter half of said section 3, supra, as amended at 
the special session beginning with the words ‘‘ Every per- 
son, firm or corporation, who shall use any gasoline in this 
State, upon which the said tax has not been paid by any 
wholesaler in this State,’’ makes it plain, we think, that 
the tax is primarily imposed against a wholesaler. 

In substance and effect the facts here are not different 
from those in the case of Eastern Air Transport, Ine. v. 
South Carolina Tax Commission, 285 U. S. 147. In that 
case the Transport Company complained that a license tax 
of six cents a gallon, imposed on those who sold gasoline, 
was required to be paid by it for gasoline used in its planes 
in interstate commerce when it purchased the gasoline in 
South Carolina, and that the six cents was a direct burden 
upon interstate commerce. The court said: 


‘eo 
S 

a 
& 
é 


os os 
re 


satel Titi 


ese 


138 


‘‘So far as the present question is concerned, the dis- 
tinction (between an excise tax and a property tax) is not 
important. If such a license tax for the privilege of mak- 
ing sales within the State were regarded as in effect a tax 
upon the goods sold, its validity could not be questioned 
in the circumstances here disclosed, as in that aspect the 
tax would be upon a part of the general mass of property 
within the State and hence subject to the State’s authority 
[fol. 140] to tax, although the property might actually be 
used in interstate commerce. * * * There is no sub- 
stantial distinction between the sale of gasoline that is used 
in an airplane in interstate commerce and the sale of coal 
for the locomotives of an interstate carrier, or of the loco- 
motives and cars themselves bought as equipment for inter- 
state transportation. A non-discriminatory tax upon local 
sales in such cases has never been regarded as imposing 
a direct burden upon interstate commerce and has no 
greater or different effect upon that commerce than a gen- 
eral property tax to which all those enjoying the protection 
of the State may be subjected.’’ 


Appellant in argument and brief puts emphasis on the 
word ‘‘use’’ found in the latter part of section 3, supra, 
and says it is a use tax, and the use was in interstate 
commerce, relying on Helson v. Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245. 
It may be conceded that the forepart of this section im- 
poses a use tax against the wholesaler on that part of 
the gasoline that it consumes; but that is not the tax in- 
volved here. The tax here under consideration is the 
license tax against the wholesaler exacted of him for the 
privilege of carrying on the business of selling gasoline, 
and when appellant made its purchases it had an option 
under the statute of then paying the tax added to the pur- 
chase price, or of assuming its payment and accounting to 
the State Treasurer therefor after it had used the gasoline. 
It chose to do the latter and thus discharged a primary 
obligation of the wholesaler. This case is wholly unlike 
Helson’s case. There the gasoline was purchased in Illinois 
for a ferry boat engaged in interstate commerce, and the 
tax involved was held to be a use tax imposed by a Ken- 
tucky statute on that part of the gas consumed by the ferry 
boat while within Kentucky. The court said, pages 249, 
252: 


eee SET OTR ENS EE 


BS APR 7 


139 


‘‘While a State has power to tax property having a situs 
within its limits, whether employed in interstate commerce 
or not, it cannot interfere with interstate commerce through 
the imposition of tax which is, in effect, a tax for the privi- 
lege of transacting such commerce. * * * The tax is 
exacted as the price of the privilege of using an instru- 
mentality of interstate commerce. It reasonably cannot 
be distinguished from a tax for using a locomotive or a 
‘ar employed in such commerce. A tax laid upon the use 
of the ferry boat, would present an exact parallel.’ 


[fol. 141] So we conclude that appellant’s attack upon the 
Wyoming statute cannot be sustained. 

So far we have had in mind only gasoline purchased in 
Wyoming. The bill alleges that a part of the gasoline 
purchased and used by appellant in its planes in interstate 
commerce was purchased outside of Wyoming. The testi- 
mony on that subject is this: Appellant procures gasoline 
from both inside and outside the State of Wyoming; after 
it is purchased part of it is brought to Cheyenne and part 
to Rock Springs and stored in tanks for use at appellant’s 
direction and subject to any use it wishes to make of it; 
there is one tank at Rock Springs and two at Cheyenne; 
the capacity of one of the tanks at Cheyenne is five thou- 
sand gallons and the other two thousand gallons; appellant 
sells soine gasoline at Cheyenne and at Rock Springs; it 
displays a price sign at each place, stating the price of 
gasoline including the tax; other planes use both of these 
fields, and appellant uses gasoline locally at each field in 
trucks , automobiles, for testing purposes, and washing 
planes; there is no separate receptacle at either field in 
which appellant stores the gasoline which it sells to other 
airships, or buys outside Wyoming; it is all put into the 
storage tanks; there are gauges on the pumps, and a record 
Was kept each time that gasoline was drawn from the tanks; 
the amount used locally by appellant, or sold, is in this 
way kept separately from the amount used by appellant 
in its interstate flights; it likewise measures the gasoline 
put into its planes for interstate commerce use. The record 
does not disclose how much gasoline during the times in 
question was purchased outside the state. On the facts 
stated it must have been mingled in the tanks with gasoline 


nal 


ds PARE RAE TNT RIERA 


2 TET OES 


140 


purchased within the state. Appellant paid the tax on the 
gasoline used by it locally and on that sold to others with- 
out protested payments on all put in its tanks and used 
in interstate flights. Obviously it is impossible to ascertain 
how much gasoline that came from outside of Wyoming 
was thus used in its planes. Moreover, it does not appear 
whether gasoline purchased outside of Wyoming was de- 
livered to appellant in Wyoming or outside the state. 
Judges McDermott and Pollock are agreed however that 
the pleadings and evidence are sufficient to require an 
injunction restraining collection of the tax on gasoline 
obtained by appellant on purchases made outside Wyoming 
and then brought into the state and used in its planes in 
interstate flights. 

[fol. 142] The Wyoming Legislature at its general session 
in 1929 passed another act (Chapter 89) relating to the 
sale and delivery of gasoline. Section 1 of that act requires 
that every person, firm, corporation, association, co-part- 
nership, or common carrier transporting, conveying or 
bringing gasoline into the state of Wyoming for retail or 
wholesale consumption or distribution within the state shall 
furnish to the State Treasurer not later than the 10th of 
each calendar month a verified statement showing the num- 
ber of gallons of gasoline delivered within the State of 
Wyoming during the preceding month, giving the name of 
the person, firm, corporation, association, or co-partnership, 
to whom the same was delivered and the place of delivery. 
It is further provided that: 


‘*Every wholesaler in gasoline and every person, firm, 
corporation, association, co-partnership, or common carrier 
transporting, conveying, or bringing gasoline into the State 
of Wyoming for retail or wholesale consumption or dis- 
tribution within the State of Wyoming, as in this act de- 
fined, shall keep a record of all purchases, receipts, sales, 
and distribution of gasoline.’’ 


It further provided that such record shall at all times 
be subject to inspection by the State Treasurer. A penalty 
is provided for failure to make such report. No data rela- 
tive to the amount of gasoline procured by appellant from 
outside the state required by this act is found in the record. 


141 


It is therefore impossible to even approximate the amount 
of gasoline coming from the outside during the time in 
question or the conditions of purchase and delivery. Con- 
ceding that appellant might make purchase of gasoline out- 
side the state under given circumstances, bring that gasoline 
to Cheyenne and Rock Springs and use it in interstate 
flights and not be subject to account to the State Treasurer 
for the statutory tax on gasoline so used, it is the writer’s 
opinion that the pleadings and facts in this case are too 
meager and indefinite to require and sustain a ruling and 
decree thereon. 

The proviso to said section 3 of this act was put into 
that section at the special session of 1929 after the City 
of Cheyenne had entered into a written contract with ap- 
pellant by which the latter obtained the right for a con- 
sideration to use the city’s airplane field for twenty-five 
years commencing July 1, 1929, in landing, taking off, and 
there putting their planes in condition. The right was not 
fol. 145] exclusive. Other planes could be given and were 
given similar rights. The city had made valuable improve- 
ments, as has appellant, at their respective costs. Appel- 
lant agreed to pay a specified amount in annual rentals, 
and additional costs of named future improvements and 
maintenance and management of the field were to be appor- 
tioned between them in a way stated in the contract. The 
city agreed that appellant should be entitled to the full use 
of the field during the lease on terms as favorable as might 
he granted by the city to other users, and that no charge 
should be exacted from appellant for any use which it might 
make additional to that specified in the contract, and that 
the city would impose no charge of any kind or character 
for materials or other products purchased or otherwise ac- 
quired by appellant for use on the premises leased. Later 
the city authorized a bond issue of $15,000.00 for enlarge- 
ment of the field and for improvements such as grading, 
leveling, fencing, ete. Appellant contends that the proviso 
fo section 3 impairs the obligations of the contract between 
the city and appellant in that it is in violation of Section 
10, Article I of the United States Constitution. The proviso 
reads thus: 


‘‘provided that before making the distribution of funds 
provided for in Section 1 hereof the State Treasurer shall 


FE RP I a ee aS ee ee Ee TE eT Te 
Foe EE he Se SEHD LENE OBESE BIS GIB ERED RIS ARI DAT A a I 


a 
& 
2 
3 
| 
: 


ay 
= 
re 
4 
x 
rd 
RS 


142 


pay over all funds received from the gasoline license tax 
on gasoline used at any municipal air field to the city or 
town where such air field is located, to be used for the 
maintenance and improvement of such air field.’’ 


We are not impressed with this contention. It should be 
said it is made in response to statements of the trial judge 
that the tax on gasoline used at the field and turned over to 
the city pursuant to the proviso might be regarded as com- 
pensation to the city for the facilities it furnished and its 
outlay in maintenance and upkeep of the field. The trial 
judge relied on Sprout v. City of South Bend, 277 U. S. 163, 
and others like it. But it will be seen from what has been 
said we do not rest our conclusion on that ground. The 
obligations of the contract were in no way affected by the 
proviso. It provided a fund with which the city’s obliga- 
tions might be discharged, in part at least, but without it all 
of the tax would have been applied on the State’s highways. 
Appellant was not injured by the change and cannot com- 
plain. Hooker vy. Burr, 194 U.S. 417. 

The District Court denied any relief by injunction and 
[fols. 144-146] dismissed the bill. In so far as the court 
denied the writ prayed for the case will be remanded with 
directions to issue the writ enjoining collection of the tax 
on all gasoline procured by appellant on purchases com- 
pleted outside the State of Wyoming and then brought into 
that state and used in its planes in interstate commerce. 
In all other respects the order of dismissal of the District 
Court is affirmed. The costs on appeal will be divided, each 
party will be adjudged to pay the costs that it or they in- 
curred. 

It is so ordered. 


In Unitep States Crrcuir Court or APPEALS 


Before Honorable Robert E. Lewis and Honorable Orie L. 
Phillips, Circuit Judges 


Drecree—Oct. 20, 1932 


This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the 
record from the District Court of the United States for the 
District of Wyoming and was argued by counsel. 


Wisden OR 


143 


On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered, ad- 
judged and decreed by this court, that the decree of the 
said District Court, in this cause be, and the same is hereby, 
reversed in so far as it denies the writ of injunction prayed 
for; that this cause be and the same is hereby remanded to 
the said District Court with directions to issue the writ en- 
joining the collection of the tax on all gasoline procured by 
appellant on purchases completed outside the State of 
Wyoming and then brought into that state and used in the 
planes of appellant in interstate commerce; that in all other 
respects the decree of the said District Court be and the 
same is hereby affirmed; and that each party hereto pay the 
costs on appeal incurred by it or them. 


Petition for rehearing, covering 3 pages, filed Nov. 10, 
1932, omitted from this print. It was denied and nothing 
more by order of Nov. 25, 1932. 


[fol.147] In Unirep Strares Circurr Court or APPEALS 


Orver Denyine Petition ror REHEARING 


Nov. 25, 1932 


This cause came on to be heard on the petition of ap- 
pellees for a rehearing herein and was submitted to the 
court. 

On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered by the 
court that the said petition be and the same is hereby 
denied. 


In Unirep States Circuir Court or APPEALS 
Petition ror Cuarirication or Decree—Filed Nov. 14, 1932 


Counsel for Boeing Air Transport, Inec., appellant in the 
above entitled cause, respectfully make the following repre- 
sentations as grounds for the clarification of the decree 
indicated by the opinion filed in said cause on October 4, 
1932. 


* 
* 
ol 
2 
ay 
ve 
a 
ra 
3 
2 
= 


in eS 


ne 


eT ee eet ave Perey 
Bisse. SHI Wenhcod a RE 


144 


The decision of this court reverses the decree entered by 
the court below, in part, and directs the issuance of a writ 
of injunction against the exaction of the Wyoming gasoline 
tax with respect to such gasoline as appellant purchases 
outside of the State and brings into the State for use in 
fueling its airplanes in interstate commerce. This part of 
the decision reads as follows: 


‘*The District Court denied any relief by injunction and 
dismissed the bill. Insofar as the court denied the writ 
prayed for the case will be remanded with directions to 
issue the writ enjoining collection of the tax on all gaso- 
line procured by appellant on purchases completed outside 
the State of Wyoming and then brought into that state and 
used in its planes in interstate commerce. In all other 
respects the order of dismissal of the District Court is 
affirmed.”’ 


Earlier in the opinion, it is said: 


orp 


he record does not disclose how much gasoline during 
the times in question was purchased outside the state. On 
the facts stated it must have been mingled in the tanks with 
gasoline purchased within the state. Appellant paid the 
[fol. 148] tax on the gasoline used by it locally and on that 
sold to others without protested payments on all put in its 
tanks and used in interstate flights. Obviously it is impos- 
sible to ascertain how much gasoline that came from out- 
side of Wyoming was thus used in its planes. Moreover, it 
does not appear whether gasoline purchased outside of 
Wyoming was delivered to appellant in Wyoming or out- 
side the state. Judges McDermott and Pollock are agreed, 
however, that the pleadings and evidence are sufficient to 
require an injunction restraining collection of the tax on 
gasoline obtained by appellant on purchases made outside 
Wyoming and then brought into the state and used in its 
planes in interstate flights.’’ 


We are in doubt as to whether or not the qualified rever- 
sal of the decree forecloses appellant’s right to make proof 
and recover in the court below such taxes as were paid 
under protest upon gasoline purchased outside of the State 
of Wyoming and used in fueling its airplanes in interstate 
commerce, 


LP Lea 


145 


It is true the record before the court does not show any 
segregation of the taxes paid under protest with respect to 
those paid on gasoline used in interstate commerce but pur- 
chased outside the State of Wyoming and those paid on 
gasoline within the State of Wyoming. It does not follow 
that such segregation cannot be made. 

The court has assumed that during the entire period dur- 
ing which appellant made tax payments under protest, 
which tax payments appellant seeks to recover in this 
action, gasoline purchased within the State of Wyoming 
was mingled with gasoline purchased without the State of 
Wyoming. Although it does not appear in the record, in 
view of this assumption of the court, appellant feels that it 
is permissible to say that during the entire year 1930 all of 
the gasoline used or sold by appellant in Wyoming was 
purchased by the appellant outside of the State ef Wyo- 
ming and thereafter imported by appellant into that state. 
Consequently, appellant is in a position to make definite 
proof that taxes in excess of $10,000 were paid by appellant 
on gasoline purchased by appellant outside of Wyoming 
and thereafter used by it in propelling its planes in inter- 
stale commerce. 

The bill of complaint contains a prayer for other and 
[fol. 149] further relief. Under the principle announced 
in The Salton Sea Cases, 172 Fed. 792, certiorari denied 
215 U.S. 604, this prayer is sufficient to support a decree 
awarding recovery of such taxes as were paid under protest 
with respect to gasoline purchased outside of the State of 
Wyoming and used by appellant in said state solely in fuel- 
ing its airplanes in interstate commerce, which taxes this 
court now holds have been unlawfully exacted. 

This court has granted to the appellant some relief— 
namely, an injunction against the collection of the tax on 
gasoline purchased outside of the State of Wyoming and 
used in said state in fueling appellant’s airplanes in inter- 
state commerce. Where injunctive relief is given by the 
appellate court, but the record before that court is not suffi- 
cient to determine the extent of the monetary relief which 
follow the injunctive relief, the proper practice is for the 
appellate court to remand the case to the trial court with 
instructions to take testimony for the purpose of determin- 


10—9571 


see Pr ERRERCeN in | 


Seach a Palit 


Mt A eT 


146 


ing the monetary award to which the successful party is 
entitled. This is the practice followed by the Supreme 
Court and we submit should be followed by this court in 
this case. 


Dowagiae Mfg. Co. vs. Minnesota Moline Plow Co., 
235 U.S. 641. 
Hassal vs. Wilcox, 130 U.S. 493. 


We accordingly ask that the decision of the court be clari- 
fied by specifically recognizing appellant’s right to apply 
to the lower court for the recovery of such taxes as have 
been paid by it under protest with respect to gasoline pur- 
chased outside the State of Wyoming and used in fueling 
its airplanes in interstate commerce. 


Respectfully submitted, John W. Lacey, Lacey & 
Loomis, Cheyenne, Wyoming. William M. Allen, 
Eugene C. Luccock, Todd, Holman & Sprague, 
Seattle, Washington, Attorneys for Appellant. 


[fol. 150] Certificate of Counsel Required by Rule 25 


The undersigned counsel for the appellant in the above 
entitled case hereby certify that the foregoing Petition for 
Clarification of the Decree of the court in the above entitled 
case is in their judgment well-founded and that the same 
is not interposed for delay. 

William M. Allen, Eugene C. Luecock. 


[File endorsement omitted. ] 


Ix Unrrep Srates Cirevrr Court or APPEALS 


Orver Denyina Peririon ror CLAriFicaTION or DecrEE— 
Nov. 25, 1932 


This cause came on to be heard on the petition of appel- 
lant for a clarification of the decree herein and was sub- 
mitted to the court. 

On consideration whereof, it is now here ordered by the 
court that the said petition be and the same is hereby 
denied. 


<r 


PESTS OF 


PE oe! Les 


147 
In Untrep Stares Cirevir Courr or APPEALS 


Motion ror Stay or Manvare—Filed Dee. 5, 1932 
Come now, the above named appellees, William H. Edel- 
man, State Treasurer; Harry R. Weston, State Treasurer; 
The City of Cheyenne, a municipal corporation; and The 
City of Rock Springs, a municipal corporation, and move 
the court for a stay of mandate, or other process therein 
for a period of thirty (30) days in order to afford time to 
said appellees to prepare and present their application for 
an appeal of said cause to the Supreme Court of the United 
States. 
[fol. 151] And appellees hereby certify that the foregoing 
motion for stay of mandate is presented in good faith and 
not for delay. 
James A. Greenwood, Attorney General of Wyoming. 
Richard J. Jackson, Deputy Attorney General. 
George W. Ferguson, Asst. Attorney General. R. 
Dwight Wallace, Asst. Attorney General. Harry 
B. Henderson, Jr. by G. W. F., Attorney for the 
City of Cheyenne, Wyo. T.S. Taliaferro, Jr., by 
G. W. F., Attorney for the City of Rock Springs, 
Wyo. 


| File endorsement omitted. | 


In Unrrep Srares Cinevir Court or Appra.s 
Orver Staying Manpatre—Dee. 5, 1932 


This cause came on to be heard on the motion of appellees 
for a stay of the mandate herein and was submitted to the 
court. 

On consideration whereo!. it is now here ordered by the 
court that no mandate of this court issue herein for a period 
of thirty days from this day, and that, if within said period 
of thirty days there is filed with the clerk of this court a 
certificate of the clerk of the Supreme Court of the United 
States that a petition for writ of certiorari, record and 
brief have been filed, with proof of service thereef under 
Section 3 of Rule 38 of the Supreme Court, the stay hereby 
granted shall continue until the final disposition of the case 
by the Supreme Court. 


E 
e 
5 
8 
E 


Pe NES 


saa Rake. 


Niels Sey aaa 


4 


ahh 


OSes 


oy, 


RANT ROE RL AIRED I REEF PLIES REAPS. 


148 


[fol. 152] Clerk’s Certificate to foregoing transcript omit- 
ted in printing. 


[fol. 153] Supreme Court or THE UNITED States 
Orver ALLowine Certiorari—Filed February 6, 1933 


The petition herein for a writ of certiorari to the United 
States Cireuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Cireuit is 
granted. And it is further ordered that the duly certified 
copy of the transcript of the proceedings below which ac- 
companied the petition shall be treated as though filed in 
response to such writ. 


Endorsed on cover: File No. 37,268. U.S. Cireuit Court 
of Appeals, Tenth Cireuit. Term No, 571. William H. 
Ndelman, State Treasurer, Harry R. Weston, State Treas- 
urer, The City of Cheyenne, et al., Petitioners, vs. Boeing 
Air Transport, Ine. Petition for a writ of certiorari and 
exhibit thereto. Filed December 27, 1932. File No. 37,268. 


(3023) 


Subject of Index 


Petition for a Writ of Certiorari...........................00..c0..00000-----........ 
NS NA SETS ELE saa ll a 


EE gg OS are eee ep 


tiorari 
Prayer for the Writ. 


Brief in Support of Petition for Writ. of Certiorari. 
I The Opinions of the Courts Below... 
Il Jurisdiction —......... a 
III Statement of the Case ea ETS 
IV Specification of Error a ae 
V Argument 
A Statutes of the Siate Involved... 
B Tax Legal on Instrumentalities of Interstate Com- 
EE api ARR ne i Selene ny Sse ea 
C No Distinction Between Property and Excise Tax. 


Conclusion 


Table of Cases Cited 


American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U.S. 500, 520 
Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U.S. 642, yore 649. 
Bradford Electric Light Co. v. Clapper, 284 U. 8. 221 
Breece Lumber Co.,, et al. v. Mirabal. 34 N. Mex. 643 
Brown v. Houston, 114 U.S. 622. 632-634 

Burke v. Bass, et al., 242 N. W. 606 (Neb.) 
Cleveland, C. C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Backus. 154 U.S. 439 


Eastern Air Transport v. S. Car. Tax C om., 285 U.S. 147, 152-153 
Helson v, Commonwealth of Ky.. 279 U.S. 245 ee 

Foster &C reighton Co. v, Graham. et al., 154 Tenn. 412 2. 

Gregg Dyeing Co. vy. Query, et al., 286 U. S. 472.. 


Hart Refineries v. Harmon, 278 U.S. 499, 501-502 

Jerome IT. Sheip Co. v. Amos, 130 So. 699 (Fla.) 

Magnum Import Co., Inc. v. Coty, 262 U.S. 159 

May v. New Orleans, 178 U.S. 496, 509-510...... 

Public Service C om. V. rier Tel. Co., 284 U.S. 6 

Smith v. Wilson, 273 U. 388, 391 ; 
Sonneborn Brothers vy. Kee ling . etal, 262 U.S. 506, 508-509 
Texas Company v. Brown, 258 U.S. 466, a5. 


Table of Statutes Cited 
Act of February 13, 1925, (a) See. 240... 
Wyoming Revised Statutes, 1931, Sec. 115-1102 
Wyoming Revised Statutes, 1931, Sec. 115-1103 Sctecboaten eee 
Wyoming Revised Statutes, 1931, Chapter 115, Appendix 


rate 


3 Opinion of the Court and Final Decree. 


D Reason Relied on for the Allowance of the Writ of Cer- 


ei, | 


Supreme Court of the United States 
October Term, 1932 


WILLIAM H. EDELMAN, State Treasurer ; 
HARRY R. WESTON, State Treasurer; 
THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, a municipal 
corporation; and THE CITY OF ROCK 
SPRINGS, a municipal corporation, 
Petitioners, 


VS. 

BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., a cor- 
poration, 

Respondent. 


Petition for Writ of Certiorari 
To the Honorable The Supreme Court of the United States: 


The petition of William H. Edelman, State Treasurer: 
Harry R. Weston, State Treasurer: The City of Cheyenne, a 
municipal corporation; and The City of Rock Springs, a mu- 
nicipal corporation, respectfully shows to this Honorable 
Court: 


A 
Issues in the Case 


1. On the 25th day of November, 1930, the respondent, 
Boeing Air Transport, Inc., a corporation of the State of 
Washington, filed in the United States District Court for the 
District of Wyoming, its Bill of Complaint against your peti- 
tioners, residents of the State of Wyoming, in which said Bill 
is sought relief permanently enjoining and restraining peti- 
tioners from collecting a license, or excise, tax of four cents 
per gallon on all gasoline held and owned by it in the State of 
Wyoming and used as fuel in propelling its airplanes in the 
transportation of passengers, express, and United States mail 
in interstate commerce. 


OLE MEET AERP SM 


2 


2. The grounds for the relief sought are that the statutes 
of the State of Wyoming by virtue of which the tax had been 
collected from respondent are unconstitutional and in viola- 
tion of Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article I of the Constitution 
of the United States, the commerce clause of the Federal Con- 
stitution, and that the tax is on the use of gasoline in inter- 
state commerce, and thus an illegal interference with com- 
merce among the states. 

3. It is alleged that, by reason of the severe provisions and 
- penalties of the statutes, irreparable loss and damages would 
E result to respondent unless it should be granted equitable re- 
; 


lief. 

4. The alleged illegal tax had been paid by respondent, un- 
der protest, and the amount thereof is alleged to be in excess 
of $10,000.00, in the original and supplemental bills. 

5. It is alleged that the gasoline of respondent on which 
the tax had been paid had been purchased by respondent part- 
ly within and partly outside the State of Wyoming. 

6. The prayer of the Bill is in the usual terms for a perma- 
nent injunction, and for, to quote therefrom, ‘‘such other and 
further relief as the equity and justice of the case may require 
and which the Court may deem meet and just, whether spe- 
cifically prayed for herein or not’? (R. 1 and 44). 

7. Petitioners answered, relying upon the legality of the 
statutes under which the tax had been collected, and asserting 
that the tax was not an illegal interference with, or regulation 
of, commerce among the states (R. 13, 17 and 30). 


SI MOOPRS RST I 


B 
Opinion of the Court, and Final Decree 


The matter of the issuance of an interlocutory injunction 
was not pressed, no such injunction was issued, and the action 
was tried by a single District Judge. 

On trial on the merits, the findings of fact (R. 47), conelu- 
sions of law (R. 59), and decree (R. 60) of the District Court 
were in favor of petitioners, the injunction was denied, and 
the case was ordered dismissed at costs of respondent. 

In due time the respondent appealed the case to the United 
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, which 
~ Court, in its opinion, ordered the case remanded with direc- 
— tions to issue the writ enjoining collection of the tax on all 


C= BUST Le EE ER PET LIS 


gasoline procured by respondent on purchases completed out- 
side the State of Wyoming and then brought into the State 
and used in its planes in interstate commerce, but in all other 
respects affirmed the order of dismissal of the District Court. 
However, the Senior Circuit Judge was of the opinion that 
the pleadings and facts in the case were too meager and in- — 
definite to require and sustain a ruling and decree thereon. 
The opinion of the Cireuit Court of Appeals is reported 
in 61 Fed. (2d) 319, Advance Sheets No. 5, November 
98, 1932 (R. /ZH ). Decree was entered on October 20, 1932, 
remanding the cause to the Trial Court with directions to issue 
the writ of injunction enjoining petitioners from collecting the 
tax of four cents per gallon on all gasoline procured by re- 
spondent on purchases of gasoline completed outside the State 
of Wyoming and then brought into said State and used in pro- 
pelling its airplanes in interstate commerce (R. /4YA/_ ). 

In due time petitioners filed in the Circuit Court of Appeals 
their petition, and supporting brief, for a rehearing, which was 
denied by the Court on November 25, 1932 (R./47_ ). 

In due time respondent filed in the Circuit Court of Appeals 
its petition for clarification of decree, which was denied by the 
Court on November 25, 1982 (R./37 ). 


AEE ALES teat | 


C 
Statement of Facts 


And your petitioners respectfully show that the facts of the 
matter involved and on which the United States Cireuit Court 
of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit rendered its decree directing 
the issuance of the writ of injunction against the collection of 
such tax by petitioners are, in the language of that Court, Page 
322, the following: 

‘‘Appellant procures gasoline from both inside and 
outside the State of Wyoming; after it is purchased part 
of it is brought to Cheyenne and part to Rock Springs and 
stored in tanks for use at appellant’s direction and sub- 
ject to any use it wishes to make of it; there is one tank 
at Rock Springs and two at Cheyenne; the capacity of one 
of the tanks at Cheyenne is five thousand gallons and the 
other two thousand gallons; appellant sells some gasoline 
at Cheyenne and at Rock Springs; it displays a price sign 
at each place, stating the price of gasoline including the 


| 


= 


4 


tax; other planes use both of these fields, and appellant 
uses gasoline locally at each field in trucks, automobiles, 
for testing purposes, and washing planes; there is no sep- 
arate receptacle at either field in which appellant stores 
the gasoline which it sells to other airships, or buys out- 
side Wyoming; it is all put into the storage tanks; there 
are gauges on the pumps, and a record was kept each time 
that gasoline was drawn from the tanks; the amount used 
locally by appellant, or sold, is in this way kept separately 
from the amount used by appellant in its interstate flights ; 
it likewise measures the gasoline put into its planes for 
interstate commerce use. The record does not disclose 
how much gasoline during the times in question was pur- 
chased outside the state. On the facts stated it must have 
been mingled in the tanks with gasoline purchased within 
the state. Appellant paid the tax on the gasoline used by 
it locally and on that sold to others without protested pay- 
ments on all put in its tanks and used in interstate flights. 
Obviously it is impossible to ascertain how much gasoline 
that came from outside of Wyoming was thus used in its 
planes. Moreover, it does not appear whether gasoline 
purchased outside of Wyoming was delivered to appellant 
in Wyoming or outside the State.”’ 


In addition, the undisputed testimony was that no excise, or 
license, tax had been paid on any of such gasoline procured 
by respondent on purchases outside the State of Wyoming 
(R. 104). 


D 
Reason Relied on for the Allowance of the Writ 
of Certiorari 


Your petitioners are advised and so believe, that under the 
= facts and the law of this case the decree of the United States 
‘+ Cireuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Cireuit, reversing the 
> decree of the District Court, wherein and to the extent that 
it remanded said cause to the Trial Court with directions to 
issue the writ of injunction enjoining petitioners from exact- 
ing and collecting the tax of four cents per gallon on all gaso- 
line procured by respondent on purchases of gasoline com- 
pleted outside the State of Wyoming and then brought into 
said State and used by it in propelling its airplanes in inter- 


POURS GEM AES AEE TES IP ELE SOLE PO PO 


; 5 


| state commerce is erroneous and in violation of the rules, de- — 
| cisions and principles of law as laid down by this Honorable 
| Court, and that this Honorable Court should require said case 
to be certified to it for its review and determination under and ~ 
in accordance with the provisions of the Acts of Congress in — 
such cases made and provided for the following reasons: 

1. Because all gasoline procured and purchased by re- 
spondent outside the State of Wyoming, prior to its use and 
consumption by respondent in propelling its airplanes in the 
transportation of passengers, express, and United States mail — 
in interstate commerce, attains a legal situs within the State 
of Wyoming for taxation, and the tax is legal and enforceable 
under the Constitution of the United States and the Constitu- 
tion and statutes of the State of Wyoming. 

2 Beeause the said tax on all such gasoline, as enforced 
and colleeted by petitioners in the State of Wyoming is a uni- 
form, non-diseriminatory license tax on all dealers and con- 
sumers of gasoline within the State, when it has attained a 
situs therein subject to the tax laws of the State, and is not a 
tax on the use of gasoline in interstate commerce. 

“ Because the said tax on all such gasoline is not an inter- 
ference with, or regulation of, interstate commerce among the 
states, and is not in violation of Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article 
| of the Constitution of the United States. 

4. Beeause the statutes of the State of Wyoming under 
attack provide for the exaetion and collection of the said tax 
of four cents per gallon on all gasoline procured by respondent 
on purchases completed outside the State of Wyoming and 
used in propelling its airplanes in interstate commerce, and 
said statutes are valid and legal, and are not in violation of 
the Constitution of the United States. 


SS Rete 


AE A Te 
iy aia 


+ 


eta 


£ 


RRR eertes eo ee 


td tN BY. 


Brief Accompanying Petition 


Your petitioners append hereto their brief in support of 
this petition, in which each and all of the foregoing matters 
are more fully set forth and discussed. 


WHEREFORE, your petitioners respectfully pray that a 
writ of certiorari be issued out of and under the seal of this 
Honorable Court, directed to the United States Cireuit Court 
of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, commanding that Court to 
certify and to send to this Honorable Court for its review and 
determination, on a day certain to be therein named, a full and 
complete transcript of the record and all proceedings in the 
case numbered and entitled on its docket, No. 578, Boeing Air 
Transport, Inc., a corporation, Appellant vs. William H. Edel- 
man, State Treasurer, Harry R. Weston, State Treasurer; 
The City of Cheyenne, a municipal corporation; and The City 
of Rock Springs, a municipal corporation, Appellees; and that 
the said decree, remanding the case with instructions to issue 
the writ of injunction, of the United States Circuit Court of 
Appeals for the Tenth Circuit may be reversed by this Honor- 

able Court; and that vour petitioners may have such other and 

further relicf in the premises as to this Honorable Court may 

seem meet and just; and your petitioners will ever pray. 


WiiuamM H. Epetman, 
State Treasurer. 
Harry R. Weston, 
State Treasurer. 
THe Crry or CHEYENNE, 
A Municipal Corporation. 
THe Crry or Rock Sprines, 
A Municipal Corporation. 


PETITIONERS. 


By James A. GRreENWoop, 
Attorney General of the 
State of Wyoming. 


Supreme Court of the United States 
October Term, 1932 


WILLIAM H. EDELMAN, State Treasurer ; 
HARRY R. WESTON, State Treasurer; 
THE CULY OF CHEYENNE, a municipal 
corporation; and THE CITY OF ROCK 
SPRINGS, a municipal corporation, 
Petitioners, 
VS. 
BOKING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., a Cor- 
poration, 
Respondent. 


Brief in Support of Petition for Writ of Certiorari 


L. 
The Opinions of the Courts Below 


The opinion of the District Court is reported in 51 Fed. (2d) 
130, Boeing Air Transport, Ine. vs. Edelman, State Treas- 
urer, et al., and is at page 118 of the Record. 

The opinion of the United States Cireuit Court of Appeals 
for the Tenth Circuit is reported in 61 Fed. (2d) 319, Boeing 
Air Transport, Ine. vs. Edelman, State Treasurer, et al., and 
is at page /3H of the Record. 


Il. 
Jurisdiction 


1. Paragraph (a) of Section 240, Act of February 15, 1925, 
Chapter 229, 43 Statutes at Large 936 (U.S. Code, Title 28, 
Section 347 (b)) is as follows: 

‘*Tn any ease, civil or criminal, in a cireuit court of ap- 
peals, or in the Court of Appeals of the District of Colum- 
bia, it shall be competent for the Supreme Court of the 
United States, upon the petition of any party thereto, 
whether government or other litigant, to require by 
certiorari, either before or after a Judgment or decree by 


such lower court, that the cause be certified to the Su- 
preme Court for determination by it with the same power 
and authority, and with like effect, as if the cause had been 
brought there by unrestricted writ of error or appeal.’’ 


2. The date of the decree to be reviewed is October 20, 1932 
(R. /44 ). The petition for rehearing was denied Novem- 
ber 25, 1932 (R. /Y ). 

3. The parties ar€é citizens of different states and the mat- 
ter in controversy exceeds in value the jurisdictional amount. 

The action is in equity in which respondent, Boeing Air 
Transport, Inc., a corporation, seeks to permanently enjoin the 
State Treasurer of the State of Wyoming from collecting an 
excise tax of four cents per gallon on all gasoline held and 
owned by it in the State of Wyoming and used as fuel in pro- 
pelling its airplanes in the business of interstate ecommerce, 
no tax having been previously paid thereon, a part of such 
gasoline having been purchased within the State of Wyoming 
and a part thereof having been purchased outside the State, 
but all thereof stored before its use in respondent’s storage 
tanks at the cities of Cheyenne and Rock Springs in said 
State, and thereafter withdrawn from such tanks and con- 
sumed as fuel in propelling respondent’s airplanes in the busi- 
ness of interstate commerce. 

The tax is collected on or before the 15th of the months fol- 
lowing its use. 

The ground on which respondent relies for injunctive relief 
against the collection of the tax is that the statutes of the 
State of Wyoming, providing for the payment of such tax, are 
in violation of Clause 3 of Section 8 of Article I of the Con- 
stitution of the United States, and is an illegal interference 
with commerce among the states. 

The opinion of the United States Cireuit Court of Appeals 
for the Tenth Cireuit sustains the tax as legal on all such 
gasoline procured by respondent on purehases within the 
~ State of W voming and holds the tax to be illegal on all sueh 
gasoline procured by respondent on purchases outside the 
State of Wyoming and then brought into said state and used 
in propelling its airplanes in interstate commerce. 

The decree of the United States Cireuit Court of Appeals 
for the Tenth Cireuit remands the cause to the Lower Court, 
with directions to issue the writ of injunction prayed for, en- 
» joining collection of the tax of four cents per gallon on all gas- 


; RO ar ee aN EIST ee eT ROR ee 
as i“ we ere SyGRRi es Ca Aon a AD 


ES 


ALE A ee TTD 
i 


A aaa 


9 


vline procured by respondent on purchases completed outside 
the State of Wyoming and then brought into said State and 
used in its airplanes in propelling them in interstate com- 
merce. 
4. The following decisions of this Court are believed to 

sustain jurisdiction of this appeal: 

Bradford Electric Light Co. v. Clapper, 284 U. S. 221; 

Public Service Commission, et al. v. Batesville Tele- 

phone Co., 284 U.S. 6; 
Smith v. Wilson, 273 U. S. 388, 391; 
Magnum Import Co., Inc. v. Coty, 262 U. S. 159. 


IIL. 
Statement of the Case 


Statement of the case and of the matters involved are suf- 
ficiently set forth under A and C in the Petition, in connee- 
tion with the foregoing subdivision 3, therefore, for the sake 
of brevity these statements are not repeated at this point. 


IV. 
Specification of Error 


The United States Cireuit Court oi Appeals for the 
Tenth Cireuit erred in its deeree in finding and holding 
therein and to the extent that it remanded said cause to the 
District Court with directions to issue the writ of injunction 
enjoining petitioners from exacting and collecting the tax of 
four cents per gallon on all gasoline procured by respondent 
ou purchases of gasoline completed outside the State of Wyo- 
ming and then brought into said State and used by it in pro- 
pelling its airplanes in interstate commerce for the following 
reasons: 

(a) Because all gasoline procured and purchased by re- 
spondent outside the State of Wyoming, and used in propelling 
its airplanes in the transportation of passengers, express, and 
United States mail in interstate commerce, before its use and 
consumption was stored by respondent in its tanks within the 
State of Wyoming, and thus had attained a legal situs within 
the State of Wyoming for taxation, and the tax is legal and 


SAARC ANE ETT TESS RE wie — 


10 


enforceable under the Constitution of the United States and 
the Constitution and statutes of the State of Wyoming. 

(b) Because the said tax on all such gasoline, as enforced 
and collected by petitioners in the State of Wyoming is a uni- 
form, non-discriminatory license tax on all dealers and con- 
sumers of gasoline within the State, when it has attained a 


~ situs therein subject to the tax laws of the State, and is not a 
tax on the use of gasoline in interstate commerce. 

a (c) Beeause the said tax on all such gasoline is not an 
s interference with, or regulation of, interstate commerce among 
the states, and is not in violation of Clause 3 of Section 8 of 
~ Article I of the Constitution of the United States. 

4a (d) Because the statutes of the State of Wyoming provide 
for the exaction and collection of the said tax of four cents 
‘per gallon on all gasoline procured by respondent on purchases 
completed outside the State of Wyoming and used in propel- 
ling its airplanes in inte: state commere®, and said statutes are 
~ valid and legal, and are not in violation of the Constitution of 
3 the United States. 

# 

: v 

‘ Argument 

é THE STATUTES OF WYOMING LEVY A LICENSE 


TAX OF FOUR CENTS PER GALLON ON ALL GASO- 
LINE USED OR SOLD FOR DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION, 
AFTER ITS STORAGE IN THE STATE, AND DO NOT 
TAX THE USE OF GASOLINE AS A MEANS BY WHICH 
INTERSTATE COMMERCE IS EFFECTED. 


The statutes of the State of Wyoming under which the pe- 
titioner, State Treasurer, is collecting and enforcing the tax 
of four cents per gallon on the gasoline of respondent, are 
found in Article 11 of Chapter 115, Wyoming Revised Statutes, 
1931, page 1862, and are set forth in full as an appendix to this 
brief. 

We direct particular attention to the following provisions 
thereof: 

**715-1102. Amount of tax. A license tax of four cente 
per gallon is hereby levied on all gasoline used or sold 
in this state for domestic consumption to be collected as 
hereinafter set forth.”’ 


BN 
as 
H 
$y 
ae 
@ 
at 
et 
2 
ae 
Bs 
% 
2 
ae, 
aS 
= 
4 
@ 
we 
oe 


= 
co 
= 
a 
i 
y 


LILLE NAS EE TTD 


aaa HTeAERIS 
11 


**115-1105. Payment of tax. * * * Every person, firm or 
corporation, who shall use any gasoline in this state upon 
which the said tax has not been paid by any wholesaler in 
this state, shall, on or before the 15th day of each calendar 
month, render a true statement to the state treasurer, duly 
signed and sworn to, and accompany such statement with 
the payment of a tax of four cents per gallon on all gaso- 
line as shown by such statement to have been used by 
him: * & #99 


The statute of 1923 taxed gasoline sold for domestic con- 
sumption. The word ‘‘used’’ was added in 1925 and the two 
words, ‘‘used’’ and ‘‘sold’’, have uniformly appeared there- 
after. 

As there has been no attempt to construe the statute as per- 
mitting the taxing of gasoline placed in appellant’s planes in 
an adjoining state and used or consumed while passing 
through Wyoming, but solely as permitting the taxation of 
gasoline stored by appellant in its tanks and thereafter placed 
in its planes within the state, under well established prin- 
ciples of construction followed by this Court, this construction 
will he adopted and followed. 

As no attempt is being made by the taxing authorities to 
tax gasoline placed in planes or vehicles of transportation 
without the state, it may be assumed that the word ‘‘used’’ 
was added to the statute for the purpose of making it uni- 
form and to prevent its evasion rather than for the purpose of 
adding new sources of revenue. No doubt, the intention of 
the legislators of 1923 was to levy a tax on all gasoline which 
had attained a fixed situs within the state for the purpose of 
domestic consumption, by levying the same on all gasoline 
sold therein, but knowing the possibility of its evasion as well 
as desiring to place all domestic consumers on an absolutely 
equal basis, the word ‘‘used’’ was added by the succeeding 
legislature, and is to be construed as synonomous with sale. 

We thus are dealing with a statute, as interpreted and eon- 
strued, which levies a tax of four cents per gallon on all gaso- 
line, which has aequired a fixed situs within the State of Wyo- 
ming and is thereafter and within the State sold to a domestic 
cousumer or placed by a domestic consumer in his machine 
for use therein. A single tax on all gasoline for domestie con- 
sumption, whether sold or used, not a tax on the sale and 
another on the use. 


a 
4 


B 

INSTRUMENTALITIES USED ININTERSTATE 

COMMERCE, UNDER THE DECISIONS OF THIS 

COURT, ARE SUBJECT TO EITHER A PROPERTY, OR 

LICENSE TAX BY A STATE, THE SAME AS OTHER 
PROPERTY, ALL HAVING A SITUS THERKIN. 


‘*It has been again and again said by this court that 
while no state could impose any tax or burden upon the 
privilege of doing the business of interstate commerce, 
yet it had the unquestioned right to place a property tax 
on the instrumentalities engaged in such commerce.”’ 
Cleveland, C. C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 439, 
445. 

‘*While a state has power to tax property having a situs 
within its limits, whether employed in interstate com- 
merce or not, it cannot interfere with interstate commerce 
through the imposition of a tax which is, in effect, a tax 
for the privilege of transacting such commerce.’’ Helson ; 
v. Commonwealth of Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245, 249. ; 

‘‘The appellant emphasizes the fact that the tax has 
been construed by the Supreme Court of the State to be 
an excise tax and not a property tax. Gregg Dyeing Co. 
v. Query, Supreme Court of South Carolina, decided April 
13, 1931, S.C. , 164 S. KE. 588. So far as the pres- ; 
ent question is concerned, the distinction is not important. 
If such a license tax for the privilege of making sales with- 
in the State were regarded as in effect a tax upon the 
goods sold, its validity could not be questioned in the cir- 
cumstances here disclosed, as in that aspect the tax would 
be upon a part of the general mass of property within the 
State and hence subject to the State’s authority to tax, 
although the property might actually be used in interstate 
commerce. ‘It is elementary,’ said the Court in New Jer- 
sey Bell Teleph. Co. v. State Bd. of Taxes & Assessments, 
280 U.S. 338, 346, 74 L. Ed. 468, 467, 50S. Ct. 111, ‘that 
a State may tax property used to carry on interstate com- 
merce.’ Treating the tax as an excise tax upon the sales 
does not change the result in the instant case, as the sales 
are still purely intrastate transactions. Superior Oil Co. 
v. Mississippi, 280 U. S. 390, 395, 74 L. Ed. 504, 507, 50 
S. Ct. 169. Undoubtedly, purchases of goods within a 
State may form part of transactions in interstate com- 


Ao IO LAF AE Oe 


GEA IYE LAM ARS 


EE PRR ION 


Pe RS 


RTS SRA EAA EEL ATER Pe ARIE 


13 


merce and hence be entitled to enjoy a corresponding im- 
munity. But the mere purchase of supplies or equipment 
for use in conducting a business which constitutes inter- 
state commerce is not so identified with that commerce as 
to make the sale immune from a non-discriminatory tax 
imposed by the State upon intrastate dealers. There is no 


substantial distinction between the sale of gasoline that 3 
is used in an airplane in interstate transportation and the | 


sale of coal for the locomotives of an interstate carrier, 
or of the locomotives and cars themselves bought as equip- 
ment for interstate transportation. A non-discriminatory 
tax upon local sales in such cases has never been regarded 
as imposing a direct burden upon interstate commerce and 
has no greater or different effect upon that ecommerce 
than a general property tax to which all those enjoying 
the protection of the State may be subjected.’’ Eastern 
Air Transport, Inc. v. South Carolina Tax Commission, 
et al., 285 U.S. 147, 152, 153. 


Cc 

PROPERTY ACQUIRED BY PURCHASE IN AN- 
OTHER STATE THAN THAT IN WHICH IT IS USED, 
WHENEVER IT BECOMES A PART OF THE GENERAL 
MASS OF THE PROPERTY OF THE STATE OF ITS 
USK, BY DELIVERY AND STORAGE THEREIN, BE- 
COMES SUBJECT TO THE TAXATION LAWS OF THE 
STATE OF ITS USE AND SITUS, REGARDLESS OF 
THE CLASS OF THE TAX OR THE USE THEREAFTER 
OF THE PROPERTY. 


The tax was sustained by the Cireuit Court of Appeals on 
all gasoline of respondent procured by it on purchases within 
the State. 

Gasoline of respondent procured on purchases outside the 
State, having thereafter been stored by it in its storage tanks 
within the State, was thereafter withdrawn, as and when 
needed, placed in its airplanes, and used and consumed in pro- 
pelling its airplanes in interstate commerce. We think a li- 
cense tax on all such gasoline is equally not open to attack as 
an interference with commerce among the states. 

We can conceive of no difference between the two, so far as 
respondent’s objection thereto is concerned. Neither is a tax 


, 
es 
aN 
eS 
' 
a 
os 
eR 
? 
te 
& 
ca 
Bi 
e 


| 


UPASIEE fn EAP LI SEER 


14 


on the use of gasoline in interstate commerce, nor a tax ‘‘ex- 
acted as the price of the privilege of using an instrumentality 
of interstate commerce.’’ 

Whenever the subjects of interstate commerce cease longer 
to be in transportation between the states, that is, as repeated- 
ly said by this Court, ‘‘come to rest’’ within a state, the sub- 
jects of such commerce then become a part of the mass of the 
property of that state, subject to its laws, and attain a situs, 
subject to taxation within that state. 

‘“That with respect to such substances when they have 
passed out of interstate commerce and have come to rest 
within the state and become a part of the general mass 
of property or have become the subject of domestic com- 
merce, the state may impose inspection fees substantially 
in excess of the cost of inspection, and thus make them 
a source of general revenue, is also free from doubt, other 
than any which may arise from its own constitution.’’ 
Texas Co. v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466, 475, 66 L. Ed. 721. 

**Qur conclusion must depend on the answer to the ques- 
tion: Is this a regulation of, or a burden upon, interstate 
commerce? We think it is neither. The oil had come to 
a state of rest in the warehouse of the appellants, and had 
become a part of their stock, with which they proposed to 
do business as wholesale dealers in the state. The inter- 
state transportation was at an end, and whether in the 
original package or not, a state tax upon the oil as prop- 
erty, or upon its sale in the state, if the state law levied 
the same tax on all oil or all sales of it, without regard to 
origin, would be neither a regulation nor a burden of 
the interstate commerce of which this oil had been the 
subject.’’ Sonneborn Brothers v. Keeling, et al., 262 U.S. 
506, 508, 509, 67 L. Ed. 1095. 

‘Interstate transportation having ended, the taxing 
power of the state in respect of the commodity which was 
the subject of such transportation, may, so far as the 
commerce clause of the federal Constitution is concerned, 
be exerted in any way which the state’s constitution and 
laws permit, provided, of course, it does not discriminate 
against the commodity because of its origin in another 
state.’’ Hart Refineries v. Harmon, 278 U.S. 499, 501, 502, 
73 L. Ed. 475. 


es ESTELLE AIL NE ELE 
15 


As controlling and upholding the legality of the tax, we 
cite Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query, et al., 286 U. 8. 472 (Prelim- 
inary Print No. 3), 76 L. Ed. 852, opinion by Mr. Chief Justice 
Hughes, and affirming the opinion of the Supreme Court of 
S. C. as reported in 164 8. KE. 588. At pages 478 and 479 it is 
said: 

‘*We may lay aside, as not here involved, any question 
relating to importations from foreign countries. As to 
interstate commerce, the questions are (1) whether the 
Act as applied by the state court imposes a direet burden 
upon that commerce, and (2) whether, although the sub- 
ject of the tax would otherwise be within the power of 
the State, the tax is invalid beeause it creates an uncon- 
stitutional discrimination against transactions in. inter- 
state commerce. 

‘‘As to the first question, we are not concerned with 
what the tax is called but with what the statute does. It 
imposes an exaction with respect to gasoline purchased 
in other States and brought into South Carolina and there 
placed by appellants in storage for future use within the 
State. By the terms of the Act, as construed by the state 
court and applied to these appellants, interstate ecommerce 
in relation to the subject of the tax has ended. The gaso- 
line has come to rest within the State, having been placed 
in appellants’ storage tanks and added to appellants’ 
property kept for local purposes. In such cireumstances 
the State has the authority ‘to tax the produets or their 
storage or sale.” Texas Company v. Brown, 258 U. S. 
466, 478; Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton, 262 U.S. 506, 519, 
920; Hart Refineries v. Harmon, 278 U. 8S. 499, 501, 502. 
Not only may loeal sales of gasoline thus brought into 
the State be taxed, but its use as well. This was speeifical- 
ly determined in Bowman vy. Continental Oil Co., 256 
U.S. 642, 648, 649. See Hart Refineri cay v. Harmon, supra; 
Breece Lumber Co, v. Asplund, 283 U. S. 788. There is an 
exception in the case of a tax inal on use in interstate 
commerce, as on use in interstate transportation. Helson 
v. Kentucky, 279 U. S. 245, 252: Eastern Air Transport 

*. South Carolina Tax Comm., 285 U. 8. 147. In view of 
bia well-established principles, we find no ground for 
concluding that the State could not impose the tax with 
respect to the gasoline of appellants which was kept with- 


ait cas | 


Se Stehi SRE: 


16 


in the State for use in their local enterprises. As the 
Court said, in Hart Refineries v. Harmon, supra, inter- 
state transportation having ended, the taxing power of 
the state in respect to the commodity may, so far as the 
commerce clause of the Federal Constitution is concerned, 
‘be exerted in any way which the State’s constitution and 
laws permit’. This, of course, is on the assumption that 
the tax does not discriminate against the commodity be- 
cause of its origin in another State.”’ 


Bearing on the legality of the tax, the only difference be- 
tween the two statutes, as construed, is that the South Caro- 
lina statute ‘‘does not propose to tax any gasoline until 
twenty-four hours after it has lost its interstate character.”’ 
That the length of time the property has been stored, or has 
been ‘‘at rest’’, within the state is not the controlling feature, 
3 we quote from an importation case, as in point on the ques- 
— tion of the length of time the property must be ‘‘at rest’’ be- 
— fore it is subject to the taxing power of the state. 
: “‘Without further reference to authorities we state our 
conclusion to be that within the decision in Brown vy. 
: Maryland the boxes, cases or bales in which plaintiffs’ 
B goods were shipped were the original packages, and the 
goods imported by them lost their distinctive character 
as imports and became a part of the general mass of the 
property of Louisiana, and subject to local taxation as 


& other property in that state, the moment the boxes, 
z cases or bales in which they were shipped reached their 
3 destination for use or trade and were opened and the 


separate packages therein exposed or offered for sale; 

consequently, the assessment in question was not in viola- 

3 tion of the Constitution of the United States.’’ May v. 
New Orleans, 178 U.S. 496, 509, 510, 44 L. Ed. 1165. 


— In Foster & Creighton Co, v. Graham, et al., 154 Tenn. 412, 
3 285 S. W. 570, 47 A. L. R. 971, a tax on gasoline received in 
; interstate commerce and stored and used was sustained, al- 
~ though the statute contains no provision fixing any definite 
~ length of time for loss of its interstate character. 

In Burke v. Bass, et al., 242 N. W. 606, decided by the Su- 
_preme Court of Nebraska May 20, 1932, a tax on gasoline was 
sustained, under the same conditions as in the Tennessee case. 


__——— Pe er rE SEN 


eb PE Be POLE IE EI IEE 


17 


In Breece Lumber Co., et at. v. Mirabal, 34 N. M. 643, 287 
Pac. 699, a tax on gasoline was sustained, under the same eon- 
ditions as in the Tennessee and Nebraska cases. After the 
substitution of Asplund as defendant, as reported in 283 U. S. 
788, the decree of the state court was affirmed without opinion. 

‘Tt is not the intent with which the gasoline is to be 
used that determines the liability of the taxes, but it is 
the status of the gasoline at the time.’’ American Air- 
ways, Ine. v. Wallace, et al., 57 Fed. (2d) 877, 880. 

See, also, Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622, 632-634; 

American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500, 520; 

Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642, 648-649; 

Jerome H. Sheip Co. v. Amos, 130 So. 699 (Fla.). 


While in the Helson case, supra, the tax, levied by the State 
of Kentucky on gasoline purchased in Tlinois, was deelared 
illegal, the gasoline never at any time came to rest in Ken- 
tucky and never became part of the mass of the property of 
that state. Obviously that case is distinguishable from the in- 
stant case, both, on principle, and, as clearly shown by the 
Gregg Dyeing Co. case, supra, and other cases cited herein. 


TRA OLS — | 


18 


Conclusion 


It is, therefore, respectfully submitted that this case is one 
calling for the exercise by this Court of its supervisory pow- 
ers, in order that the State of Wyoming may proceed with the 
enforcement of its statutes and the collection of the license tax 
on gasoline, as provided therein, and that to such an end a writ 
of certiorari should be granted and this Court should review 
the decision of the United States Cireuit Court of Appeals for 
the Tenth Circuit. 

Respectfully submitted, 


James A. GREENWOOD, 
Attorney General of the 
State of Wyoming. 


Ricuarp J. JACKSON, 
Deputy Attorney General of 
the State of Wyoming. 


Grorce W. Fereuson, 
Assistant Attorney General 
of the State of Wyoming. 


R. Dwieur Watuace, 
Assistant Attorney General 
of the State of Wyoming. 


JosepH C. O’ManHoney, 
Attorney for the City of 
Cheyenne, Cheyenne, Wyo. 


T.S. Taviarerro, JR., 
Attorney for the City of Rock 
Springs, Rock Springs, 
Wyo. 
COUNSEL FOR PETITIONERS 


BER i EE ee ee GPO BEATE IL ES EN EEL be 


Appendix 


Chapter 115, Article 11, Wyoming Revised Statutes, 1931, 
page 1862. 


GASOLINE TAX 


115-1101. Definitions. The words and phrases used in this 
article shall be construed for the purpose thereof as follows: 

(1) ‘*Wholesaler’’ is hereby defined as any person, firm or 
corporation who imports or causes to be imported gasoline, as 
herein defined, for sale in the state of Wyoming to the jobber 
or consumer, or to the persons, firms, corporations or associa- 
tions of persons, who, in turn, sell to the jobber or consumer ; 
the term ‘‘wholesaler’’ is further defined to mean any person, 
firm or corporation who produces, refines, manufactures, 
blends or compounds gasoline in the state of Wyoming for 
use, sale or distribution in this state; 

(2) ‘‘*Gasoline’’ is hereby defined as the volatile substance 
produced from petroleum, natural gas, oil shales or coal, here- 
tofore sold under the name of gasoline, and such other volatile 
and inflammable liquids produced or compounded for the pur- 
pose of operating or propelling motor vehicles, except the 
product commonly known as kerosene. [L. ’23, ¢. 73, § 1. 


REE IES VEES 


115-1102. Amount of tax. A license tax of four cents per 
gallon is hereby levied on all gasoline used or sold in this state 
for domestic consumption to be colleeted as hereinafter set 
forth. [L. 29, ¢. 139, §1, amending L. ’27, c. 70, §1; L. ’25, e. 
89, §1; L. 723, e. 73, §2. 


115-1103. Payment of tax. Each and every wholesaler as 
defined in this article, who is now or who may hereafter en- 
gage in his own name, or in the name of others, or in the name 
of his representatives or agents in this state in the sale or use 
of gasoline as herein defined shall not later than the fifteenth 
of each month, render to the state treasurer a statement of 
all gasoline sold or used by them in the state of Wyoming dur- 
ing the preceding calendar month, and pay to the state treas- 
urer at the same time, the license tax of four cents per gallon 
on all such gasoline. Said statement to the state treasurer 
shall be upon blanks furnished by him, and shall be sworn 
to by the owner, or managing agent, in the case of an individ- 


See, “RES ce pe rere Pye ST OOPS oS ORRPREITAE SDL ——_ 


: 


20 


ual, firm or association, by the resident general agent or attur- 
ney, in the case of a foreign corporation or by one of the prin- 
cipal officers, in the case of a domestic corporation. Every 
person, firm or corporation, who shall use any gasoline in 
this state upon which the said tax has not been paid by any 
wholesaler in this state, shall, on or before the 15th day of each 
calendar month, render a true statement to the state treas- 
urer, duly signed and sworn to, and accompany such state- 
ment with the payment of a tax of four cents per gallon on 
all gasoline as shown by such statement to have been used by 
him; provided, that before making the distribution of funds 
provided for in § 115-1108, the state treasurer shall pay over 
all funds received from the gasoline license tax on gasoline 
used at any municipal or county air field to the city, town 
or county where such air field is located, to be used for the 
maintenance and improvement of such air field. [L. 731, e. 
23, § 1, amending L. ’29, Spec. Sess., ¢. 14, § 1; L. ’23, e. 
73, § 3. 


115-1104. Penalty for violation. Any party violating any 
of the provisions of this article, shall be guilty of a misde- 
meanor, and upon conviction thereot by any court of compe- 
tent jurisdiction, shall be subject to a fine of not less than fifty 
dollars and not more than two hundred dollars, or to imprison- 
ment for one month, or to both such fine and imprisonment. 
[L °29, Spee. Sess., ¢. 14, § 2. 


115-1105. Report to state treasurer. Every person, firm, 
corporation, association, co-partnership or common carrier, 
transporting, conveying or bringing gasoline into the state of 
Wyoming, for retail or wholesale consumption or distribution 
within the state of Wyoming, shall furnish to the state treas- 
urer of the state of Wyoming, upon a form to be provided by 
the treasurer, not later than the 10th day of each calendar 
month, a verified statement showing the gallons of gasoline 
delivered into the state of Wyoming during the month pre- 
ceding such report, giving the name of the person, firm, cor- 
poration, association or co-partuership to whom the same was 
delivered and the place of delivery. [L. ’29, ¢. 89, § 1. 


115-1106. Penalty for failure to report. Failure to fur- 
nish such reports to the state treasurer of the state of Wyo- 
ming as provided by this article within twenty days after the 
date when same is due shall be deemed a misdemeanor and 


SE GaP ny rR ce gna tiaise cu oe ea BE OS OOD 


a RATES ELAR DEAE INGE BENET ING os 


21 


upon conviction, be punishable by a fine of not less than 
$25.00 nor more than $100.00 for each separate offense. [L. 
29, ec. 89, § 3. 


115-1107. Record of gasoline brought into state. Every 
wholesaler in gasoline and every person, firm, corporation, 
co-partnership, or common carrier transporting, eonveying 
or bringing gasoline into the state of Wyoming for retail or 
wholesale consumption or distribution within the state of 
Wyoming, as in this article defined shall keep a record of all 
purchases, receipts, sales and distribution of gasoline; such 
records shall at all times be subject to inspection by the state 
treasurer or his deputies or such other officers duly author- 
ized by the state treasurer. [L. ’29, c. 89, § 2, amending L. ’23, 
¢. 73, § 4. 


115-1108. Distribution of receipts from tax. Seventy-five 
per centum of all funds received by the state treasurer from 
the gasoline license tax provided for in this article, shall be 
placed to the credit of the state highway fund and shall be 
used: first, for the payment of interest upon any hereafter 
issued state highway bonds as such interest may become due; 
and, second, for maintenance, improvement and asphalt oil 
surfacing for state highways; provided, that funds for the 
said second purpose of maintenance, improvement and asphalt 
oil surfacing for state highways, shall be apportioned be- 
tween the several counties of the state in proportion to the 
number of miles of designated state highways therein. The re- 
maining twenty-five per centum shall be apportioned by the 
state treasurer between the several counties of the state, thirty 
per centum in the ratio which the area of the county bears to 
the total area of the state, excepting areas included in national 
parks; thirty per centum in the ratio which the rural popula- 
tion of the county bears to the total rural population of the 
state according to the last available state or federal census, 
and forty per centum in the ratio which the assessed valuation 
of the county bears to the last total assessed valuation of the 
state, and on July 15th, and quarterly thereafter he shall pay 
same to the respective county treasurers who shall eredit the 
same to the county road fund; provided, that seventy-five per 
centum of all refunds or other expenses paid by the state treas- 
urer according to law, shall be charged to the state highway 
fund, and twenty-five per centum to the fund to be appor- 


i 


OCS 


ct ————— 


22 


tioned among the counties. [L. ’31, c. 73, § 167, amending L. 
’29, Spec. Sess., ¢. 11, § 1; L. ’23, ¢. 73, § 5. 


115-1109. Display of sign. Every pcrson, firm or corpora- 
tion, who shall have in his possession, for the purpose of sale, 
or who shall sell or offer for sale to the retail trade, gasoline 
for use in motor vehicles, shall display in a conspicuous place a 
sign stating the price at which said gasoline should be sold and 
the amount of tax thereon. And any person, firm or corpora- 
tion who shall neglect to so give the notice provided for in 
this article, or who shall violate any of the provisions of this 
article, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction 
thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than twenty- 
five dollars ($25.00), nor more than one hundred dollars 
($100.00), or by imprisonment in a county jail for not less 
than ten days nor more than thirty days, or by both such fine 
and imprisonment. [L. ’27, «. 70, § 4, amending L. 25, ¢. 
89, § 4. 


115-1110. Violation—-Penalty. It shall be unlawful for any 
such wholesaler, as herein defined, of gasoline, or other prod- 
ucts subject to said tax, to sell or offer the same for sale in 
the state of Wyoming while delinquent in the payment of the ; 
whole or any part of the tax due and payable hereunder, and 
any such wholesaler who fails or refuses to pay the tax herein- 
before provided for at the time the same becomes due, shall be 
liable for double the amount thereof to be recovered in a suit 
instituted by and in the name of the state of Wyoming in any 
court of competent jurisdiction, in which suit, upon appliea- 
tion made by the state of Wyoming, a writ of injunction may 
be issued against the defendant or defendants without requir- 
ing any bond, enjoining and restraining them from selling or E 
attempting to sell or offer for sale in the state of Wyoming any : 
gasoline or other products subject to said tax, while the whole 
or any part of the tax due from such defendant remains un- 
paid, and in such suit the court may, upon application made by 
the state of Wyoming, appoint a receiver of the property and 
business of the defendant, for the purpose of impounding the 
same as security for the payment of said delinquent tax and 
any judgment recovered in said suit. The state treasurer, or 
his assistant or deputies, shall have the right, during business 
hours to inspect the books and records of any party subject to 
said tax, for the purpose of determining the amount of tax due 
and payable and whether the same has been paid. Any party 

sd cater f= er SiH = ee 


aes 


23 


violating any of the provisions of this article shall be guilty 
of amisdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof by any court of 
competent jurisdiction, shall be subject to a fine of not less 
than fifty dollars ($50.00) and not more than two hundred dol- 
lars ($200.00) or to imprisonment for one month, or to both 
such fine and imprisonment. The remedies herein provided 
shall be cumulative. [L. ’29, ¢. 139, ¢ 4, amending L. ’23, 
ce. 73, § 6. 


115-1111. Exception. Said gasoline license tax shall not 
be imposed on gasoline when exported or sold for exportation 
from the state of Wyoming to any other state or nation. [L. 
23, e. 73, § 8. 


115-1112. Prosecution. Upon request of the state treas- 
urer, it shall be the duty of the attorney general to commence 
and prosecute to final determination in any court of competent 3 
jurisdiction, any and all necessary action or actions at law, to f 
enforce the provisions of this article. [L. ’23, e. 73, § 9. 


LPP NILE LE IO LLB OLE VEL LSE ESERIES TER 


NITE” 5 cept ceive dastices caiinsgiaiediehcoaie Sisters xedoapadhioaskioteaoan coon sanpiebatcahaners 1 


THE STATUTES OF WYOMING LEVY A LICENSE TAX OF 
FOUR CENTS PER GALLON ON ALL GASOLINE USED 
OR SOLD FOR DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION, AFTER ITS 
STORAGE IN THE STATE, AND DO NOT TAX THE USE 
OF GASOLINE AS A MEANS BY WHICH INTERSTATE 
REC BU GU ET 0 onan nicssccsncscnisnavnrsrssosesessssntsossesameesnonen 2 ‘ 


a he el sah cin asbsnsbscepecussaionieciavetiirniodilh 7 


Table of Cases Cited 


Cudahy Packing Company v. Minnesota, 246 U. 8. 450, 453.0000... 4 
Dawson v. Kentucky Distilleries, 255 U. S. 288, 292.....0..00000000...... 4 
Galveston, Harrisbury ete. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. 8. 217, 227.......... 5 
Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. S. 472, 476.2000... cece eeeeeee 4 
Gulf Refining Co. v. Smith, et al., 164 Ga. 811, 814, 139 S. E. 716, 
a aa a a us linknpniateenseowaeanipalaniicaniiahenes ci 3 
Kansas City Ry. v. Kansas, 240 U.S. 227, 231........000000.. cece ee eeeeeeeeeees 5 
I Ws NUR OP ic Wc Wy, BD soa cicccctacavinccacaesistisianvnsaosscenesiessentaavecrsarns 5 
Patton v. Brady, "xecutrix, 184 U. 8. 608, 618-619... 5 
The Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway v. Roy C. Wallace, 
Commpteorer, OC OL, Fem. G TOSS, NOs TGC. onan. cneccnssccnscrsnsensrsscsseasee 1 
U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U.S. 335, 344.0000. 5 


Statute Cited 


Amendment of Special Session, 1929.....................:.::.scsccsseeceeeeeeeeseencneeeees 2 


A 

& 

Bene a : - a s 
LERTS, ? ‘ Ke ppeaes oe | 


PP RET PPBOIE 
REPEL AT NT I TE 
fe ’ ’ IEP Over ety 
A ; 


EDA TS rl PN 


SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 
OCTOBER TERM, 1932 


No. 571 


WILLIAM H. EDELMAN, State Treasurer; 
HARRY R. WESTON, State Treasurer; 
THE CITY OF CHEYENNE, ET AL., 
Petitioners 
vs. 


BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC. 
Supplement to Brief in Support of Petition 


Correction 


There is an error in the printed decision of the Circuit 
Court of Appeals, quoted in the petition for writ of certiorari. 
In line 17, page 4, following ‘‘without’’, there should be in- 
serted, ‘‘protest, but’’. The sentence should read, ‘‘ Appellant 
paid the tax on the gasoline used by it locally and on that sold 
to others without protest, but protested payments on all put 
in its tanks and used in interstate flights’’. (R. 140) 


Argument 


Opinion of the District Court is at page 119 of the Record. 

Opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals is at page 132 of 
the Record. 

Decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is at page 142 of the 
Record. 

We think that the decision of this Court announced Feb- 
ruary 6, 1933, in No. 176, The Nashville, Chattanooga & St. 
Louis Railway v. Roy C. Wallace, Comptroller, et al., estab- 
lishes the correctness of propositions B and © of the Argu- 
ment of petitioners’ brief in support of the petition, and the 
legality of an excise tax on gasoline consumed in interstate 
commerce, under the facts disclosed by the Record in the case 
at bar. Indeed, although not controlling, there is one stronger 


Ma AS 
e 
¥ 
g 
A 
' 
Les 


f, . 


a 
Ey] 
r 
oy 
“f 
ig 
is 
x 
‘a 
PA 
od 
4 
Ae 


Shed hes Narre 
bal de see at 


ak og ae PA Oe 


a 


Se alate ety 


peas 


Cree ree 


a ee 


~ fact in the instant case. Respondent sold a portion of the 
' gasoline stored in its tanks and from which it withdrew the 


gasoline on which it is seeking to enjoin the collection of the 
tax and contracted with the City of Rock Springs for the right 
of such sale. 

Proposition ‘‘A’’ of petitioners’ brief is as follows: 


“THE STATUTES OF WYOMING LEVY A LICENSE 
TAX OF FOUR CENTS PER GALLON ON ALL GASO- 
LINE USED OR SOLD FOR DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION, 
AFTER ITS STORAGE IN THE STATE, AND DO NOT 
TAX THE USE OF GASOLINE AS A MEANS BY WHICH 
INTERSTATE COMMERCE IS EFFECTED.”’ 


The Wyoming statutes are given in full as an appendix to 
brief of petitioners in support of their petition, beginning at 
page 19. 

The Cireuit Court of Appeals said, ‘‘ We think it plain that 
the original act and as amended imposes the tax only against 
wholesalers as that term is defined in the original act’’. (R. 
135) 

That the Wyoming gasoline tax primarily is intended to be 
collected from and paid by the wholesaler, as defined in the 
law, we think is true. 

Chapter 14 of the Special Session of 1929 amended Section 
2 of Chapter 139, Session Laws of 1929 (Section 115-1103, 
W. R.S., 1931), by adding at the end thereof the following: 


‘Every person, firm or corporation, who shall use any 
gasoline in this state upon which the said tax has not been 
paid by any wholesaler in this state, shal’, on or before 
the 15th day of each calendar month, render a true state- 
ment to the state treasurer, duly signed and sworn to, 
and accompany such statement with the payment of a tax 
of four cents per gallon on all gasoline as shown by such 
statement to have been used by him; provided, that be- 
fore making the distribution of funds provided for in 
Section 115-1108, the state treasurer shall pay over all 
funds received from the gasoline license tax on gasoline 
used at any municipal er county air field to the city, town 
or county where such air field is located, to be used for 
the maintenance and improvement of such air field.”’ 


prea eo Ate, 
ogee 


ae 


Thus this amendment provides for three distinct things: 

(1) Levies the tax on ‘‘Every person, firm or corpora- 
tion’’, coming under its provisions, and not defined as a 
‘‘wholesaler’’ ; 

(2) Provides for the payment of the tax; and, 

(3) Provides that the tax on ‘‘all gasoline used at any 
municipal * * * air field’’ shall be paid over to the city 
where located ‘‘for the maintenance and improvement of such 
air field’’. 

The only other difference between the Wallace case and the 
ease at bar is as to the wording of the state statutes. The 
Tennessee statute imposes the tax on ‘‘storing any of the 
products mentioned in this act, and distributing the same, or 
allowing the same to be withdrawn from storage, whether 
such withdrawal be for sale or other use’’. By the amend- 
ment the Wyoming law levies the tax ‘‘on gasoline used at 
any municipal or county air field’’, and by the preceding 
Section ‘‘on al] gasoline used or sold in this state for do- 
mestic consumption’’. 

In the Wallace case it was decided that a tax on gasoline 
purchased outside the state of Tennessee and stored within 
the state, withdrawn and used in generating motive power in 
interstate commerce, was a valid tax, under the statute of 
that state. 

Therefore the only question in the case at bar is, Is the tax 
valid under a statute levying the same ‘‘on all gasoline used 
* * * in this state for domestic consumption’’, as provided 
in Section 115-1102, and as provided in the following Section, 
as amended, ‘‘on gasoline used at any municipal * * * air 
field’’? 

We understand that it is the taxation of the use of gasoline 
in the sense of its consumption as a fuel that is forvidden in 
the Helson case, for, referring thereto, it is said in the Wallace 
case that the tax forbidden therein was ‘‘levied upon the use 
of gasoline ir. generating motive power for a ferry boat used 
exclusively ia interstate commerce’’. 

The word -‘used’’ admits of different meanings, such as 
sold, consumed in generating motive power, and stored and 
withdrawn. 

‘*A sale is one of the uses to which property can be sub- 
jected. As relating to one’s possession, the word ‘use’ in- 
cludes every purpose for which such property may be used’’, 
Gulf Refining Co. v. Smith, et al., 164 Ga. 811, 814, 139 S. E. 
716, 718. 


FUSION 


pt ES ee 
ie eee eae 


hs EES ESA RSS EER 


Cn os SN ASE NG IODIDE A TIT SAR ENP GY BEN a AD 


a 


Gasoline used in the state for domestic consumption, used 
at an air field, or used tor domestic consumption at an air 
field, is not gasoline used in generating motive power. Since 
the law qualifies use for domestic consumption, this is the use 
that is the basis of the tax, and not that of generating motive 
power in interstate commerce. 

Respondent stores and withdraws the gasoline on which 
petitioners collect the tax. Respondent uses the gasoline at 
the municipal air field, that is, it stores and withdraws the 
gasoline at the air field. Petitioners are not taxing the use 
of gasoline in generating motive power, after it is withdrawn 
from respondent’s storage tanks. If they were, they would 
tax all gasoline so used from the time respondent’s airplanes 
crossed the state line, as was attempted in the Helson case. 

However, we a. not think that the mere wording of the 
statute is controlling, for it has been repeatedly held by this 
Court, in passing on the legality of a tax, that it regards the 
substance and not the form. 

‘‘In maintaining rights asserted under the Federal Consti- 
tution, the decision of this Court is not dependent upon the 
form of a taxing scheme, or upon the characterization of it 
by the state court. We regard the substance rather than the 
form, and the controlling test is found in the operation and 
effect of the statute as applied and enforced by the State.’’ 
Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. S. 472, 476. And at page 
478 it is said, ‘‘As to the first question (imposing a direct 
burden upon interstate commerce), we are not concerned with 
what the tax is called, but with what the statute does.’’ 

‘*The name by which the tax is described in the statute is, 
of course, immaterial. Its character must be determined by 
its incidents;’’ Dawson yv. Kentucky Distilleries, 255 U. S. 
288, 292. 

‘*On the other hand, if what is done is to reach the property 
and not to tax the gross earnings, the latter being taken mere- 
ly as an index or measure of the value of the former, it well 
may be that the objection urged against the tax is untenable; 
for, as this court has said, ‘by whatever name the tax or taxes 
may be called that are fixed by reference to the value of the 
property, if they are not imposed because of its use in inter- 
state or foreign commerce, and if they amount to no more 
than would be legitimate as an ordinary tax upon the prop- 
erty, valued with reference to the use in which it is employed, 


8 AR RN abe STAI ities 1] 


nelle 


they are not open to attack’ as restraining or burdening such © 
commerce.’’ Cudahy Packing Co. v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450, 
453. 

‘And, further, in determining whether a tax has such a ~ 
direct relation to interstate commerce as to be an exercise of | 
power prohibited by the commerce clause, our decision must 
regard the substance of the exaction—its operation and effect 
as enforced—and cannot depend upon the manner in which 
the taxing scheme has been characterized.’’ Kansas City Ry. 
v. Kansas, 240 U. S. 227, 231. 

‘“‘The difficulty has been, and is, to distinguish between 
legitimate attempts to exert the taxing power of the State 
and those laws which, though in the guise of taxation, impose 
real burdens upon interstate commerce as such.’’ U. 5. Ex- 
press Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U.S. 335, 344. 

‘‘Neither the state courts nor the legislatures, by giving 
the tax a particular name or by the use of some form of words, 
can take away our duty to consider its nature and effect. If it 
bears upon commerce among the states so directly as to 
amount to a regulation in a relatively immediate way, it will 
not be saved by name or form.’’ Galveston, Harrisbury ete. 
Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. 8. 217, 227. 

‘‘Taxation is eminently practical, and is in fact brvvght to 
every man’s door, and for the purpose of deciding upon its 
validity a tax should be regarded in its actual, practical re- 
sults, rather than with reference to those theoretical or ab- 
stract ideas whose correctness is the subject of dispute and 
contradiction among those who are experts in the science of 
political economy.’’ Nicol v. Ames, 173 U.S. 509, 516. 

The most unfavorable view that can be taken of the Wyo- 
ming law is that it provides for the payment of a non-discrim- 
inatory license tax of four cents per gallon on all gasoline 
which has become a part of the general mass of the property 
of the State. Without ourselves presuming to define an excise 
tax, it has been frequently referred to by this Court as an 
indirect tax. We think that one of its characteristics is that 
only those are required to pay it who voluntarily acquire or 
use the article on which it is levied. That is, it is a tax levied 
on certain articles, such as tobacco, intoxicating liquors and 
gasoline. As was said by this Court in Patton v. Brady, Ex- 
ecutrix, 184 U. S. 608, 618-619: 


aS eeusee ort 
. 
¥ 
¥ 


PS aie. 
a A 


ms 


_ a 


‘‘Tt is true other counsel in their brief have advanced a very 
elaborate and ingenious argument to show that this is a direct 


» tax upon property which must be apportioned according to 


population within the rule laid down in the Income Taz cases, 
but, as we have seen, it is not a tax upon property as such but 
upon certain kinds of property, having reference to their 
origin and intended use.’’ 

The District Judge sustained the tax as compensation to the 
cities for the facilities furnished and their outlay in main- 
tenance and upkeep of the air fields. We do not deem it nec- 


_ essary to cite additional authorities to those relied on by him. 
_ He having found the compensation reasonable, we think this 
_ finding will be accepted by this Court. (R. 126-131) 


a oe 


Conclusion 


It is uniformly held that the user of the article pays the 
excise tax. In enforcing the payment of the gasoline tax by 
respondent, petitioners are collecting a uniform, non-discrim- 
inatory tax on all users of gasoline in the State, and on which 
no tax has been paid. To declare the tax invalid, as admin- 
istered against respondent, is to place respondent in a pre- 
ferred class as a user of gasoline in generating motive power 
in interstate commerce. 

We respectfully submit that the decree of the United States 
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, remanding 
this cause with instructions to issue the injunction, should be 
reversed, with directions to affirm in all respects the decree of 
dismissal rendered by the United States District Court for 
the District of Wyoming. 

Respectfully submitted, 


James A. GreENWooD, 
Attorney General of the State of 
Wyoming. 


Ricuarp J. Jackson, 
Deputy Attorney General of the 
State of Wyoming. 


Grorce W. Fercuson, 
Assistant Attorney General of the 
State of Wyoming. 


R. Dwient Watwace, 
Assistant Attorney General of the 
State of Wyoming. 


Barp FErra.u, 
Attorney for the City of Cheyenne, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming. 


T. S. Taurarerno, JRr., 
Attorney for the City of Rock Springs, 
Rock Springs, Wyoming. 


COUNSEL FOR PETITIONERS. 


SS CNG Ree : 


SE, i ctsircsicsicignctersucie Dacian cee Soettresoredeaaanee eaanibabo inane 
THE STATUTES OF WYOMING LEVY A LICENSE TAX OF 
FOUR CENTS PER GALLON ON ALL GASOLINE USED 
OR SOLD FOR DOMESTIC CONSUMPTION, AFTER ITS 
STORAGE IN THE STATE, AND DO NOT TAX THE USE 
OF GASOLINE AS A MEANS BY WHICH INTERSTATE 


PEER MEE. Re | MRI ON MND sos vnsssnnnavsesaconsspusbetusodoenininandiassbocscomeeniaa 2 
CE srs cossedishcs athenskspe em ruhsoceaiciosbal picecmavenrsiouuiniiandaaes 7 
Table of Cases Cited 
Cudahy Packing Company v. Minnesota, 246 U. 8. 450, 4530000000000... 4 
Dawson v. Kentucky Distilleries, 255 U. S. 288, 292.000.0000. 4 
Galveston, Harrisbury ete. Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. 8. 217, 227.0000... 5 
Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. S. 472, 476.0000... eeeceeeeeeeees 4 

Gulf Refining Co. v. Smith, et al., 164 Ga. 11, 814, 139 S. FE. 716, 
WE chesird sida ania baleciecola ustcninca aud apltiepenaabacadatan sem ves Capea aera ne 3 
Kansas City Ry. v. Ranens, 2400. &. 227, DO1......0..nccceccccessesces cccsssssseeee 5 
Nicol v. Ames, 173 U. 8. 509, 516............ 6b RE I ES be OPTED OR sic 
Patton v. Brady, Executrix, 184 U.S, 608, 618-619... 5 


The Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Railway v. Roy C. Wallace, 
Comptroller, et al., Feb. 6, 1933, No. 176.000.000.000... ASL ate 


U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335, 344.0000 eee 


Statute Cited 


Amendment of Special Session, 1929 


———— 


I 


Supreme Court of the 
United States 


October Term, 1932. 


WILLIAM H. EDELMAN, State Treasurer; HARRY 
R. WESTON, State Treasurer; THE CITY OF 
CHEYENNE, a municipal corporation; and 
THE CITY OF ROCK SPRINGS, a municipal 
corporation, 

Petitioners, 
v. 


BORING ATR TRANSPORT, INC., a corporation, 
Respondent. 


BRIEF FOR THE RESPONDENT IN OPPOSI- 
TION TO THE PETITION FOR 
WRIT OF CERTIORARI. 


JOH N W. LAC ‘E y, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming, 


ELMER E. TODD, 

FRANK E,. HOLMAN, 
WILLIAM M. ALLEN, 
CLARENCE R. INNIS, 


ies Bastidine Seattle, Washington, 


Seattle, Washington. Attorneys for Respondent. 


SUBJECT INDEX. 
Brief Page 
BRIEF IN OPPOSITION TO THE PETITION FOR 
WRIT OF CERTIORARI: 


1. OPINIONS OF THE COURTS BELOW Let Se 
Il. JURISDICTION .. SEA EN ELE Oe A 
Ill. STATEMENT OF THE CASE...w22002022200. 0. -2ecececcceceeeceeceeeee 4 
IV. SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT..............00000000 eB 
Pe RR Ee EES a VES EN PR OC OP OO . ® 


Point I. PETITIONERS’ CONTENTION THAT THE 
CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS HELD THE 
WYOMING GASOLINE TAX ACT INVALID 
WITH RESPECT TO GASOLINE PURCHASED 
OUTSIDE OF THE STATE IS ERRONEOUS... 9 


Point Hl. LF PETITIONERS ARE CORRECT IN THEIR 
CONTENTION THAT THE CIRCUIT COURT 
OF APPEALS DID HOLD INVALID THE TAX 
IMPOSED BY THE WYOMING GASOLINE 
TAX ACT ON GASOLINE PURCHASED BY 
RESPONDENT OUTSIDE OF THE STATE OF 
WYOMING AND THEREAFTER IMPORTED 
INTO SAID STATE FOR USE IN ITS AIR- 
PLANES IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE, SUCII 
DECISION IS IN FULL ACCOKD WITIL THE 
DECISIONS OF THIS COURT. = 4 


TABLE OF CASES CITED: 
Boeing Air Transport, Ine. vy. Edelman, et al.,51 Fed. (2) 150) 3 


Boeing Air Transport, Ine. v. Edelman, et al.,61 Fed. (2) 319 3 
Eastern Air Transport, Ine. v. South Carolina Tax Commis- 


sion, et al., 285 U.S. 147......0... LEE PRERN eI 
Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U.S. 506.00... ee ee 12 
Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U.S. 472 DS ole Wien 2, TEP AT as 16 
Helson v. Kentueky, 279 U.S. 245000000000. a = 


TABLE OF STATUTES CITED: 


$240(a), Act of February 13, 1925, ch. 229, 43 Stat. L. 936 
(U.S. C., Title 28, $347 (a) ) 0. ‘ieie 4 


Ch. 115, Art. 11, Wyoming Rev. Stat. 1931 pet AAPL AEF 


TABLE OF RULES CITED: 
Supreme Court Rule 38 2... See 


ae i ites kata * PEGE Ea 


Supreme Court of the 
United States 


October Term, 1932. 


WILLIAM H. EDELMAN, State Treasurer; HARRY 
R. WESTON, State Treasurer; THE CITY OF 
CHEYENNE, a municipal corporation; and 
THE CITY OF ROCK SPRINGS, a municipal 
corporation, 

Petitioners, 
v. 
3OKING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., a corporation, 


Respondent. 


BRIEF FOR THE RESPONDENT IN OPPOSI- 
TION TO THE PETITION FOR 
WRIT OF CERTIORARI. 


Ss 
OPINIONS OF THE COURT BELOW. 
The opinion of the United States District Court 
is reported in 51 Fed. (2) 130 and is at p. 118 of 
the Record. 


The opinion of the United States Cireuit Court 
of Appeals for the Tenth Cireuit is reported in 61 
Fed. (2) 319 and is at p. 134 of the Record. 


SA EAEDAL SALI HEIR RE EEN PAD PSR Ver BE cei 


4 
If. 
JURISDICTION. 


By reason of Section 240 (a), Aet of February 
13th, 1925, ch. 229; 483 Statutes at Large 936 (U.S. 
C., Title 28, Sec. 347 a) this Court has jurisdiction 
to grant the petition for writ of certiorari. How- 
ever, as hereinafter pointed out, the reasons usually 
required by this Court for the issuance of a writ of 
eertiorart: are entirely lacking in this case (Rule 38 


of this Court). 


III 
STATEMENT OF THE CASE. 


As a statement of the case petitioners content 
themselves with a quotation from the opinion of the 
Cireuit Court of Appeals. The summary of facts 
in this quotation in some material respects includes 
deductions by the writer of the opinion which are 
not supported by the Reeord and are not coneurred 
in by the other members of the Court. Respondent 
therefore deems it advisable io make a complete 


statement of the case as disclosed by the Record. 


In this case respondent sought to enjoin the 
State Treasurer of Wyoming from exacting payment 
of a tax imposed under the laws of Wyoming with 
respect to gasoline used by the airplanes of respond- 


ent While engaged in interstate commerce and to re- 


5 


cover certain sums paid as taxes, under protest (R. 
11-12, 6, 45). 


Respondent is a corporation organized under the 
laws of the State of Washington and qualified to 
do business in the State of Wyoming (R. 2,61). The 
petitioner William H. Edelman was State Treasurer 
of Wyoming at the time of the institution of the 
action (R.31). The petitioner Harry R. Weston was 
State Treasurer of Wyoming at the time the case 
came on for trial in the District Court (R. 47). Both 
Edelman and Weston are residents of the State of 
Wyoming (R. 47). The petitioners, the City of 
Cheyenne and the City of Rock Springs, are munic- 
ipal corporations organized under the laws of the 
State of Wyoming and, as such, are residents of that 
State (R. 47, 48). 


Respondent is engaged in the transportation by 
air of mail, passengers and express, between the 
cities of Chicago, Illinois and San Francisco. Cali- 
fornia (R. 89). Mail is carried under contract with 
the United States Government; express and passen- 
gers are carried for hire (R. 63, 89). Gasoline is 
used as fuel to propel the airplanes of respondent 
(R. 89). 


The planes of the respondent land in Wyoming 
at the Cities of Cheyenne and Rock Springs (R. 101), 


The first stop to the east of Cheyenne is North Platte, 


Neeser 


ay 
6 


Nebraska, and the first stop to the west of Rock 
Springs is Salt Lake City, Utah (R. 101). The 
amount of intrastate commerce, as compared with 
the interstate commerce in Wyoming, is insignificant, 
and the interestate and the intrastate transportation 
of mail, passengers and express are so commingled 
that it would be impossible to apportion the tax be- 
tween them (R. 94-95, 49). 


The gasoline that is placed in the respondent’s 
planes at Cheyenne and Rock Springs, Wyoming, is 
stored in the tanks of the respondent at the Cheyenne 
and Rock Springs airports and at the time it is taken 
from the tanks for use, a record is made of the amount 
used in interstate commerce and the amount used 
locally (R. 97-98). The tax is collected by the State 
Treasurer after the gasoline is used by the respond- 
ent (R. 97). 


The taxes on gasoline which is used locally are 
paid without protest (R. 103). The taxes on gasoline 
used in respondent’s planes as the fuel to propel the 
planes in interstate commerce are paid under pro- 
test, and these are the taxes which are the subject of 
this action (R. 93, 103). The protested taxes are paid 
in order to avoid the heavy penalties imposed by the 


Wyoming laws for non-payment (R. 90-91). 


The taxes involved in this action were imposed 


by the State of Wyoming with respect to gasoline 


a 
7 


placed in the planes of respondent in the State of 
Wyoming between March 15, 1930, and May 12, 1931, 
for use in interstate commerce (R. 55-56). The taxes 
paid under protest by respondent to the State of 
Wyoming during this period were in excess of 
$15,000.00 CR. 55-56). 


The tax in question is imposed by ch. 115, Art. 
11, Wyoming Revised Statutes for 1931, a copy of 


which is set forth in the appendix to petitioner’s brief : 


on file herein. 


eae FRR AT 


The gasoline with respect to which the tax in 
question was imposed was purchased by respondent 
hoth within and without the State of Wyoming (R. 
97). On or before the 15th day of each month, the 
respondent paid to the State Treasurer the tax on all 
gasoline consumed by the respondent during the pre- 


ecding calendar month (R. 99), 


The District Court held that the tax in question, 
irrespective of whether the gasoline was acquired 
Within or without the State of Wyoming, was a tax 
upon the ase of gasoline. The Court recognized that, 
under the decision of this Court in Helson v. Ken- 
lucky, 279 U.S. 45, a tax imposed upon the use of 
gasoline in interstate commerce is an unlawful bur- 
den upon that commerce. The District Court held, 
however, that inasmuch as the proceeds of the tax 


were turned over by the State to the Cities of Chey- 


¥ 
Pm 
* | 


SRE ERIE RIE OES TARAS TO OEM <a 


enne and Rock Springs for the maintenance and 
improvement of their airports which were used by 
the respondent, the tax was in effect an exaction 
of compensation for the use of these airports and 
consequently was not an unlawful burden upon inter- 
state commerce (R. 118-131). 


The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the tax 
in question was a license tax on the wholesaler of 
gasoline which required the wholesaler to pay a tax 
upon the sale or use of all gasoline sold or used by 
him in Wyoming; that respondent was required to 
pay the tax with respect to gasoline purchased by 
respondent from a wholesaler in Wyoming but that 
the tax did not apply with respect to gasoline pur- 
chased by the respondent outside of the State of Wyo- 
ming (R. 134-144). 


IV. 
SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT. 


I. Petitioners’ contention that the Cireuit Court 
of Appeals held the tax in question invalid as to 
gasoline purchased outside of the State is erroneous. 


The Cirenit Court of Appeals took the view that the 


3 Pat et ReaasRi aoe SERRATE sata Ut sabia eit ae 8 ont cain pis SgWse ams PF ey abies ip eR ee tte teen eee Ee eS 


Wyoming Act merely imposed a license tax upon 
persons engaged in selling gasoline as wholesalers in 
the State and that therefore no tax could be collected 
under the statute in question as to gasoline purchased 


by respondent outside of Wyoming. 


8 EMMA SDS fie ROLES EIEN 


II. If petitioners are correct in their conten- 
tion that the Cireuit Court of Appeals held the Wyo- 
ming tax invalid with respect to gasoline purchased 
hy respondent outside of Wyoming, the decision of 
the Cireuit Court is in full aecord with the decisions 
of this Court. 


V. 
ARGUMENT. 


Port I. 


PETITIONERS’ CONTENTION THAT THE Circuit CouRT 
or APPEALS HELD THE WYOMING GASOLINE Tax AcT 
InvaLiy With Respect TO GASOLINE PURCHASED 
OUTSIDE OF THE STATE Is ERRONEOUS. 


On the second page of petitioners’ brief (p. 8 of 
petition and brief) the petitioners make the follow- 
ing statement: 


‘ 


“The opinion of the United States Circuit 
Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit sustains 
the tax as legal on all such gasoline procured 
by respondent on purchases within the State of 
Wyoming and holds the tax to be illegal on all 
such gasoline procured by respondent on pur- 
chases outside the State of Wyoming and then 
brought into said state and used in propelling 
its airplanes in interstate commerce.”’ 


As we read the opinion of the Circuit Court of 


Appeals, that Court did not attempt to pass upon 


ae — 


i 


10 


the validity of the Wyoming Gasoline Tax Act as ap- 
plied to gasoline purchased by respondent outside of 
the State. The Circuit Court simply held that the Wyo- 
ming Act did not apply with respect to such gaso- 
line. Respondent does not agree with the Circuit 
Court in its conclusions as to the nature of the tax 
imposed. Respondent has consistently taken the posi- 
tion throughout this case that the tax imposed upon 
respondent with respect to gasoline purchased both 
within and without Wyoming is a tax upon the use of 
gasoline. The Cireuit Court of Appeals, however, 
construes the Wyoming Act as imposing a_ license 
tax upon persons engaged in selling gasoline as whole- 
salers in Wyoming. <As to gasoline purchased by the 
respondent from a wholesaler in Wyoming, the Court 
said that the wholesaler was obligated to pay the 
tax and that when respondent itself paid the tax it 
was simply discharging the primary obligation of the 
wholesaler. The Court sets forth ifs view in this con- 
nection in the following language: 

“The tax here under consideration is the li- 
cense tax against the wholesaler exacted of him 
for the privilege of carrying on the business of 
selling gasoline, and when appellant made its 
purchase it had an option under the statuie of 
then paying the tax added to the purchase price, 
or of assuming its payment and accounting to 
the State Treasurer therefor after it had used 
the gasoline. It chose to do the latter and thus 


LiL SRA PTASE LIONS AEN SG LATED MAI RIPE BILL PANEER LENDING PUNT OP 


11 


discharged a primary obligation of the whole- 
saler.’’ 


The view of the character of the tax imposed by 
the Wyoming Statute (thus expressed by the Cir- 
cuit Court of Appeals) necessarily excluded from the 
operation of the statute the gasoline purchased by 
the respondent outside the State of Wyoming. The 
Circuit Court of Appeals has so held, and directed 
that an injunction issue against the collection of any 
tax with respect to the gasoline purchased by the 
respondent outside the State of Wyoming for use in 
fueling its planes in interstate commerce. The fact 
that the injunction is limited to gasoline used in inter- 
state commerce does not militate against the view 
that the Cireuit Court of Appeals held the tax inap- 
plicable to gasoline purchased outside of the State 
rather than invalid as applied to gasoline used in 
interstate commerce, The limitation with respect 
to the injunction is apparently derived from the 
nature of the issues originally presented by the plead- 
ings and the respondent’s brief on appeal to the Cir- 


cenit Court of Appeals. 


If respondent is correct in its interpretation of 
the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals it is 
clear that the usual reasons for granting a petition 
for a writ of certiorvart, as outlined in Rule 38 of this 
Court, do not exist in this case. The decision of the 


Circuit Court of Appeals is not in conflict with the 


12 


decisions of other Cireuit Courts or of the Courts of 
the State of Wyoming. The decision is not in eon- 
flict with the weight of authority and no important 
question of Federal law is involved in the decision. 
The decision rests solely upon the construction placed 
upon the Wyoming Gasoline Tax Act by the Circuit 
Court. It therefore appears that no sufficient reason 


exists for a review of the case by this Court. 


Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U.S. 506. 


Point LI. 


Ir Prririoners ARE Correct IN THEIR CONTENTION 
THAT THE Cincurr Court or AppEALS Dip Houp 
INVALID THE TAX IMPOSED BY THE Wyoming Gaso- 
LINE Tax Act ON GASOLINE PURCHASED BY RE- 
SPONDENT OUTSIDE OF THE STATE OF WYOMING AND 
THEREAFTER IMPORTED INTO SAtp STATE FOR USE IN 
Ivs AIRPLANES IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE, SUCH 
Decisions Is ix Fun Accorp Wirt tHe Decisions 
or THIs Courr. 

The petitioners’ position as to the nature of the 
tax is not clear, aithough petitioners recognize that 
it isan excise tax. (See page 8 of petition and brief.) 
The Wyoming Act is similar to many state gasoline 
tax statutes in that it imposes a tax upon the sale or 
use of gasoline. If the Wyoming Gasoline Tax Act 
applies to gasoline purchased by respondent outside 


of the State of Wyoming it must attach to the use of 


VP Deefn O TT 


#4 


13 


that gasoline. Inasmuch as the gasoline was pur- 
chased by respondent outside the jurisdiction of the 
State, there is no act to which the tax may attach 


other than the use of the gasoline. 


Petitioners contend that inasmuch as the gaso- 
line purchased by respondent outside of Wyoming 
came to rest in Wyoming before it was consumed 
hy respondent’s planes, such gasoline was subject to 
the tax in question. Petitioners state that the tax 
is levied on gasoline which has acquired ‘‘a fixed situs 
within the State of Wyoming.’’ This statement is 
not supported by the language of the statutes. The 
tax is not based upon the situs of the gasoline but 


upon its sale or use. 


Respondent agrees that a State may validly im- 
pose a property tax upon property within its bor- 
ders, even though that property is used in interstate 
commerce, The respondent does in fact pay prop- 
erty taxes to the State of Wyoming on gasoline held 
hy it in that State for use in interstate commerce 
(R, 105). Furthermore, a State may impose excise 
taxes on purely intrastate transactions whieh are only 
remotely connected with interstate commerce. (See 
Kastern Air Transport, Ince. v. South Carolina Tas 
Commission et al, 285 U.S. 147.) But in the instant 
case the particular act that is taxed is the use of gaso- 


line —and that use is in interstate commerce. 


4 


rath 


2p NR STS 


Theta IO RG CR ER OS 


Bice PIS ty A Lia eS Sicadison Shoes: 


14 


The tax being imposed upon the use of gasoline, 
the fact that the gasoline came to rest within the 
State of Wyoming is unimportant. Irrespective of 
where the gasoline was situated at the time it was 
placed in the planes of respondent, the tax did not 
attach until that gasoline was actually used. Inas- 
much as the use of that gasoline was in interstate 
commerce, the tax constituted an unlawful burden 
upon that commerce, under the decisions of this 
Court. 


In the case of Helson v. Kentucky, 279 U.S. 245, 
decided by this Court in 1929, the plaintiffs in error 
operated a ferry boat on the Ohio River between 
Kentucky and Illinois, doing an exclusively inter- 
state business. The gasoline which was used to oper- 
ate the ferry boat was purchased in the State of 
Illinois, but about seventy-five per cent of it was 
consumed in the State of Kentucky. Under the Ken- 
tucky Jaw a tax was imposed upon the sale or use 
of gasoline within the borders of the State. This 
Court, in holding that the imposition of this tax upon 
the use of gasoline within the State of Kentucky con- 
stituted an unlawful burden upon interstate com- 


meree, said: 


“The tax is exacted as the price of the privi- 
lege of using an instrumentality of interstate 
commerce. It reasonably cannot be distinguished 
from a tax for using a locomotive or a car em- 


15 


ployed in such commerce. A tax laid upon the 
use of the ferryboat would present an exact par- 
allel. And is not the fuel consumed in propelling 
the boat an instrumentality of commerce no less 
than the boat itself? A tax which falls directly 
upon the use of one of the means by which com- 
merce is carried on directly burdens that com- 
merce. If a tax cannot be laid by a state upon 
the interstate transportation of the subjects of 
commerce, as this Court definitely has held, it 
is little more than repetition to say that such a 


tax cannot be laid upon the use of a medium by 
which such transportation is effected. ‘All re- 
traints by exactions in the form of taxes upon 
such transportation or upon acts necessary to its 
completion, are so many invasions of the exelu- 
sive power of Congress to regulate that portion 
of commerce between the states.’ Gloucester 

Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S. 214, 29 L. 

Kd. 165, 1 Inters. Com. Rep. 382, 5 Sup. Ct. Rep. 

826.”’ 

Petitioners, in their brief, have referred to the 
case of HRastern Air Transport, Ine., v. South Caro- 
lina Tar Commission et al., 285 U.S. 147. In that 
case this Court sustained a tax on the sale of gaso- 
line, although the gasoline was thereafter used in 
propelling airplanes in interstate commerce. It was 
held that the sale was purely a local transaction and 
the effect of the tax on such commerce was no greater 


vr different than a general property tax upon the 


16 


same property would be. This Court recognized, how- 
ever, that a general property tax or a tax upon purely 
local sales is manifestly different from a tax ‘‘laid 
directly upon the use of gasoline in interstate trans- 
portation.’? In the Eastern Air Transport case this 
Court recognized and approved the rule laid down in 
Helson v. Kentucky that a tax imposed upon the use 
of gasoline, when that use is in interstate commerce, 


constitutes an unlawful burden upon that commerce. 


The petitioners also refer to the case of Gregg 
Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U.S. 472. In this ease a 
tax Was sustained upon the use of gasoline purchased 
outside of the State and imported for use in a elean- 
ing business earried on solely within the State. LHow- 
ever, this Court recognized that a tax imposed upon 
the use of gasoline, in interstate commerce is invalid, 
saying: 

‘There is an exception in the case of a tax 
directly on use in interstate commerce as on use 
in interstate transportation. /7elson v. Keutueky, 
279 U. S. 245, 252; Kastern Air Transport v. 
South Carolina Tar Commission, decided Mareh 
14, 1932.”’ 


It cannot be questioned that under the decisions 
of this Court a tax imposed upon the use of gasoline 
in interstate commerce constitutes a violation of the 
commerce clause of the Federal constitution. If the 


petitioners are correct in their contention that the 


Reb NIE ANE OEIC: BT ae 


7 


Cireuit Court of Appeals did hold the Wyoming Gaso- 
line Tax unconstitutional with respect to gasoline pur- 
chased outside of the State, then it must be said that 
that Court was following the decisions of this Court. 
As we have heretofore stated, it is our opinion that 
the Circuit Court of Appeals does not rest its decision 
upon any constitutional ground. However, if the 
Circuit Court of Appeals did intend to pass upon 
the constitutionality of the Wyoming Gasoline Tax 
Act, as applied to gasoline purchased outside of the 
State, it was clearly correct in reaching the result 
that it did. If the Wyoming Gasoline Tax Act does 
apply to gasoline purchased outside of the State it 
must attach to the use of that gasoline and, under 
the decisions of this Court heretofore referred to, the 
tux imposed upon the use of gasoline in interstate 


commerce is clearly invalid. 


Respectfully submitted, 


JOHN W. LACEY, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming. 

ELMER E. TODD, 

FRANK E. HOLMAN, 

WILLIAM M. ALLEN, 

CLARENCE R. INNIS, 


Hoge Building, 


Seattle, Washington. Attorneys for Respondent. 


Seattle, Washington, 


Pa 
3 
ar 
i 
¥ 
= 
# 
& 
Se 
z 
x, 


TELS eRe PES egg gon 


No. 571 


Supreme Court of the 
United States 


OCTOBER TERM, 1932. 


WILLIAM H. EDELMAN, State Treasurer; HARRY 
R. WESTON, State Treasurer; THE CITY OF 
CHEYENNE, a municipal corporation; and THE 
CITY OF ROCK SPRINGS, a municipal corpo- 
ration, 

Petitioners, 

v. 
SOKING ATR TRANSPORT, INC., a corporation, 
Respondent. 


fiespondent’s Supplemental Brief 


JOHN W. LACEY, 
Cheyenne, Wyoming ; 


ELMER E. TODD, 
FRANK E. HOLMAN, 
WILLIAM M. ALLEN, 
CLARENCE R. INNIS, 


Attorneys for Respondent. 


1006 Hoge Building, 
Seattle, Washington. 


a 


a se aa sates 
vee ee net 


SUBJECT INDEX. 


RESPONDENT'S SUPPLEMENTAL BRIEF. 
Page 


THE FACT SITUATION AND THE QUESTION INVOLVED. 4 


THE DECISION OF THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS 
FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT AND ITS INTERPRETA- 


TION OF THE WYOMING STATUTE... 5 
UAE CP RI os inise che cckeschcaccceseseeteesccscccsscccsaskis, 6 
ARGUMENT ...... ny armen pores Ss iain sa vn aeniactey cnademniaoteraienso eee 


I. THE RECENT DECISION OF THIS COURT IN THE 
CASE OF THE NASH VILLE-CHATTANOOGA & ST. 
LOUIS RY. CO. v. WALLACE, NO. 176, OCTOBER 
TERM, 1932, DECIDED FEBRUARY 6, 1933, DOES 
NOT GOVERN THE CASE AT BAR............. 000-00... 7 


I. THE USE WHICH IS THE SUBJECT OF THE WYO- 
M'NG GASOLINE TAX IS NOT STORAGE OR 
1: HDRAWAL FROM STORAGE, BUT ACTUAL 
CONSUMPTION IN OPERATION OF RESPOND. 
ENT’S PLANES IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE 
AND, UNDER THE DECISION OF HELSON y, KEN- 
TUCKY, 279 U. 8. 245, A TAX UPON SUCH USE 
CONSTITUTES AN UNLAWFUL BURDEN UPON 
TORE SE re i ee ec 10 


IW. THE ACT UNDER WHICH THIS TAX IS IMPOSED 
IS PURELY A REVENUE MEASURE AND ITS IM- 
POSITION UPON THE USE OF GASOLINE BY THE 
RESPONDENT'S PLANES IN INTERSTATE COM- 
MERCE IS IN NO SENSE AN EXACTION OF COM- 
PENSATION FOR THE USE OF THE CHEYENNE 
AND ROCK SPRINGS ATRPORTS 00000... 16 
(A) The power to exact compensation for the use 
of municipal airports is in the municipality owning 
the airport and is not in the State of Wyoming......... 18 
(B) There is no sufficient relation between the 
gasoline tax and the use made of the airports to 
justify holding that the tax is a charge made merely 
as compensation for such use... ceeeeccecceceeeeeee. 19 


Te a a eli - 


INDEX—Continued 


Page 


IV. IX THE TAX IMPOSED ON GASOLINE TAKEN 
INTO RESPONDENT'S PLANES ON THE CHEY- 
ENNE AIRPORT FOR USE IN INTERSTATE COM- 
MERCE IS CONSTRUED AS AN EXACTION OF 
COMPENSATION FOR THE USE OF THE CHEY- 
ENNE AIRPORT, IT IS IN VIOLATION OF SEC- 
TION 10, ARTICLE I, OF THE CONSTITUTION OF 
THE UNITED STATES BECAUSE IT IMPAIRS THE 
OBLIGATION OF THAT CONTRACT BETWEEN 
THE RESPONDENT AND THE CITY OF CHEY.- 
ENNE DATED JULY 1, 1929, AND ENTERED INTO 
PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE DATE OF THE STAT- 


UTE UNDER WHICH THE TAX IS IMPOSED............ 23 
CONCLUSION ............ Seana cree een eh ale Ga eighth caches 26 
TABLE OF CASES CITED: 

Sy ts a I IN sonic cinccsabiesaniecasnanimadcaseahiabacioinae 12 
Boise Artesian H. & C. Water Co. v. Boise City, 230 U.S. 84.. 25 
Bowman vy. Continental Oil Co., 256 U.S. 642.0000... 14 
Carondelet Canal Co. v. Louisiana, 233 U.S. 3620000000000... 26 
Coolidge v. Loomg, 262 U. &. SGB...................ccccccsseescescccsccsersensees 26 
Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518..0..0..0........... 26 
Eastern Air Transport v. South Carolina Tax Comm., 285 
STI WI sl tetas erat nten see dcsceemincbercingniencee 15, 16 
Hart Refineries v. Harmon, 278 U.S. 4992000000000... Set ike 14 
Helson v. Kentucky, 279 U.S. 2452000000000... 6, 8, 10, 14, 16, 26 
Interstate Transit, Inc. v. Lindsey, 283 U.S. 183.....0000.0........ 19 
Murray v. Charleston, 96 U.S. 432..0000.0........0....cccccscssssseesesees 26 
Sprout v. Bowtie Bond, S77 U7. B. BOB... cos secssecesccessncesnsasseee 22 
State Freight Tax Case, 15 Wall. 232.220.000.000 14 
The Nashville-Chattanooga & St. Louis Ry. Co. v. Wal- 

lace, No. 176, October Term, 1932 

I Is iy ID esate nccnctsnnsvsen career lbunis 6, 7, 14, 15, 16 
TABLE OF STATUTES CITED: 

$10, Art. I of L II ocaspcplicctcrretiiah endlich cau 7, 24, 27 
Wyoming Session Laws, 1923 to 1929, inel... Appendix 


ret 


ie 


LL HST SII TER ST BORO AFF LDN IS, 
‘by 
4 


No. 571 


Supreme Court of the 
United States 


OCTOBER TERM, 1932. 


WILLIAM H. EDELMAN, State Treasurer; HARRY 
R. WESTON, State Treasurer; THE CITY OF 
CHEYENNE, a municipal corporation; and THE 
CITY OF ROCK SPRINGS, a municipal corpo- 


ration, 
Petitioners, 
v. 
BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., a corporation, 
Respondent. 


Respondent's Supplemental Brief 


This brief is a supplement to the brief for the 
respondent in opposition to the petition for a writ of 
coptiorari heretofore submitted to this Court. All 
references herein will be to the paging of the printed 
record in this Court and will be marked with the let- 
ter “BR.” 


$0) 
~ 
a 
¥ 
3 
ba 
‘ 
4 
4 
= | 


Beeie aig “ef lend Sag ies OS ERR SHASTA TAILS 


THE FACT SITUATION AND THE QUESTION 
INVOLVED. 


Respondent, BOEING AIR TRANSPORT, INC., 
is engaged in transportation in interstate commerce 
by airplane (R. 89). It uses two municipally-owned 
airports in the State of Wyoming (R. 68-100). Gaso- 
line is the fuel used for propelling the airplanes (R. 
89, 102). Boeing Air Transport, Inec., purchases its 
gasoline both inside and outside the State of Wyoming 
and maintains storage facilities at the airports (R. 97). 
A small amount of local transportation business is car- 
ried on, but the gasoline used in the local business ean- 
not be separated from that used in the interstate com- 
merce business (R. 89, 94, 95, 102). A small amount 
of gasoline is sold by Boeing Air Transport, Inc., at 
the airports to other users (R. 90, 100). Some gaso- 
line is used for testing and washing motors and for 
automobiles (R. 93). The balance of the gasoline is 
used for flights from the airports at Cheyenne and 
Rock Springs, in Wyoming, to points outside that State 
(R. 93, 103). The gasoline so used is the basis of the 
controversy before this Court (R. 5-6, 44, 93). 


The question involved on this review of the judg- 
ment of the Cireuit Court of Appeals for the Tenth 
Circuit is simply this: Can the respondent Boeing 
Air Transport, Inec., be required to pay to the State 


of Wyoming, under the present statute, a tax meas- 


’ wee ra aga 
SC ORERARE TINIE DRL Ra ALE AIOE IE ARATE OR TE LIE RICE 1 co 


SR raat tail ete 2 Poa Wee CIRCA ESE BTGERS NANT RR LOGUE IIL LT Na 
PRR RR aincte et AOE HANI ei : - 
Y 


5 


: ured by the quantity of gasoline imported by it and 
used for flights from points in Wyoming to points in 
other States? 


The Wyoming statute in question is set out in an 
appendix to the petition for a writ of certiorari, but, 
as so set out, does not include the titles of the various 
Acts and does not show the relation of the various 
amendments to the original Act. For this reason we 
are setting out in an appendix to this brief the Acts 


as passed by the Wyoming legislature. 


THE DECISION OF THE CIRCUIT COURT OF 
APPEALS FOR THE TENTH CIRCUIT AND 
ITS INTERPRETATION OF THE WYO- 
MING STATUTE. 


Respondent contended in its brief in opposition 
to the petition for writ of certiorari that the Circuit 
Court of Appeals did not hold the Wyoming Gasoline 
Tax invalid with respect to gasoline purchased by re- 
spondent outside of Wyoming. It is respondent’s 
opinion that the Circuit Court took the view that the 
Wyoming Gasoline Tax Act did not apply with respect 
to such gasoline. Petitioners in their supplemental 


brief have made no attempt to reply to this contention. 


Respondent respectfully directs this Court’s at- 


tention to Point I of the Argument in respondent’s 


8 
| 
$ 
| 


Sh ee RAC RESO S 


TE hot Meh 2 


WIE SEES RES ie BY: 


PAR Shs A. 


aie ote 


Bis DABS OS 


pieern' 


6 
brief in opposition to the petition wherein this con- 
tention is set forth. Hereinafter this brief will be in 
answer to petitioners’ arguments which assume that 
the Cireuit Court of Appeals did in fact hold the 
Wyoming Act invalid with respect to gasoline pur- 
chased by respondent outside of Wyoming. 


SUMMARY OF ARGUMENT. 


I. The recent decision of this Court in the ease of 
The Nashville-Chattanooga d& St. Louis Ry. Co. v. 
Wallace, No. 176, October Term, 1932, decided Febru- 
ary 6, 1933, does not govern the case at bar. 


II. The use which is the subject of the Wyoming 
Gasoline Tax is not storage or withdrawal from stor- 
age, but actual consumption in operation of respond- 
ent’s planes in interstate commerce, and, under the 
decision of Helson v. Kentucky, 279 U.S. 245, a tax 
upon such use constitutes an unlawful burden upon 


that commerce. 


III. The Act under which this tax is imposed is 
purely a revenue measure and its imposition upon the 
use of gasoline by the respondent’s planes in interstate 
commerce is in no sense an exaction of compensation 
for the use of the Cheyenne and Rock Springs airports. 


IV. If the tax imposed on gasoline taken into 


respondent’s planes on the Cheyenne airport for use 


"eens 


7 


in interstate commerce is construed as an exaction of 
compensation for the use of the Cheyenne airport, 
it is in violation of Section 10, Article I, of the Con- 
stitution of the United States because it impairs the 
obligation of that contract between the respondent 
and the City of Cheyenne dated July 1, 1929, and en- 
tered into prior to the effective date of the statute 


under which the tax is imposed. 


ARGUMENT. 


A 
THe Recent Decision or THis Court in THE Case OF 
Tur NaAsHVILLE-CHaATraNnooGa & Sr. Louis Ry. Co. 
v. WaLiace, No. 176, OcropeR TerRM, 1932, De- 
cCIpED FEBRUARY 6, 1933, Dors Nor Govern THE 
Case aT Bar. 

In petitioner’s supplemental brief great reliance 
is placed upon The Nashville-Chattanooga & St. Louis 
Ry. Co.v. Roy C. Wallace, Comptroller, et al., No. 176, 
a decision of this Court announced February 6, 1933. 
In this ease a tax imposed upon the storage and with- 
drawal from storage of gasoline was upheld, although 
the gasoline, after its withdrawal from storage, was 
used in interstate commerce. A sharp distinction was 
drawn between a tax imposed upon a transaction c«om- 
pleted prior to the use of gasoline in interstate com- 
meree, and a tax upon the use of the gasoline. It was 
held that since the storage and withdrawal from stor- 


age of gasoline was completed prior to its use in inter- 


LAA PDE ION Ay BBA et Mh 


8 


state commerce, the tax did not impose an unlawful 
burden upon that commerce. This Court said: 


“The power to tax property, the sum of all 
the rights and powers incident to ownership, neces- 
sarily includes the power to tax its constituent ele- 
ments. See Bromley v. McCaughn, 280 U.S. 124, 
136-138. Hence, there can be no valid objection to 
the taxation of the exercise of any right or power 
incident to appellant’s ownership of the gasoline, 
which falls short of a tax directly imposed on 
its use in interstate commerce, deemed forbidden 
in Helson v. Kentucky, supra. Here the tax is im- 
posed on the successive exercise of two of those 
powers, the storage and withdrawal from storage 
of the gasoline. Both powers are completely exer- 
cised before use of the gasoline in interstate com- 
merce begins. The tax imposed upon their exercise 
is therefore not one imposed on the use of the 
gasoline as an instrument of commerce and the 
burden of it is too indirect and remote from thie 
function of interstate commerce itself to trans- 
gress constitutional limitations. See Eastern Air 


7 99 


Transport v. Tar Commission, 285 U.S. 147. 


The doctrine of Helson v. Kentucky, 279 U.S. 
245, that a tax upon the use of gasoline in interstate 
commerce is an unlawful burden upon that commerce 


was again approved by this Court, as follows: 


‘*‘We cannot say that the tax is a forbidden 
burden on interstate commerce because appellant 
uses the gasoline, subsequent to the incidence of 
the tax, as an instrument of interstate commerce. | 
Taxes said to burden interstate commerce directly | 
when levied upon or measured by the operation 


SR ia he ig aA 0 ON SOME I RB A LCLOE LEO 


9 


of interstate commerce or gross receipts derived 

from it, are beyond the State taxing power, East 

Ohio Gas Co. v. Tax Commission, 283 U. 8. 465, 

470; Sprout v. South Bend, 277 U.8. 163, 170, 171; 

Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. 8S. 292, 

297, and a tax levied upon the use of gasoline in 

generating motive power for a ferry boat used 

exclusively in interstate commerce has been held 
to be so direct and immediate a burden on the 
commerce itself as to be invalid. Helson v. Ken- 

tucky, 279 U.S. 245." 

Petitioners’ argument, in their supplemental brief, 
resolves itself into this proposition: that inasmuch 
as the gasoline aequired by respondent outside of 
Wyoming and brought into that State for use could 
lawfully have been subjected to a tax under a statute 
similar to the Tennessee Act involved in the Wallace 
ease, therefore the tax in the instant ease is valid. The 
petitioners cite cases in support of the proposition 
that this Court will ‘‘regard the substance, rather than 
the form, and the controlling test is found in the opera- 
tion and effect of the statute as applied and enforced 
by the State.”’ We are quite in aecord with the peti- 
tioners in their desire to have this Court regard the 
substance of this Act rather than the form. How- 
ever, petitioners are in effeet asking this Court to 
amend the statute and impose a tax upon the storage 


of gasoline instead of upon its use. 


———— 


10 


Il. 


THe Use Wuicu Is THE SuBsJecT OF THE WyYomIna 
GasoLINE Tax Is Nor Srorace on WITHDRAWAL 
From StoraGe, But Actual CoNSUMPTION IN 
OPERATION OF RESPONDENT’S PLANES IN INTERSTATE 
COMMERCE AND, UNDER THE DECISION OF HELSON 
v. Kentucky, 279 U. 8S. 245, a Tax Upon Sucu User 
CoNSTITUTES AN UNLAWFUL BurpEN Upon Tuat 
CoM ™MERCE. 


The petitioners in their supplemental brief for 
the first time make the point that the subject of the 
tax in question is the storage and withdrawing from 
storage by the respondent of the gasoline used by it. 


On page 4 of their supplemental brief the petition- 
ers say: 

‘*Respondent stores and withdraws the gaso- 
line on which petitioners collect the tax. Respond- 
ent uses the gasoline at the municipal air field; 
that is, it stores and withdraws the gasoline at the 
air field. Petitioners are not taxing the use of 
gasoline in generating motive power after it is 
withdrawn from respondent’s storage tanks. If 
they were they would tax all gasoline so used from 
the time respondent’s airplanes crossed the State 
line, as was attempted in the Helson ease.’’ (Italics 
are ours. ) 


It is apparent from this quotation that the peti- 
tioners base their present position upon the facts alone 
that the respondent stores at the airports the gasoline 
which it uses, and likewise withdraws the gasoline 


which operates its planes in interstate commerce from 


that storage. The undisputed evidence as to the nature 
of the tax and the method of its collection shows clearly 


11 


ae 
*: 
oa 
% 
& 
# 


the unsoundness of petitioners’ argument. On cross- 
examination, Mr. D. B. Colyer testified (R. 100), as 
follows: 

“Our method of making the payments is as 
directed by the State. For illustration, during the 
month of June we paid the taxes on gasoline used 
during May, and these were to be paid before the 
15th of the month subsequent to that in which the 
gasoline was used. None of the tax is paid in ad- 


ranee of the use. It is all paid on the 15th of the 
month after it is used.” 


The fact that petitioners do not attempt to tax gaso- 
line in the tanks of respondent’s planes as they cross 
the Wyoming boundary lends no color to petitioners’ 
contention. It would be highly impracticable, if not 
impossible, to impose a tax on such gasoline. The fail- 
ure by the petitioners to do the impossible is hardly 
a proper aid to a construction of the statute in ques- 


tion. 


The argument now advanced on behalf of petition- 
ers does, however, serve the purpose of bringing 
sharply to the attention of the Court the crux of the 
controversy involved in this ease with respect to the 
gasoline which is imported into the State of Wyoming 
hy the respondent and used by the respondent ex- 
clusively in propelling its airplanes in interstate com- 


meree, In order to sustain the tax imposed by the 


12 


Wyoming statute upon such gasoline, it is necessary 
for the petitioners to argue that the word ‘‘use’’ and 
the words ‘‘used for domestic consumption,’’ as em- 
ployed in the statute, mean, with respect to respondent, 
the storage of gasoline and its withdrawal from stor- 
age within the State. 


The words ‘‘use’’? and ‘used for domestie con- 
sumption,’’ as employed in paragraphs 2 and 3 of the 
Wyoming statute, are apparently so employed in their 
ordinary sense. The word ‘‘use’’ alone implies an ap- 
plication of the thing itself, or, as stated by Webster, 
**the act of employing anything or applving it to one’s 
service; the state of being so employed or applied.” 
This meaning of the word ‘‘use’’ was accepted and 
applied by this Court to a statute imposing a tax 
‘‘upon the use of a foreign-built vacht’’ in the case of 
Billings v. U. S., 232 U.S. 261. The word ‘‘consump- 
tion’’ qualifies the word ‘‘use’’ in paragraph 2 of the 
statute, wherein it is provided that there is levied ‘‘a 
license tax * * * on all gasoline used or sold in this 
State for domestic consumption.’” The statute clearly 
states that the use of gasoline which is subject to the 
tax is a use for domestic consumption. The retention 
of gasoline in storage for some future disposition, or 
the mere withdrawal from storage does not result in 
the ‘‘consumption’’ of the gasoline. It is well-known 
that the gasoline tax was designed to compel the own- 


ers of motor vehicles to contribute to the construction 


SET SN ONE 


13 


and maintenance of highways. A motor vehicle uses 
gasoline by consuming it. It is absurd to contend that 
the Wyoming legislature intended to impose a tax 
upon the storage or withdrawal from storage of gaso- 
line by a statute which taxes ‘‘gasoline used for domes- 


tic consumption.”’ 


The significance of the word ‘‘use,’’ as employed 
in the Wyoming statute, is made plain by subdivision 
2 of Section 1, defining gasoline. This section provides 
that ‘‘gasoline is hereby defined as a volatile substance 
produced from petroleum * * * and such other volatile 
and inflammable liquids produced or compounded for 
the purpose of operating or propelling motor vehicles 
***?? This language indubitably indicates that at the 
time this legislation was enacted the legislature was 
thinking in terms of the operation and propulsion of 
vehicles by the generation of motive power through 
the use of gasoline. When, therefore, in the sueceed- 
ing paragraph of Section 2, the legislature imposed 
the tax on all gasoline used for domestic consumption, 
and in paragraph 3 provided for the payment of the 
tax by wholesalers upon all gasoline used by them, and 
upon every person who should use any gasoline in the 
State upon which the tax has not been paid by any 
wholesaler in the State, it meant by the word ‘‘use”’ 
such a use and such a use only as would necessarily 


result in the consumption or exhaustion of the gasoline, 


ttt 


14 


Respondent is unfamiliar with any reported de- 
cision which supports petitioners’ contention that the 
tax upon gasoline used, as imposed by the Wyoming 
statute, is not a tax upon the use of gasoline as used 
by respondent’s planes. In the cases of Bowman v. 
Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642; Hart Refineries v. 
Harmon, 278 U. 8. 499, and Helson v. Kentucky, 279 
U.S. 245, it is clear that this Court viewed a tax upon 
the use of gasoline as a tax upon its consumption. 


The petitioners attempt to distinguish the instant 
ease from Helson v. Kentucky, supra, upon the ground 
that in the instant case the gasoline came to rest within 
the State of Wyoming before its use by respondent’s 
planes in interstate commerce. The mere fact that the 
gasoline came to rest in the taxing state prior to its 
use in interstate commerce is unimportant. In State 
Freight Tar Case, 15 Wall. 232, a State tax imposed 
upon freight taken up within the State and carried out 
of it was held invalid. The fact that the property on 
which the tax was imposed originated within the tax- 
ing State did not validate the tax. Likewise, in the 
instant case, the tax is not based upon the situs of the 
gasoline but upon its use and that use is in interstate 


commerce. 


Tt is true that in this Court’s recent decision in 
The Nashville C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Wallace, No. 176, 


decided February 6, 1933, it is said that where gasoline 


has come to rest in storage the State is free to tax it 


15 


as it would any other property in the State, notwith- 
standing its prospective use as an instrument of inter- 
state commerce. It is further said that the power to 
tax property, which means the taxation of the sum of 
all the rights and powers incident to ownership, neces- 
sarily includes also the power to tax its constituent 
elements. The Court, however, plainly says, in exactly 
the same connection, that these principles do not con- 
fer upon the State the right to tax property, or the 
elements of property, by a tax directly imposed upon 
the use of the property in interstate commerce. 


The tax imposed by the Tennessee Act involved 
in the ease of The Nashville, ete., Ry. Co. v. Wallace, 
supra, was expressly a privilege tax imposed upon 
persons and corporations ‘‘engaged in or carrying on 
the business * * * of selling or storing or distributing 
gasoline * * *.’’ Insofar as the tax was imposed upon 
persons engaged in storing gasoline, it was measured 
by the amount withdrawn from storage, whether such 
withdrawal was for sale or other use. Hence, the tax 
was distinctly imposed upon a privilege connected with 
the ownership of property, which in and of itself could 
be completely exercised before any use was made of 
the gasoline in interstate commerce; as could also the 
privilege of selling gasoline which was the subject of 
the tax in Eastern Air Transport v. South Carolina 
Tar Comm., 285 U. S. 147. But, as has been pointed 
out above, the Wyoming statute does not attempt t 


PETES DEON GIT IRS R 


ttre 


PRAT SY 


AOA TRIES TEES INTE —— 


16 


impose the tax upon the storage of gasoline or its 
withdrawal from storage. Except for the tax on gaso- 
line sold, it is only the use which is taxed, and this 
‘‘use,’? as applied to the gasoline placed by the re- 
spondent in its airplanes at the airports in the State 
of Wyoming for propelling said airplanes in carrying 
on respondent’s interstate commerce business, can 
mean only the use of such gasoline in interstate com- 
merce. The case at bar is therefore within the princi- 
ple of Helson v. Kentucky, 279 U.S. 245, and not with- 
in the principle of Easiern Air Transport v. South 
Carolina Tar Commission, 285 U.S. 147, or The Nash- 
ville, etc. Ry. Co. v. Wallace, decided February 6, 1933. 


ITT. 


THE Acr Unper Wuicuh Tuis Tax Is Imposep Is 
PurRELY A REVENUE MEASURE AND Its IMPpost- 
TION Upon THE USE OF GASOLINE BY THE RE- 
SPONDENT’S PLANES IN INTERSTATE COMMERCE Is 
IN No SENSE AN EXACTION OF COMPENSATION FOR 
THE USE OF THE CHEYENNE AND Rock SPRINGS 
ATRPORTS. 


In the supplemental brief of petitioners the fol- 


lowing statement appears: 


“The District Judge sustained the tax as com- 
pensation to the cities for the facilities furnished 
and their outlay in maintenance and upkeep of 
the air fields. We do not deem it necessary to 
cite additional authorities to those relied on by 
him. He having found the compensation reason- 


teariicr teat oP RRS 


See OEP EL DTI IED, 


17 


able, we think this finding will be accepted by this 

Court (R. 126-131).”’ 

In their brief and argument before the Cireuit 
Court of Appeals petitioners practically abandoned 
their contention that the tax in question was in effect 
an exaction of compensation for the use of the Chey- 
enne and Rock Springs Airports. The Circuit Court 
of Appeals did not rest its decision upon any such 
ground. In petitioners’ petition for rehearing before 
the Cireuit Court of Appeals no mention was made of 
this contention. In their brief filed in this Court in 
support of their petition for writ of certiorari the 
point was not suggested. However, in view of the 
fact that petitioners have raised the point in their 
supplemental brief, respondent feels compelled to 
point out briefly to this Court the reasons why there is 
no merit in the contention. 

The Distriet Court held that since the proceeds 
of the tax on gasoline collected at any municipal 
field were returned by the State to the municipal- 
ity for the purpose of maintaining and improving 
the field, the tax was in effect an exaction of compensa- 
tion for the use of the field. For the reasons herein- 
after assigned, respondent submits that the tax was 
a true tax and in no sense an exaction of compensation 
for the use of the Cheyenne and Rock Springs air- 


ports. 


: 
2 


7 


Ese 


abe: 


BS TURE REE 


Pree. 


18 


A, Tue Power To Exact COMPENSATION FOR THE Use 
or MunicipaL Atrports Is IN THE MUNICIPALITY 
OWNING THE AIRPORT AND IS NoT IN THE STATE OF 
WYOMING. 

By Section 5 of Chapter 72 of the Session Laws 
of 1927, the State of Wyoming authorized and em- 
powered municipal corporations to acquire lands for 
airport purposes and to lease or let any such airport 
upon terms deemed satisfactory. Pursuant to this 
power conferred on municipalities, the cities of Chey- 
enne and Rock Springs aequired airports and there- 
after entered into leases with respondent. whereby, in 
consideration of certain fixed rentals am. other eoven- 
ants to be performed by the respomdent. the mon- 
exclusive use of the landing tields was granted to the 
respondent (R. 69, 80). The cities of Cheyenne and 
Rock Springs having acquired airports pursuant to 
legislative act, it would seem elear that only those cities 
could fix the compensation to be paid for the use of 
the airports. It is also clear that the legislature, havy- 
ing granted power to the cities to lease their airports 
upon terms deemed satisfactory, did not intend, by 
the gasoline tax act, to prescribe the compensation to 


be paid for the use of the airports. 


The power to exact compensation for the use of 
the Cheyenne and Rock Springs airports was in the 
cities owning those airports. The gasoline tax in ques- 


tion was exacted by the State of Wyoming. The cities, 


FESS ITT SCAN DRDO PVT rhe MER NN et alienate . aE 


PO GRR aR PE ROT ED 


19 


having acquired the airports, alone had the power to 
determine the compensation to be paid for their use. 
The conclusion must follow that the State of Wvyo- 
ming, in imposing the gasoline tax, was not seeking 
to exact compensation for the use of facilities entirely 
under the control of the cities of Cheyenne and Rock 


Springs. 


B. THERE Is No SUFFICIENT RELATION BETWEEN THE 
JFASOLINE TAX AND THE USE MADE OF THE AIRPORTS 
ro JusTiIFY HoLpInc THAT THE Tax Is A CHARGE 
MaprE MERELY AS COMPENSATION FOR Sucu UskE. 


This Court has, on several occasions, rejected the 
contention that a certain tax was an exaction of com- 
pensation for the use of a facility when it appeared 
that there was no necessary relationship between the 


payment of the tax and the use of the facility. 


The ease of Interstate Transit, Ine. v. Lindsey, 
283 U. 8. 183, is particularly applicable to the ease 
at bar. In this case there was involved a tax levied 
by the State of Tennessee upon concerns operating 
interstate motor buses upon the highways of the State, 
graduated according to carrving capacity. It was held 
that the tax was invalid because there was not a suffi- 
cient relationship between the measure employed and 
the extent or manner of use of the State highwavs 


such as would justify a holding that the tax was a 


ERAS PR VALE PUB LA ROMER AL TSP ADRES NEW ie Pe OT < Seale SRR 


S 


charge made merely as compensation for the use of 
the highways by interstate buses. This Court said: 


‘*But since a State may demand of one carry- 
ing on an interstate bus business only fair com- 
: pensation for what it gives, such imposition, al- 
though termed a tax, cannot be tested by standards 
which generally determine the validity of taxes. 
Being valid only if compensatory, the charge must 
be necessarily predicated upon the use made, or 
to be made, of the highways of the state. Clark v. 
Poor, 274 U.S. 554, supra. In the present act the 
amount of the tax is not dependent upon such use. 
It does not rise with an increase in mileage trav- 
elled, or even with the number of passengers ac- 
tually carried on the highways of the State. Nor 
is it related to the degree of wear and tear inci- 
dent to the use of motor vehicles of different sizes 
and weights, except insofar as this is indirectly 
affected by carrying capacity. The tax is propor- 
tioned solely to the earning capacity of the vehicle. 
Accordingly, there is here no sufficient relation 
between the measure employed and the erte t or 
manner of use, to justify holding that the tar 
was a charge made merely as compensation for the 
use of the highways by interstate buses. We need 
not therefore consider whether the tax exacted 
from this appellant is unreasonably large or un- 
justly discriminatory.”’ (Italies are curs.) 


it GARR Se seers 


As this Court clearly states in the foregoing case, 
in order to render valid a burden upon interstate com- 
meree as a charge for the use of a facility, it must ap- 


pear that the charge made is necessarily predicated 


upon the use of the facility. 


“ WSMhieho od Sa bn SSS ’ aeons ONT at os aadldiaeiee iene) 


21 


Although it may be urged that the more respond- 
ent uses the fields of Cheyenne and Rock Springs, the 
more gasoline it will use, and, consequently, the greater 
its tax, nevertheless such a statement can be nothing 
more than a rough approximation. There is no neces- 
sary connection between the amount of the tax and the 
amount of use of the airport by the person paving 


the tax. 


As an illustration, compare the use made of the 
Chevenne airport by the respondent with that by a 
company that does not engage in interstate commerce, 
but simply makes local flights from the airport. On its 
eastbound trips the respondent lands at Cheyenne and 
places sufficient gasoline in its tanks to carry the 
planes to at least its next stop, which is North Platte, 
Nebraska, and on its westbound trips the plane lands 
at Chevenne and sufficient gasoline is placed in its 
tanks to carry it to Rock Springs (R. 101). Obviously, 
the respondent’s planes will not land at the Cheyenne 
airport as often as they would if respondent did a sim- 
ilar amount of flying in a local business with practically 
all of its landings upon the Cheyenne field. It appears 
from the evidence that there is a company using the 
Cheyenne field engaged in a purely local business (R. 
100). Undoubtedly, this company pays much less in 
taxes in proportion to the amount that it uses the field 
than does respondent. Similar inequalities must nec- 


essarily result from the fact that the amount of the 


Bice: IESE Los ANE BES TE OBE CO BEALL DA AE TEI NA SOE TL Le LO Ul GN via on 


AL EIR a en Lg Me AO “oe ~~ 7 


tax is not at all dependent upon the amount of use that 


the taxpayer makes of the airport. 


It is clear from the foregoing that a tax or charge 
which is not in some reasonable manner measured by 
the use of the facility cannot be regarded as compensa- 
tion for such use. To this effect was the decision in 
the ease of Sprout v. South Bend, 277 U.S. 163, where- 
in this Court held invalid a license fee imposed by the 
City of South Bend upon motor buses using the city 
streets, the Court saying: 

‘*A flat tax, substantial in amount and _ the 
same for buses plying the streets continuously in 
local service and for buses making, as do many 
interstate buses, only a single trip daily, could 


hardly have been designed as a measure of the 
cost or value of the highways.”’ 


In the instant case the existence of leases between 
the Cities of Chevenne and Rock Springs and the re- 
spondent, wherein the respondent is granted the right 
to use the municipal airports of those cities upon the 
payment by respondent of certain rentals, is further 
proof that there is no sufficient relation between the 
tax and the use made of the airports by the respondent 
to justify a holding that the tax is a charge for the use 


of the airports. 


I> pen Sy Tl wee = Tz “+ oe SOI Ngee ea 


ay. 


Ir THE TaX IMPOSED ON GASOLINE TAKEN INTO ReE- 
SPONDENT’Ss PLANES ON THE CHEYENNE AIRPORT 
ror Use rx INTERSTATE CoMMERCE Is ConsTRUED 
AS AN EXACTION OF COMPENSATION FOR THE USE oF 
THE CHEYENNE AIRPORT, Ir Is IN VIOLATION OF 
Section 10, ARTICLE I, OF THE CONSTITUTION OF 
THE UniTep STATES Because It IMPAIRS THE OBLI- 
GATION OF THAT ConTRACT BETWEEN THE RESPOND- 
ENT AND THE City OF CHEYENNE Datep JULY 1, 
1929, aND ENTERED INTO PRIOR TO THE EFFECTIVE 
DaTE OF THE STATUTE UNDER WHICH THE Tax Is 
TMPOSED. 


Certain provisions of the lease between the City 
of Cheyenne and the respondent, appearing in full on 


pages 80-89 of the Record, are hereinafter summarized : 
(1) Term: 25 years, commencing July 1, 1929. 


(2) The Company agrees to pay an annual rental 
of $4050 for a certain hangar and space for 
the ereetion of an additional hangar. 


(3) Paragraph 14 provides: 


“The City agrees that the Boeing Company 
shall be entitled to the full use of said munici- 
pal fie'd and landing field during the term 
hereof on terms as favorable as may _ be 
granted by the City to any other user thereof, 
and that no charge shall be exacted from the 
Boeing Company for any use which it may 
make thereof additional to that herein spe- 
cifically provided.”’ (Italics are ours.) 


PR Cera TTY a AME eae Nene eT er Me RS Te wt wearer Rane ate e Mya me Te ah Ce a Nie eT ey OM Tet fa ry 


RoC SA I MERINO 


24 


(4) And paragraph 20 provides that the City will 
‘‘impose no charge of any kind or character 
upon materials and/or products purchased or 
otherwise acquired by the Boeing Company 
for use on the premises herein leased.”’ 


It is important to bear in mind that the above lease 
was entered into approximately six months prior to 
the date upon which the Tax Act was amended to give 
municipalities the taxes upon gasoline collected at their 
airports. Prior to this amendment there was no pos- 
sible basis for a contention that the tax was in the 
nature of an exaction of compensation for the use of 
airports. We therefore have a situation wherein the 
City of Cheyenne, after agreeing upon a fixed compen- 
sation for the use of its airport, claims that it is en- 
titled to additional compensation by reason of legisla- 
tion passed subsequent to the date of its agreement. 
It is at once clear that the imposition of this tax as 
compensation for the use of the airport would consti- 
tute a violation of Section 10 of Article I of the Con- 
stitution of the United States. The obligation of the 
City of Cheyenne to give the respondent the use of 
the airport under the terms provided in the lease 
would be substantially impaired if the City was al- 
lowed to exact compensation from the respondent in 


addition to that provided for in the lease. 


Decisions of this Court make it clear that the ex- 


action of compensation in addition to that provided 


RRR SARA ESE Ue ne os aerate 


25 


in the lease would constitute an impairment of the 
obligation of contract. 


In the ease of Boise Artesian H. d& C. Water Co. 
v. Boise City, 230 U. S. 84, the City had granted a 
franchise authorizing the laying of water pipes in the 
streets of the city, without exacting any compensation 
therefor. The franchise was accepted and the grantees 
and their successors invested a large amount of money 
in the construction of a water system for the purpose 
of supplying inhabitants of the city with water. Sub- 
sequently, the City enacted an ordinance requiring the 
Water Company to pay a license fee of $300 a month 
for the privilege of laying and maintaining its water 
pipes in the streets. This Court held that the ordinance 
imposing the license fee impaired the obligation of the 
franchise contract under which the water pipes were 


maintained in the streets, and was therefore void. 


In the above case there was no express provision 
in the ordinance prohibiting the imposition of addi- 
tional charges. In the instant case the impairment of 
the obligation of contract is even more apparent than 
in the above case because the respondent and the City 
of Cheyenne expressly agreed that no additional 
charges for the use of the airport would be imposed. 
If the tax imposed on gasoline taken into respondent’s 
planes on the Cheyenne airport for use in interstate 


commerce is construed as an exaction of compensation 


Ce A 


POS! RE SSE EE SOG AIEEE MM MES pM ty 


2 


Petts ids ate ghee Ey es erecting xt 


2 IP DERE LAIR, Se . 


26 


for the use of that airport, the imposition of the tax 
unquestionably impairs the obligation of that contract 
between the respondent and the City of Cheyenne, 
dated July 1, 1929, and entered into prior to the effec- 


tive date of the statute under which the tax is imposed. 


Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheat. 518; 
Murray v. Charleston, 96 U.S. 432; 
Coolidge v. Long, 282 U.S. 582; 


Carondelet Canal Co. v. Louisiana, 233 U. S. 
362. 


CONCLUSION. 


The Circuit Court of Appeals was of the opinion 
that the Wyoming tax did not apply to gasoline 
brought into Wyoming by respondent for use in re- 
spondent’s planes in interstate commerce. If the view 
of the Cireuit Court is adopted by this Court, the 
necessity of a decision upon the validity of the Wvo- 
ming statute, as applied to such gasoline, is avoided. 
If the tax does apply to such gasoline, it falls upon 
the use of the gasoline in interstate commerce. It is 
clear from the language of the statute and the facts 
in this case that it is the actual consumption of the 
gasoline upon which the tax is imposed. Under the 
decision of Helson v. Kentucky, supra, such a tax im- 


poses an unlawful burden upon interstate commerce. 


The contention raised by the petitioners, but not 


pressed, that the tax in question is an exaction of 


. ee 4 
rst aece ite 
ee a 


27 


compensation for the use of the municipal airports at 
Cheyenne and Rock Springs, is without merit. The 
power to exact compensation for the use of these air- 
ports is in the municipalities owning them and not in 
the State of Wyoming. Furthermore, under the de- 
cisions of this Court, there is not a sufficient relation 
between the tax and the use made of the airports to jus- 
tify holding that the tax is a charge made merely as 
compensation for such use. In any event, if the tax is 
construed as an exaction of compensation for the use 
of the Cheyenne Airport it is in violation of Section 10 
of Article I of the Constitution of the United States, 
because it impairs the obligation of the lease between 
the respondent and the City of Cheyenne entered into 
prior to the effective date of the statute under which 


the tax is imposed. 


Respectfully submitted, 


JOHN W. LACEY, 


Cheyenne, Wyoming, 


ELMER E. TODD, 

FRANK E. HOLMAN, 
WILLIAM M. ALLEN, 
CLARENCE R. INNIS, 


Seattle, Washington, 


Attorneys for Respondent, 


2 OS aD 


eee 


2 eS 


SOA 


SoH Re NTI 


APPENDIX 
SESSION LAWS OF WYOMING, 1923. 
CHAPTER 73 
HOUSE BILL NO. 70. 
GASOLINE TAX. 


AN ACT providing a license tax on gasoline, providing 
for the collection thereof, defining certain words or 
phrases, prescribing manner and methods of payment, 
fixing penalties for failure to make same, and provid- 
ing for the disposition of said taxes. 


BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE 
STATE OF WYOMING: 


DEFINITIONS. 

Section 1. The words and phrases used in this Act 
shall be construed for the purpose thereof, as follows: (1) 
‘*Wholesaler’’ is hereby defined as any person, firm or cor- 
poration who imports or causes to be imported gasoline, 
as herein defined, for sale in the State of Wyoming to the 
jobber or consumer, or to the persons, firms, corporations 
or associations of persons, who, in turn, sell to the jobber 
or consumer. The term ‘‘wholesaler’’ is further defined 
to mean any person, firm or corporation who produces, re- 
fines, manufacturers, blends or compounds gasoline in the 
State of Wyoming for use, sale or distribution in this State. 
(2) ‘*Gasoline’’ is hereby defined as the volatile substance 
produced from petroleum, natural gas, oil shales or coal, 
heretofore sold under the name of gasoline, and such other 
volatile and inflammable liquids produced or compounded 
for the purpose of operating or propelling motor vehicles, 


except the product commonly known as kerosene. 


29 


AMOUNT OF TAX. 

Section 2. A license tax of one cent per gallon is here- 
by levied on all gasoline sold in this State after March 1, 
1923, for domestic consumption, to be collected as herein- 
after set forth: 


REPORT—PAYMENT OF TAX. 

Section 3. On and after May Ist, 1923, each and every 
wholesaler as defined in this Act, who is now engaged or 
who may hereafter engage in his own name, or in the name 
of others, or in the name of his representatives or agents, 
in this State, in the sale or use of gasoline as herein de- 
fined, shall not later than the fifteenth of each month render 
to the State Treasurer a statement of all gasoline sold or 
used by them in the State of Wyoming during the preced- 
ing calendar month, and pay to the State Treasurer at the 
same time, the license tax of one cent per gallon on all 
such gasoline. Said statement to the State Treasurer shall 
he upon blanks furnished by him, and shall be sworn to 
by the owner or managing agent in the ease of an indi- 
vidual, firm, or association, by the resident general agent 
or attorney, in the case of a foreign corporation, or by one 


of the principal officers in the case of domestic corporation. 


RECORD BY WHOLESALER. 

Section 4. Every wholesaler in gasoline as in this Act 
defined shall keep a record of all purchases, receipts, sales 
and distribution of gasoline; such records shall at all times 
he subject to inspection by the State Treasurer or his dep- 
uties or such other officers duly authorized by the State 
Treasurer. 

FUNDS USED FOR MAINTENANCE OF TLIGHWAYS. 

Section 5. All funds received by the State Treasurer 


from the gasoline license tax provided in this Act, shall be 


| 


+ oon 
30 


placed to the credit of the State Highway Fund for main- 
tenance, and shall be apportioned between the several coun- 
ties of the State in proportion to the number of miles of 
designated State Highways therein. 


VIOLATION—PENALTY, 

Section 6. It shall be unlawful for any such wholesaler, 
as herein defined, of gasoline, or other products subject to 
said tax, to sell or offer the same for sale in the State of 
Wyoming while delinquent in the payment of the whole or 
any part of the tax due and payable hereunder, and any 
such wholesaler who fails or refuses to pay the tax herein- 
before provided for at the time the same becomes due, shall 
be liable for double the amount thereof to be recovered in 
a suit instituted by and in the name of the State of Wyo- 
ming in any court of competent jurisdiction, in which suit, 
upon application made by the State of Wyoming, a writ of 
injunction may be issued against the defendant or defend- 
ants without requiring any bond, enjoining and restraining 
them from selling or attempting to sell or offer for sale in 
the State of Wyoming any gasoline or other products sub- 
ject to said tax, while the whole or any part of the tax due 
from such defendant remains unpaid, and in such suit the 
court may, upon application made by the State of Wyoming, 
appoint a receiver of the property and business of the de- 


fendant, for the purpose of impounding the same as secu- 
rity for the payment of said delinquent tax and any judg- 
ment recovered in said suit. The State Treasurer or his as- 
sistant or deputies shall have the right, during business 
hours, to inspect the books and records of any party sub- 
ject to said tax, for the purpose of determining the amount 
of the tax due and payable and whether the same has been 
paid. Any party violating any of the provisions of this 
Act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction 


7 Pe 


i SN il: Pa Sin we ihn OF A nates SS ple Rese Le eT ee ey as es: ties fart hv tee tear Lg 2: Sed 
Betseanct. EAS AR EG RDG ih PERL TS SERA NE ER NOISE, BETS 


SESE RR HERD AR OATS OIAS Sa GIN. OAR SRY a AAT UG DONT CRN 


31 


thereof by any court of competent jurisdiction shall be sub- 
ject to a fine of not less than five hundred dollars and not 
more than one thousand dollars, or to imprisonment for six 
months, or both such fine and imprisonment. The remedies 
herein provided shall be cumulative. 


VALIDITY. 

Section 7. The invalidity of any section, subdivision, 
paragraph, provision, sentence, or clause of this Act shall 
not in any manner effect the validity of the remaining por- 
tions thereof. 


IXCEPTION. 
Section 8. Said gasoline license tax shall not be im- 


posed on gasoline when exported or sold for exportation 
from the State of Wyoming to any other State or Nation. 


PROSECUTION. 

Section 9. Upon request of the State Treasurer, it shall 
he the duty of the Attorney General to commence and prose- 
cute to final determination in any court of competent juris- 
diction, any and all necessary action or actions at law, to 
enforce the provisions of this Act. 

Section 10, This Act shall take effect and be in force 
from and after the first day of April, 1923. 


Approved February 26, 1923. 


LOND aie er ie 


P 
‘ 
4 
‘ 
4 
4 
x 
nd 
Bid 
pia 
Pd 
a 
Bd 
sy 
t) 
o%, 
* 
AL 
3 
“> 
ae 
mR 
ict 
: 
ot 


Stan 


Betis: Pisa 


32 


SESSION LAWS OF WYOMING, 1925. 
CHAPTER 839. 
ORIGINAL HOUSE BILL NO. 13. 
GASOLINE TAX. 


AN ACT to amend and re-enact Seciions 2, 3, and 5, Chap- 
ter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923, providing a 
license tax on gasoline and providing for the disposi- 
tion of such license taxes, and display of price signs 
by dealers in gasoline and prescribing penalty for vio- 
lation, 


BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE 
STATE OF WYOMING: 
Section 1. Section 2, Chapter 73, Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1923, is hereby amended and re-enacted to read 
as follows: 


AMOUNT OF TAX. 

‘*Section 2. A license tax of two and one-half cents per 
gallon is hereby levied on all gasoline used or sold in this 
State after March 1, 1925, for domestic consumption, to be 
collected as hereinafter set forth.’’ 

Section 2. Section 3, Chapter 73, Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1923, is hereby amended and re-enacted to read 
as follows: 


COLLECTION AND STATEMENT OF AMOUNT 

COLLECTED. 

‘*Section 3. On and after March 1, 1925, each and 
every wholesaler as defined in this Act, who is now engaged 
or who may hereafter engage in his own name, or in the 
name of others, or in the name of his representatives or 
agents in this State, in the sale or use of gasoline as herein 
defined shall not later than the fifteenth of eaeh month, 


a ROE 
ea 
bi, 


ELA, PRADEEP OY SARNIA SND TERY ae 


MPI AOE LILLE LOL, SELON TE ED 


33 


render to the State Treasurer a statement of all gasoline 
sold or used by them in the State of Wyoming during the 
preceding calendar month, and pay to the State Treasurer 
at the same time, the license tax of two and one-half cents 
per gallon on all such gasoline. Said statement to the State 
Treasurer shall be upon blanks furnished by him, and shall 
be sworn to by the owner or managing agent in the case of 
an individual, firm, or association, by the resident general 
agent or attorney, in the case of a foreign corporation or 
by one of the principal officers in the case of a doinestic 
corporation. ”’ 

Section 3. Section 5, Chapter 73, Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1923, is hereby amended and re-enacted to read 


as follows: 


APPORTIONMENT OF FUNDS DERIVED. 

‘*Section 5. All funds received by the State Treasurer 
from the gasoline license tax provided in this Act, shall be 
placed to the credit of the State Highway Fund for main- 
tenance, and shall be apportioned between the several coun- 
ties of the State in proportion to the number of miles of 
designated State Highways therein.’’ 


DISPLAY OF SIGN, 

Section 4. Each retail dealer in gasoline may promi- 
nently display in a conspicuous place near the gasoline fill- 
ing pump a sign at least twelve inches square containing a 
legible and plainly printed statement in the English lan- 
guage showing the amount of State license tax and the total 
retail price per gallon of gasoline. 

Section 5. This Act shall take effect and be in force 
from and after April 1, 1925. 


Approved February 25, 1925. 


: 
ag 
ae 
Py 
is 
: 
e 
=m 
¥ 
2 
‘3 
= 
eS 
s 
i 
¥ 
re 


ahha d 


| re a Se 


SESSION LAWS OF WYOMING, 1927. 
CHAPTER 70. 
ORIGINAL HOUSE BILL NO. 638. 
GASOLINE SALES TAX. 


AN ACT to amend and re-enact Section 2 and 3, Chapter 
73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as amended and 
re-enacted by Sections 1 and 2, Chapter 89, Session 
Laws of Wyoming, 1925, and to amend and re-enact 
Section 4 of Chapter 89, Session Laws of Wyoming, 
1925, relating to display of price signs by dealers and 
providing a penalty for violation thereof; providing 
a license tax on gasoline and for the collection and 
statement of the amount of tax collected. 


Bk IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE 

STATE OF WYOMING: 

Section 1. Section 2, Chapter 73, Session Laws of Wvyo- 
ming, 1923, as amended and re-enacted by Section 1, Chap- 
ter 89, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1925, is hereby amended 
and re-enacted to read as follows: 


GASOLINE TAX. 

‘Section 2. A license tax of three cents per gallon is 
hereby levied on all gasoline used or sold in this State after 
March 1, 1927, for domestic consumption to be collected 
as hereinafter set forth.’’ 

Section 2. Section 3, Chapter 73, Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1923, as amended and re-enacted by Section 2, 
Chapter 89, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1925, is hereby 


amended and re-enacted to read as follows: 
PAYMENT OF TAX. 

‘Section 3. On and after March 1, 1927, each and every 
wholesaler as defined in this Act, who is now engaged or 


. ea rin 56x ‘ . . . p ee eae nt 
Reatoserse EAE oe nia vie ; ee et eee | 


who may hereafter engage in his own name, or in the name 
of others, or in the name of his representatives or agents in 
this State, in the sale or use of gasoline as | erein defined 
shall not later than the fifteenth of each month, render to 
the State Treasurer a statement of all gasoline sold or used 
by them in the State of Wyoming during the preceding 
calendar month, and pay to the State Treasurer at the 
same time, the license tax of three cents per gallon on all 
such gasoline. Said statement to the State Treasurer shall 
be upon blanks furnished by him, and shall be sworn to by 
the owner or managing agent in the case of an individual, 
firm or association, by the resident general agent or attor- 
ney, in the case of a foreign corporation or by one of the 
principal officers in the case of a domestic corporation. 
Every person who shall use any gasoline in this State upon 
which the said tax has not been paid by any wholesaler 
in this State, shall, on or before the 25th day of each cal- 
endar month, beginning with the second calendar month 
after this Act has become effective, render a true state- 
ment to the State Treasurer, duly signed and sworn to, and 
accompany such statement with the payment of a tax of 
three cents per gallon on all gasoline as shown by such 
statement to have been used by him.”’ 

Section 3. Section 4, Chapter 89, Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1925, is amended and re-enacted to read as fol- 


lows: 


DISPLAY OF SIGN. 

‘Section 4. Every person, firm or corporation, who 
shall have in his possession, for the purpose of sale or who 
shall sell or offer for sale to the retail trade, gasoline for 
use in motor vehicles, shall display in a conspicuous place 
a sign stating the price at which said gasoline shall be sold 
and the amount of tax thereon. And any person, firm or 


corporation who shall neglect to so give the notice provided 
for in this Act, or who shall violate any of the provisions of 
this Act, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon con- 
viction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than 
twenty-five ($25.00) dollars, nor more than one hundred 
($100.00) dollars or by imprisonment in a County Jail for 
not less than ten days nor more than thirty days, or by both 
such fine and imprisonment.”’ 


Approved February 26, 1927. 


RRR 


37 
SESSION LAWS OF WYOMING, 1929. 
CHAPTER 139. 


ORIGINAL HOUSE BILL NO. 159. 
GASOLINE TAX. 


AN ACT to amend and re-enact Sections 2 and 3, Chapter 
73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as amended by 
Sections 1 and 2, Chapter 70, Session Laws of Wyo- 
ming, 1927, and to amend and re-enact Section 5, Chap- 
ter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as amended 
and re-enacted by Section 3, Chapter 39, Session Laws 
of Wyoming, 1925, and to amend and re-enact Section 
6, Chapter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923; pro- 
viding for a license tax on gasoline, and for the collec- 
tion and statement of the amount of tax collected; pro- 
viding for the disposition of said taxes, and fixing pen- 
alties for violation of any of the provisions of this Act. 


BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE 
STATE OF WYOMING: 


Section 1. Section 2, Chapter 73, Session Laws of 
Wyoming. 1923, as amended and re-enacted by Section 1, 
Chapter 70, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1927, is hereby 
amended and re-enacted to read as follows: 


AMOUNT OF TAX. 


‘Section 2. A license tax of four cents per gallon is 
hereby levied on all gasoline used or sold in this State after 
April 1, 1929, for domestic consumption to be collected as 
hereinafter set forth.’’ 

Section 2. Section 3, Chapter 73, Session Laws of 
Wyoming. 1923, as amended and re-enacted by Section 2, 
Chapter 70, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1927, is hereby 
amended and re-enacted to read as follows: 


IAD H¥5 iia | 


ea 
zs 


Re 
a 
re 
% 
* 
a 
+ 


7 


AB Ni Re Itty, ih Oi gs Ne Sg ST ey RORY im Saeed ah 


Batscce SLRS IG mcf ALIN Ses Sime aA PS aA A RE 


saree ARNOTT — 


38 


PAYMENT OF TAX. 

‘*Section 3. On and after April 1, 1929, each and every 
wholesaler as defined in this Act, who is now engaged or 
who may hereafter engage in his own name, or in the name 
of others, or in the name of his representatives or agents 
in this State in the sale or use of gasoline as herein defined, 
shall not later than the fifteenth of each month, render to 
the State Treasurer a statement of all gasoline sold or used 
by them in the State of Wyoming during the preceding 
ealendar month, and pay to the State Treasurer at the same 
time, the license tax of four cents per gallon on al! such 
gasoline. Said statement to the State Treasurer shall be 
upon blanks furnished by him, and shall be sworn to by the 
owner Or managing agent in the case of an indiviual, firm 
or association, by the resident general agent or attorney, in 
the case of a foreign corporation or by one of the principal 
officers in the case of a domestic corporation.’’ 


) 


Section 3. Section 5, Chapter 73, Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1925, as amended and re-enacted by Section 3, 
Chapter 89, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1925, is hereby 
amended and re-enacted to read as follows: 


DISTRIBUTION OF MONEY RECEIVED FROM TAN. 

‘*Section 5. Seventy-five per centum of all funds re- 
ceived by the State Treasurer from the gasoline license tax 
provided for in this Act, shall be placed to the credit of the 
State Highway Fund for maintenance, improvement and 
asphalt oil surfacing for State Highways and shall be ap- 
portioned between the several counties of the State in pro- 
portion to the number of miles of designated State High- 
ways therein. The remaining twenty-five per centum shall 
he apportioned by the State Treasurer between the several 
counties of the State, thirty per centum in the ratio which 


Pies Labial Tua Dh Aiaiad: PAE AES RY 


the area of the county bears to the total area of the State, 
excepting areas included in National Parks; thirty per 
centum in the ratio which the rural population of the 
county bears to the total rural population of the State ac- 
cording to the last available State or Federal census, and 
forty per centum in the ratio which the assessed valuation 
of the county bears to the latest total assessed valuation 
of the State, and on July 15th, and quarterly thereafter, he 
shall pay same to the respective county treasurers who shall 
credit the same to the county road fund; Provided that 
seventy-five per centum of all refunds or other expense 
paid by the State Treasurer according to law, shall be 
charged to the State Highway Fund, and twenty-five per 
centum to the fund to be apportioned among the counties.’’ 

Section 4. Section 6, Chapter 75, Session Laws of 
Wvoming, 1923, is hereby amended and re-enacted to read 


as follows: 


VIOLATION—PENALTY. 

‘Section 6. It shall be unlawful for any such wholesaler, 
as herein defined, of gasoline, or other products subject to 
said tax, to sell or offer the same for sale in the State of 
Wyoming while delinquent in the payment of the whole or 
any part of the tax due and payable hereunder, and any 
such wholesaler who fails or refuses to pay the tax herein- 
hefore provided for at the time the same becomes due, shall 
he liable for double the amount thereof to be recovered in a 
suit instituted by and in the name of the State of Wyoming 
in any court of competent jurisdiction, in which suit, upon 
application made by the State of Wyoming, a writ of in- 
junction may be issued against the defendant or defendants 
without requiring any bond, enjoining and restraining them 
from selling or attempting to sell or offer for sale in the 


% 
Ry 
& 


SARS 


40 


State of Wyoming any gasoline or other products subject 
to said tax, while the whole or any part of the tax due from 
such defendant remains unpaid, and in such suit the court 
may, upon application made by the State of Wyoming, ap- 
point a receiver of the property and business of the defend- 
ant, for the purpose of impounding the same as security for 
the payment of said delinquent tax and any judgment re- 
covered in said suit. The State Treasurer or his assistant 
or deputies shall have the right, during business hours, to in- 
spect the books and records of any party subject to said tax, 
for the purpose of determining the amount of the tax due and 
payable and whether the same has been paid. Any party 
violating any of the provisions of this Act shall be guilty 
of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof by any court 
of competent jurisdiction, shall be subject to a fine of not 
less than fifty dollars and not more than two hundred dol- 
lars, or to imprisonment for one month, or to both such fine 
and imprisonment. The remedies herein provided shall be 
cumulative.’’ 


Section 5. This Act shall take effect and be in force 
from and after April 1, 1929. 


Approved February 25, 1929. 


EN as Tae ME wae EE KC TREReL Ser TIONS See EOL hie Tae ikea are ae)! Veiner re 


41 
SESSION LAWS OF WYOMING. 


SpeciaL Session, 1929. 
CHAPTER 14. 

HOUSE BILL NO. 6. 

PAYMENT OF GASOLINE TAX. 


AN ACT to amend and re-enact Section 3, Chapter 73, 
Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as amended and re- 
enacted by Section 2, Chapter 70, Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1927, as amended and re-enacted by Section 
2, Chapter 139, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1929, pro- 
viding for a license tax on gasoline and for the col- 
lection thereof and providing for statements of gaso- 
line sold or used by wholesalers or users and the pay- 
ment of the tax by them; and providing for the dis- 
position of the tax from gasoline used on municipal 
air fields and fixing penalties for violation of any of the 
provisions of this Act. 


BE IT ENACTED BY THE LEGISLATURE OF THE 

STATE OF WYOMING: 

Section 1. Section 3, Chapter 73, Session Laws of 
Wyoming, 1925, as amended and re-enacted by Section 2, 
Chapter 70, Session Laws of 1927, as amended and re- 
enacted by Section 2, Chapter 139, Session Laws of Wyo- 
ming, 1929, is hereby amended and re-enacted to read 
as follows: 

‘Section 3. On and after April 1, 1929, each and every 
wholesaler as defined in this Act, who is now engaged or 
who may hereafter engage in his own name, or in the name 
of others. or in the name of his representatives or agents 
in this State, in the sale or use of gasoline as herein defined, 
shall not later than the fifteenth of each month, render to 
the State Treasurer a statement of all gasoline sold or used 
by them in the State of Wyoming during the preceding 
calendar month, and pay to the State Treasurer at the same 


*emaniy 
Kea 


42 


time, the license tax of four cents per gallon on all such 
gasoline. Said statement to the State Treasurer shall be 
upon blanks furnished by him, and shall be sworn to by the 
owner or managing agent in the case of an individual, firm 
or association, by the resident general agent or attorney, in 
the case of a foreign corporation or by one of the principal 
officers in the case of a domestic corporation. Every person, 
firm or corporation, who shall use any gasoline in this State, 
upon which the said tax has not been paid by any whole- 
saler in this State, shall, on or before the 15th day of each 
calendar month, beginning with the first calendar month 
after this Act has become effective, render a true statement 
to the State Treasurer, duly signed and sworn to, and ac- 
company such statement with the payment of a tax of four 
cents per gallon on all gasoline as shown by such statement 
to have been used by him; provided that before making the 
distribution of funds provided for in Section 1 hereof, the 
State Treasurer shall pay over all funds received from the 
gasoline license tax on gasoline used at any municipal air 
field to the city or town where such air field is located, to 
be used for the maintenance and improvement of such air 
field.’’ 

Section 2. Any party violating any of the provisions 
of this Act shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon con- 
viction thereof by any court of competent jurisdiction, shall 
be subject to a fine of not less than fifty dollars and not 
more than two hundred dollars, or to imprisonment for one 
month, or to both such fine and imprisonment. 

Section 3. All Acts or parts of Acts in conflict with this 
Act are hereby repealed. 

Section 4. This Act shall take effect and be in force 
from and after its passage. 


Approved December 23, 1929. 


43 


Section 3, Chapter 73, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1923, 
as amended by Section 1, Chapter 14, Session Laws of Wyo- 
ming, 1929, Special Session, and Section 5, Chapter 73, Ses- 
sion Laws of Wyoming, 1923, as amended by Section 3, Chap- 
ter 139, Session Laws of Wyoming, 1929, were amended by 
the Wyoming legislature in 1931. The 1931 Session Laws are 
not included because they were enacted subsequent to the in- 
stitution of this suit. In the Appendix to the petition for writ 
of certiorari the Wyoming Gasoline Tax Law, as amended 
by the 1931 Session Laws, is set forth. 


a cre Re git SPS MR IERT SS CRs RRS ED RT ae as Se 
CATER tne Hit Sipe FING CAR a ea a eae: 
Se aan aE a i a ca i i Fe on ene aE 


SE a ee Sao 


Ree RTS 


eae ete 
SS Shae sit SHE 


ee] 


— pp. l+2 


SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES. 


No. 571.—OcrToser TERM, 1932. 


William H. Edelman, State Treasurer ;| 
Harry R. Weston, State Treasurer;! On Writ of Certiorari to 


The City of Cheyenne, et al., Peti-| the United States Cir- 
tioners, cuit Court of Appeals 
vs. for the Tenth Circuit. 


Boeing Air Transport, Ine. 
[April 17, 1933.] 


*, Justice pred delivered _ opinion of the Court. 


acl Resi w Blew ; 

Respondent, a rporation operating airplanes in 
Wyoming, ROA this suit in equity in the District Court of 
Wyoming against petitioners, state tax officials, and the cities of 
Cheyenne and Rock Springs, to enjoin the collection of a state ex- 
cise tax levied upon the use of gasoline by respondent within the 
State, as a violation of the commerce clause of the Constitution. 
As respondent waived relief by interlocutory injunction, see Smith 
vy. Wilson, 273 U. S. 388, 391, the case was tried before a single 
judge who upheld the tax and dismissed the case on the merits. 
51 F. (2d) 130. On appeal the Court of Appeals for the Tenth 
Circuit reversed the decree and directed that the petitioners be 
enjoined from assessing the tax on gasoline procured by respon- 
dent by ‘‘purchases completed outside the State of Wyoming 
and then brought into that State and used in its planes in inter- 
state commerce’’. 61 F. (2d) 319. This Court granted certiorari. 


—U.S 
The statute’ levies a ‘‘license tax of four cents per gallon 
on all gasoline used or sold in this State . . . for domestic con- 


sumption’’ and requires every ‘‘wholesaler’’ engaged in the ‘‘sale 
or use of gasoline’’ within the State to report to the State treasurer 
each month all the gasoline ‘‘sold or used’’ by it in the State, and 
to pay the tax upon it. Gasoline ‘‘exported or sold for exportation 


1Wyoming Laws of 1929, c. 14, amending Laws of 1929, ce. 139; Laws of 
1927, c. 70; Laws of 1925, ec. 89; Laws of 1923, ¢. 73. 


a 


2 Edelman et al. vs. Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 


from the State’’ is exempted from the tax. <A ‘‘wholesaler’’ is de- 
fined as any person (1) who ‘‘imports or causes to be imported gas- 
oline . . . forsale in the State . . . to the jobber or consumer, 
or to the persons . . . who, in turn, sell to the jobber or consumer’’, 
or (2) who ‘‘ produces, refines, manufactures, blends or compounds 
gasoline’’ in Wyoming ‘‘for use, sale or distribution in this State’’. 
In addition the statute provides that ‘‘every person . . who 
shall use any gasoline in this State upon which the said oon has 
not been paid by any wholesaler in this State,’’ shall render a like 
statement and pay a like tax. 

Respondent maintains an airplane service for the transportation 
in interstate commerce of passengers, mail and express with airports 
at Cheyenne and Rock Springs. It purchases gasoline both within 
and without the State, which it intermingles and stores in tanks 
at the two airports. It pays the tax without objection omé#hepase- 
pt been pais bethe- erhetteater-tasrelies on all gasoline which it 
sells within the State at its airports or withdraws from the tanks 
for local use. But it contends, and the court below held, that the 
tax cannot validly be applied to the gasoline imported from out- 
side the State, stored in tanks at the airports and used for ‘‘filling”’ 
the interstate airplanes in which it is eventually consumed. 

The opinion below leaves us uncertain whether the injunction 
was granted upon the ground that the taxing statute does not, in 
any event, apply to gasoline purchased without the state, if not 
sold within it, or upon the ground that the taxation of gasoline 
purchased outside the state and used at respondent’s airports to 
‘*fill’’ its interstate planes, though authorized by the statute, is a 
prohibited burden on interstate commerce. But the bill of complaint 
sought no relief on the ground that the statute does not apply to 
the gasoline so used and no question of the applicability of the tax 
is argued here. Issue is joined on the only question raised by the 
pleadings, whether the taxation of the gasoline which respondent 
withdraws from storage and uses for ‘‘filling’’ its planes imposes 
an unconstitutional burden on interstate commerce. Hence we 
confine our decision to that question. 

As the statute has been administratively construed and applied, 
the tax is not levied upon the consumption of gasoline in furnish- 
ing motive power for respondent’s interstate planes. The tax is ap- 


Ee LE BLT IE IE OF IT TR LL I Es TEEN —— 


—— 


Edelman et al. vs. Boeing Air Transport, Inc. 3 


plied to the stored gasoline as it is withdrawn from the storage tanks 
at the airport and placed in the planes. No tax is collected for 
gasoline consumed in respondent ’s planes either on coming into the 
State or on going out. It is at the time of withdrawal alone that 
‘“gse’’ is measured for the purposes of the tax. The stored gasoline 
is deemed to be ‘‘used’’ within the State and therefore subject to 
the tax, when it is withdrawn from the tanks. Compare No. 176, 
Nashville, Chattanooga & St. Louis Ry. v. Wallace, decided Febru- 
ary 6, 1933; Gregg Dyeing Co. v. Query, 286 U. 8. 472; Hart Re- 
fineries v. Harmon, 278 U. 8. 499; Bowman v. Continental Ou Co., 
256 U. S. 642. 

A State may validly tax the ‘‘use’’ to which gasoline is put in 
withdrawing it from storage within the State, and placing it 
in the tanks of the planes, notwithstanding that its ultimate 
function is to generate motive power for carrying on interstate 
ecommerce. Such a tax cannot be distinguished from that con- 
sidered and upheld in No. 176, Nashville, Chattanooga & St. 


Louis Ry. v. Wallace, supra. There it was pointed out that ‘‘there %, 
can be no valid objection to the taxation of the exercise of e 
any right or power incident to . . . ownership of the gaso- =) 
line which falls short of a tax directly imposed on its use in inter- eo 


state commerce, deemed forbidden in Helson v. Kentucky’’, 279 #3 
U. S. 245. As the exercise of the powers taxed, the storage and Sis 
withdrawal from storage of the gasoline, was complete before inter- ‘ 
state commerce began, it was held that the burden of the tax was f 
too indirect and remote from the function of interstate commerce, 2 
to transgress constitutional limitations. 4 

Despite the fact that the statute as applied is identical in 
operation with that sustained in No. 176, Nashville, Chattanooga 
& St. Louis Ry. v. Wallace, supra, respondent contends that as the 
statute is written, the tax is one on the consumption of gasoline in 
propelling its airplanes in interstate commerce, invalid under 
Helson v. Kentucky, supra. In that case a Kentucky statute taxing 
the use of gasoline was applied to that purchased and placed in the 
tanks of a ferry boat outside the State for use in operating it in 
interstate commerce. The tax, which was levied only with respect 
to the gasoline consumed while the ferry boat was within the State, 
was held to be invalid as, in effect, a direct tax on the privilege of 
carrying on interstate commerce. 


SEI eb aera peer eters ee PRE Ao EINE FEES Ut 4 2 PE a 


Edelman et al. vs. Boeing Atr Transport, Inc. 


But the officers of Wyoming, charged with the enforcement of 
the taxing statute, are giving no such application to it as was 
given to that in Helson v. Kentucky, supra, and it is not suggested 
that they will. All that has been done or threatened by them, 
under their interpretation of the statute, infringes no constitutional 
right of the complainant. In the circumstances, no case is pre- 
sented, either by pleadings or proof, calling on a federal court of 
equity to rule upon the correctness of some other construction 
which may never be adopted by the state administrative officials 
or by the state courts. 


4 


Reversed. 


Mr. Justice VAN DevanTer took no part in the consideration or 
decision of this case. 


A true copy. 
Test : 


Clerk, Supreme Court, U. 8. 


